ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2587	Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask you to take your seat. I'll open the 34. Meeting of the National Council. It has been called up for today by more than one fifth of the honourable Members on account of a business-regulatory request. ==References====External links== Meeting of 27 and 28. ==References====External links== Meeting of 28. June has remained up-to-date and without opposition. For today's session as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Maderthaner and Schöll. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2621	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2792	I also say that the desire for a current hour has been withdrawn. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2816	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 and 4 to 9 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are objections raised? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of an urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2838	I declare that Mr Magistrate. Mr Schweitzer called for urgent consideration of the written question to Mr Bundeskanzler on comprehensive reduction of privileges which was put into the agenda before the entry into the agenda. Since this desire is aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time, it is in accordance with the provisions of § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the beginning of the urgent debate on this question at 4 p.m. Let's go into the agenda. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2867	Consensus on the design and duration of the debates on the whole agenda was reached in the Presidential Conference. Accordingly, for the debate on item 1 of the agenda and for the joint debate on points 2 and 3, a block speaking time of eight "Vienna hours" has been agreed. This gives rise to the following speaking times: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. Furthermore, for the joint debate on points 4 to 9, a maximum of two speakers per group with a speaking time of no more than 10 minutes has been established. The final decision on these proposals is the responsibility of the National Council. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This proposal is therefore unanimously approved and adopted. I would add that the SPÖ and ÖVP groups have announced further voluntary time limits on speaking time to a number of agenda items which we will also take into account by stopping time measurement. 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 245/A by Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades concerning a federal law which amends the Federal Constitutional Law, the Incompatibilities Act 1983, the Contracting Law, the Parliament Staff Law, the Constitutional Court Law, the Civil Service Law 1979, the Merchant Law 1956, the Contractual Service Act 1948, the Richter Service Act 1984, the Agricultural and Forestry Service Law 1985 and the Federal Forestry Law 1986 (Relation Reform Act), the Amendment 69/A (E) of the Deputy Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning the political privilege of early retirement, motion 101/A (E) by Deputies Mag. Helmut Peterund Comrades concerning the Law on Employment and Civil Service Law, motion 109/A of Member of the MMag. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Receipts of the Supreme Institutions and the Incompatibilities Act, the motion 71/A (E) of Deputies Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning political privilege, the motion 105/A of Deputies Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning a federal law that amends the contract law, the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Richterdienstgesetz, the Landeslehrer Service Law 1984 and the Landeslehrer Service Law 1985, the application 106/A of Deputies Mag. Johann Ewald Stadlerand comrades concerning a federal law amending the Civil Service Law 1979 (BG 1979), the Landeslehrer-Denstrechtsgesetz (LDG 1984) and the Landes- und Forstwirtschafts Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz 1985 (LLDG 1985) and the motion 117/A (E) of Deputies Dr. Jörg Haiderand comrades concerning the reduction of political privileges (249 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2935	We now reach 1st. Agenda item: This is the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendments Nos 245/A by Mr Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades concerning the Relevation Reform Act, 69/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Stadler and comrades on political privileges and early retirement; 101/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Peter and comrades concerning contract law and civil service law, 109/A of Deputies Dr. Petrovic and Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Pensions of the Supreme Institutions and the Incompatibilities Act, Amendment No 71/A (E) by Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades on political privilege; 105/A by Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades concerning a federal law which amends the contract law, the civil service law and other laws, motion 106/A by Mr Mag. Stadler and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Civil Service Law and other laws, and Amendment 117/A (E) by Dr Haider and comrades on the reduction of political privileges, 249 of the supplements. Mr. Dr. Kräber has been elected rapporteur. He'll open our consultations. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e2978	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I will return the report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 245/A on the reform of relations and on the amendments 69/A (E), 101/A (E), 109/A, 71/A (E), 105/A, 106/A and 117/A (E). ==References====External links== Negotiating in the Constitutional Committee on July 1996. The draft Relating Reform Act, in the form of an amendment, has found the majority in the Committee. The applications did not find a majority. Two resolutions were also adopted by a majority. A motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mrs Frisenschlager, has not found a majority. As a result of its deliberations, the Constitutional Committee proposes: 1. give constitutional approval to the draft law, 2. adopt the two resolutions; and 3. take note of the written report. As there are speeches, I would like to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3021	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. We are entering the discussion. For this debate, as already announced, a block speaking time of eight "Vienna hours" has been decided, so that the following speaking times arise – I can repeat this –: SPÖ 120 minutes, ÖVP 112 minutes, Freedom 104 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72 minutes. Mr Dr. Haider spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give him this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3051	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on a novel of the referee law is another chapter of an infinite history that I have been living with for a long time as a Member of the Austrian Parliament. I was already involved in 1980 when there were the first confrontations on the question of unemployed income, full taxation of political remuneration or not. I therefore know very well that this is a problem which is not easy to solve, but it is, on the other hand, in times when Parliament and the political parties are calling on the people to show severance, not very skillfully to bring about an improvement in the reference situation for the mandates, but at the same time to give the population massive burdens. This is also felt by many Members of the Government, and they have therefore not understood that K & K, Kostelka and Khol, once again as elephants in the porcelain shop, have tried to whip through something which is not to be whipped through, because they have no moral justification for increasing references, if at the same time the small man is massively misguided. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is simply a bit of the spirit of the cashiers, who always prevails, although I admit that the talks with Members of all political groups are quite clear that everyone has a dissatisfaction with this question. If you're on the go, Mr Kostelka – I was in Tyrol yesterday for example and I've had a number of events with economic operators, business visits – then you have to say honestly: The population is outraged! The population is very much outraged by what is happening at the political level at the moment, and this, I believe, is not good for Parliament and for the reputation of politics. The population is outraged by the constant attempts to make improvements for politicians under the pretext of a reduction in privileges. When you were told, Mr Kostelka, that over the years you had received a second income as a Council of Parliament of around 40 000 S, you wanted to secure exactly the 40 000 S you needed to make a compensation, so to speak, for the increase in the contributions of the Clubmen to those of the State Secretary's level. Do you think that this is a confidence-building measure when the population sees how politicians are trying to correct it again? – You have not only been caught by us, but by your own party president, who has also felt it immoral to bring about such a solution, that although it is said to the citizen that he must be saved, that he is shortened among the families – but the Lord’s politicians are greatly increasing the references! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That was also addressed to you in newspaper comments. In the "Tyroler Zeitung" Stefan Kappacher wrote in a comment: "The Blamage for Kostelka and Khol could not be bigger, it was preprogrammed." Ulrich Stocker of the "Small Newspaper" sends you a comment: "The new regulation of political references is a disgusting eye-catching." That was also the reason why the Federal Chancellor and Party President broke the brake at the last minute when the Liberals requested the special meeting on this subject, and he said: Back to the start, we need to talk again about whether we can even imagine what we have planned for people. This action has shown how important it is that there is a large opposition here in the House, which through the right to convene extra-tourist meetings has prevented worse in that country, especially as regards the reference system. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course you can now say: We wouldn't have needed you liberals, we'll fix that anyway. But even in the ÖVP central organ "Volksblatt" Walter Salzmann writes: "...it was a good part of the liberals who, with a request for a special meeting on the subject of political relations, put pressure on the coalition parties." . So there seems to be the impression in the EIA that there is a very good opposition, which with special sessions has the opportunity to fight against bad regulations and political privileges accordingly. But that is exactly what you want to stop – we are going to talk about it at another item on the agenda today – by saying: We now take the opportunity of special sitting and limit it, limit the speaking time in the course of a reform of the Rules of Procedure, so that we can cross it with our majority as government parties. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a process that will not please you for too long. To make parliamentarianism impossible in this way is actually a weakness of government parties who seem to have no more good arguments! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I should like to remind you that, in 1986, Mr Khol himself referred to a debate on the Rules of Procedure: "No government is interested in a strong Parliament, in a controlling Parliament." And on top of that: "...we have very, very few session days," said Mr Khol, and... "I don't know any European Parliament with so few plenary sessions." Khol also said that "the speaking time of MEPs is far too short". – This was said by Mr Khol in 1986 to read on page 12 915 of the Stenographical Protocol. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The wonderful transformation of the Khol!]] In other words, what Dr. Khol did in those days, he doesn't want to do anymore. He's changed, his party's in the government, and now it says: If we are going over it, now there must be no opposition, now there must be no more speaking time, now we have to shorten it so that there is no more opposition control. Even Mr Wabl said in the last reform of the Rules of Procedure that a reduction in speaking time was a "attack to parliamentaryism". . He is now even agreeing that the Court of Auditors should introduce the limitation of speaking time and that it will help to make opposition control in Parliament worse instead of improving it. In fact, you have really become a blind-daughter of the big-coalitionary policy in this country. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: You haven't read it!]] But Mrs Schmidt also gave me 7th. September 1992, when she was still a liberal, wrote a letter saying: "Dear Jörg! The speaking time is certainly a sensitive area that requires a balance of goods between free mandate and economic resolution of the agenda. I just mean, dear Jörg, that after twelve speakers – three for the FPÖ – there should not be the possibility to limit to 5 minutes of speaking time. In the event of a block of speech, it is necessary to ensure that the opposition parties are given time in order not to be disadvantaged to the extent that the electoral debate has been held.' [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And it goes on to say in this letter: "Dear Jörg! I also have a special concern about the Committee of Inquiry. He should become a minority right and be enforced by 20 MEPs." [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here!]] . Now you agree that less parliamentary control, less debate, less speaking time, less auditing is possible. You should go inside whether you really did that with good conscience. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Back to what Dr. Vrannitzky did. When we asked for the special meeting, he said: Now I have to get on the brake, otherwise it will be difficult! – and he buffed back Mr. Kostelka and Mr. Khol. But it turns out like always: It is being renegotiated, just as the chancellor has already announced in the health insurance reform – and in the end everything remains with the old. There will be a higher fee for politicians. They will have to explain to the people why the Structural Adjustment Act refers to economic deterioration, but the honourable Member can also charge fees in addition to a flat-rate compensation that he already has. Do not forget that to the economic operators, every traveling merchant who travels through Austria! Restriction: They are not his possibilities, but allow him to calculate the fees as they do in the economy. Then it would be credible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In this way, however, higher charges remain less effective in the process of reforming the Rules of Procedure, which will force Parliament to work. Less work, more expenses – this is a "clean" solution, a solution that the Austrians will not really be enthusiastic about! Second point: The multifunctionaries will not be restricted again. They continue to sit in Parliament: the social security officials, the health insurance officials, the trade union officials, the workers' chamber officials. I do not want to list all those who sit in here as multifunctionaries, although you have been promising to clarify this area for many years. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Especially you should be quiet, as mayor and multifunctional, dear colleague from Burgenland! The unemployed income will not be limited either, for, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Wabl: Give off your Bear Valley at last! This is also an unemployed income!]] That's not a parliamentary area, dear friend, but I'd like to send you a little firewood if you don't have to deal with your political board and your parliamentary relationship! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: An unemployed income is that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The question of how to regulate unemployment income is serious. A Commission will decide whether a Member has a job, where he is supposed to earn something, or whether he should be chosen. The Upper Austrians know that. Kukacka has this in his own country group, for example, Mr Pallwein-Pretner, in order not to have to quote it from Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] Mr Pallwein-Prettner has been exempt from the service for about ten years, dear Mr Kukacka! He is a member of the ÖVP Landtagsreiter in Upper Austria and has now been withdrawn because he has not worked as a primary school director in school for ten years, but has been in receipt of unemployed income. He now gets a placerl in the National School Council so that he has a desk there and the legitimacy exists that he can cash. If this is the solution to unemployment, then – I can tell you today – this is the reason for the next debates that we are going to have here in the House because this is an alibi treatment, how you want to solve things. Do you think that Mr Dolinschek, who works in a private company, can only earn a schilling if he does not really do work there? This control is ensured because the operation can only do what it contributes to the earnings, and therefore only in the public sector can it be paid where employment is actually provided, and it must not, as is the case now, all these services are to be created. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Steindl: What about the farmer?]] Even the colleague Bauer must justify himself in front of your "black" section head and in front of a "red" department leader if he does not perform his work. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not suppose that love for the liberals is suddenly so great that one wants to give them a jobless income. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosemarie Bauer.]] Mrs Bauer, please be quiet. Your school, to which you are director, has already been abolished, so you really shouldn't have a big lip in this debate! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's resistance everywhere. Don't pretend you really agree with this scheme! Even the Second President of the National Council, Neisser, who is also one of the privileged knights of this nation, who has also gained unemployed income, now suddenly has a bit of conscience and explains in a newspaper interview: It would be a mistake if official activity were to be incompatible with political activity. - Why is it only now? Why do these ideas always come when one is not so properly affected when one can't be caught so properly? This is a strange one, and I therefore believe that we are not making a good regulation today, otherwise Mrs Ederer would not have said that there is also massive resistance in the SPÖ. Many phone calls, protests, she said – only then has she been rebuffed and said yesterday, after getting her back on line: Well, I agree now, because it is a regulation that I can support. – And that after she gave a newspaper interview before, where she criticized all this! It seems that solidarity with the cashiers is even greater than solidarity with the citizens, and that is the worst. Why does Mr Ederer now demand disclosure? - She could do it. Since 1988, according to our popular desire, we have called for an disclosure of the references. That has been rejected by you over and over again. Now come suddenly You insist that it would be a fine thing to make a statement of the references. I should like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in 1988... [[Abg. Wabl: You have always voted against it in the disclosure of the references! You voted against it in 1988, and you were against it in 1989! You're a bear-"hypod"!]] With a political pensioner and an official pensioner, I really don't give up today, Mr. Wabl! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In 1988, after the Sallaberger scandal in the SPÖ, Vranitzky took place on 21 January 1988. In December 1988: It is necessary to restore the cleanliness in the party. And this cleanliness is produced by the fact that he has issued a multipoint program. This multi-point programme states: There must be no more unemployed income, there must only be a paid political function. And this is being monitored so strictly, Vranitzky said that the 440 candidates on the list for the 1990 National Council election can only be candidates if they fulfil the four-point programme of the Federal Chancellor and SPÖ chairman. Now I wonder how then Mr Novotny believes that he could be on this list, which even against the law for a long time has collected his income as an official to 100 percent. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Look here! Incredible!]] – Against the law, although he has decided to do so! How can it, if there is this exam, be that Novotny on the list then? How can Mr Fischer be on the list if this examination had really worked? And how is it possible, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, that you are so excited about the conduct of social funds that the liberals have that you have on 19 November? In May 1990, your Central Secretary, Marizzi, announced: In 1989 the SPÖ included in its organizational statute the provision that socialist officials can only be paid more for a political function? - One! – Any further references must be transferred to non-profit funds, Marizzi recalled. This regulation is a reality for the SPÖ. I can kindly ask you to take the floor today and tell us what has become of this fund. What has become of this fund? You're talking about several funds you're setting up. Mr Fischer obviously knows nothing about it; he has double-cashed his salary. Mr Kostelka knows nothing about it; he has double his salary further. Mr Novotny knows nothing about it; he has double-cashed his salary. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That's totally wrong! That's a premise!]] So tell us: Who paid for your funds, ladies and gentlemen? Give information and open this secret! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's it, ladies and gentlemen, that's... [[Abg. Wabl: What does the Brauneder know about the Social Fund?]] That must be paid in there, of course! Ladies and gentlemen! There will be a very large medium for you today, under the supervision of a notary, to report on the conduct of free social initiatives. We can provide information about every schilling under the supervision of a notary, but I do not know what happened to your funds, which is the point here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since 1989 these funds have been available – but there has never been an accountable report! None of the representatives of the SPÖ, who are double-occupiers, know something about the existence of these funds. One dwindles over difficulties and consciously says the untruth. According to the EU lie, after the pension lie, the fund lie is still being made into the political discussion by telling the Austrians something else than actually. Ladies and gentlemen! We know that this is a difficult issue. However, we also know that you all have a bad conscience in this system, otherwise President Fischer would not have to speak for a second time at a "time in Figure 2" broadcast, as if he had only thought in the end that he actually had a second income, which he wanted to announce. It is absurd that the head of Parliament is at the same time his own employee and then pays for it. He always meets at the meeting in the early days, then the President makes up with Heinz Fischer who works today: the Council of Parliament – or the President takes over the work for the Council of Parliament. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] The same applies to Mr Kostelka. He is also his own boss in the club and his own employee. Ladies and gentlemen, an absurd situation! [[Abg. Wabl: The referee is the brown-eater! Arbitrator is the brown-eater in the morning!]] I know, Mr Wabl, you have become the defender of the great coalition. You have today, with your approval of the Rules of Procedure, become the mandatory defender of the great coalition. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Defender of duty is nothing unhonorful!]] Or let's take someone else: In Carinthia, you have a chairperson who is always very strict in all developments in politics. She has been a teacher for years, has so many lessons that the children can no longer be taught, but is full of her salary and is a countryman. The colleague Ambrozy as a socialist clubman has been granted an EU unit in the state government and refuses to give any information as to why he and how he works there as an official, for that is his personal refuge. This has happened now, in times of the savings package, ladies and gentlemen! And all these are things that seem very unwelcome. Or: Mr Novotny's justification is that he did not know exactly whether to pay 100 percent or 75 percent as an official. Mr Novotny! You've agreed to the law. You must have known from the decision that this could be 75 percent and not 100 percent for a university professor. People just don't take that away anymore. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That was a writing of the quaesture! That's totally wrong what you're saying! They're just saying the untruth!]] Mr Novotny! I just read the statement you made. Then you have to correct it if it does not match the truth. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: I came from me...!]] You said you first asked in the quaestur whether it was 100 or 75 percent. So: A Member of Parliament who passes laws himself and then goes to the quaesture to ask what is right now is disqualified for this post, dear colleague! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This is the untruth! They deliberately say the untruth!]] You have the opportunity to make an actual correction, then I quote your own article in the paper, a literal quote that you have not contradicted until the hour. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: You're not worth it!]] And I'll tell you something: It is a suspicion that you do not really want all these regulations. In 1989, Parliament has already learned from the Federal Chancellor's mouth that there will be a comprehensive arrangement, involving all the social partners, in the wake of the Sallaberger case. There he once issued nine points, and then he issued four points that are important: no unemployment income, no one can earn more than the Federal Chancellor – but that did not go through to the mayor of Vienna Häupl, for example, who until a few months ago earned 330 000 S, and that did not go through to other top socialist officials. And then the case of Zacharias "passes" in 1990. – It is promised again: Now everything is being fixed, the credibility is restored, only a paid political function! – But today, Mrs Hostasch, Mr Nürnberger and Mr Verzetznich are sitting in there, and they all have several paid political functions. – I don’t care about them, but I’m just saying: Then they must not ask for it or promise it! In 1992 there was the National Bank scandal. – The Federal Chancellor again promised to make things right. To date, not even the question of SPÖ contributions to the Oesterreichische Nationalbank has been clarified – let alone the question of why employees of the National Bank receive 105 percent of the final pension as a pension with 2 percent of their pension contribution, while the small pensioner is still being "knocked up" by the fact that there is no money in the state funds. Then comes 1996, and then it must be remembered that the same income pyramid promise of the great coalition had already been made in Parliament in 1989. You have already decided that there should be such an income pyramid. You already said that everyone should be included. – But come with your income pyramid They do not seem to continue over the years; there were the old Egyptians in pyramid construction even faster than you did with the construction of your income pyramid. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, will probably already have the status of political mummy before the income pyramid in this country will really work. On the other hand, with the loads – and that's what the population sees – you're always very fast. There are retroactive laws being made, something new will be introduced overnight. Only then, when it comes to creating a credible, transparent regime for political relations, will it take years and decades, and there is no end to the abuses that are under discussion here. I'm really wondering: Why, ladies and gentlemen, is there no retroactiveness in policy-making? – You have just passed retroactive tax laws for all parts of the population, but retroactive laws for those who have over-cashed - Kostelka and others - not yet. What if we made a retroactive law and said that there is what has actually been wrong to repay? – That would be a clean solution, but no one will come to this idea now, because there it is for you yourself; but if it hits the population, one makes retroactive laws. Or: It is agreed to a travel time compensation as an additional fee, so that you get paid from home on the journey to Parliament. Explain Once you have the worker who has to take the same route that he does not get anything when he goes to work, but you get 247 s per hour of compensation! This is your policy for the little man, ladies and gentlemen: that the little one will not get anything, while the Great 247 S will be alone for the journey to Parliament and, incidentally, the full compensation for the travel costs that have actually been incurred. – But a parking tax for the employees will be introduced! Those who, when they arrive at the workplace, have a parking lot, must also pay 200 S parking tax. All of this is not very coherent in itself! [[Call at the SPÖ:Who introduces this?]] The Minister of Finance introduces this! The ÖVP even asks how this is to be handled now, because in its own coalition there is apparently already confusion about these states. Or: Why will the time-limits for politicians be abolished only in 1997? – So that Kostelka & Co have another breath break? There was no break for the burden on the population! They have been introduced retroactively and subsequently! Why is there a parallel between flat-rate payment and – anyway – the possibility of charging fees for politicians? Why is this not for the ordinary citizen in economic life? Why does a minister have a pension claim in his pocket after four years? Those ministers who have decided on this government proposal are the same ones who here in Parliament demand that pension expectations be increased, for example for women, so that they are not sent to retirement too early. All of this is really not very coherent anymore, you have to make this accusation happen. That is why I am telling you that the population has a different expectation. It expects a scheme which prohibits unemployed people's income. We would go along with making this absolute restriction on unemployment income, we would also support you if you did not carry out additional fees increases. Please explain this to the people that we now want to raise the fees at a time when it is supposed to have to be saved! That's not logical! Even if it is pleasant in individual cases, it is no longer acceptable to political-moral. These are consumed elites who enforce such measures here. They also use themselves – I cannot spare you this accusation – at all levels merciless of the political system when it comes to the supply of their own party guests. I have the case of a city council here – so that we can get out of Parliament once. [[Call the Liberal Forum:Braunder!]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] The Socialists will soon be laughing, because Toni Leikam knows this councillor! It is a socialist councillor of Wolfsberg, Dieter Krusch, Sportstadtrat. This sports city council is pumperlg’sund; suddenly it becomes 30 because of inability to serve. Retirement of June: Inability to serve without ever having a day of illness! He's pumping'sund! [[Abg. Leikam: That's what the doctor decides!]] Just because this is still favourable with the early pensions, he goes once – but of course remains a sports councillor, because he is healthy enough for that. But he now receives an official's pension as a national servant, because he is still quickly retired. And the best thing is: ==References====External links== In June, he is now still receiving the grade 8 of the service class VII of the B usage group. And what's "super": ==References== April 1998 – You really need to watch out! – this Mr. Krusch, sports councillor in a healthy state, celebrates his 40th anniversary of service. And because he has his 40-year anniversary in two years – for which he no longer wants to wait, which is why he goes to early retirement as an official – the country of Carinthia pays him his anniversary fee of 194,020 p.m., so that before he retires, he will also receive the anniversary allowance on the occasion of his 40-year anniversary as compensation. – Everything is actually secured! This is how you use the cash registers – not just here in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Where your party guests are concerned, there is nothing too expensive for you to pay the taxpayers' money, but the little man should pay with new taxes outside! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that's the horrific thing about this system! Just as you do with this sports city council, how you can use hundreds of thousands of schillings on anniversary money, because simply party friends have to be provided, you also assign the fees here and arrange a policy-making system that will be accessible again in itself. – You can now judge for yourself whether this is still acceptable. I believe that the SPÖ is becoming more and more an asylum for morally homeless people who are no longer able to recognize that people's representatives actually have to accept the same conditions as those of the people governed by these politicians. If you want to, you must not understand today's decisions. This also applies to the Austrian People's Party, Ladies and gentlemen, because the ÖVP is involved in these things in the same way and has also repeatedly announced that it would carry out the principle of "only a paid political function and no unemployment income" and much more. As a matter of fact, there has also been no real change there. Therefore, in a motion for a resolution, which will be submitted in addition to our salary structure law, we demand a disclosure – and it will be very interesting whether you are going with at least today on the issue of the disclosure of political references. [[Abg. Wabl: You could have voted in 1987, Mr Haider! They were always against the disclosure!]] We have always supported our applications very sustainably. We have not made the kneefall before the red and black coalition – as you have done in connection with the reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Where are they, your requests for disclosure? Show me one!]] Mr Wabl! One who decides against the opposition with the government parties is no longer Wabl, but a "Wappler", a political "Wappler", I can tell you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Move at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wabl shows the speaker the "Stinkefinger".]] – That’s not the fine English way either, but you have become a political “Wappler”, I can tell you today. Ladies and gentlemen! We call for the disclosure of the political references of all, before the start of the service and after leaving. [[Abg. Wabl: Show me a single request for disclosure, Mr Haider!]] We demand that the multifunctionaries be restricted. We demand that unemployment incomes be reduced. We demand that the fee scheme be withdrawn and that the previous scheme be maintained. We demand that pensions and redundancies be eliminated because parliamentary activity is not a professional activity. And we also demand, in our motion for a resolution, that there be a reduction or a relinquishing of the party's tax so that Members' compensations are not burdened with things which the honourable Member cannot influence. These are things that have always been proposed by you in the debate. We will take a very close look at whether you are going with us today in these things, which you all have proposed, or in turn you are going the old way, namely the continuation of this line which you have put down here in your request. [[Abg. Wabl: Show me a request where you are for disclosure, Mr Haider! Just a small request, where you are for disclosure!]] I'll give you a whole package, my dear colleague, for your money. [[Abg. Wabl: I just want one request, Mr Haider, not a package!]] You don't read that, and that's the problem! But it's not our responsibility if you can't read! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Just show me one request! A little request!]] Normal screaming It's always at midnight! So you should reduce your pace a little! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: A little request! I'm asking for this!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is our concern to encourage you today to take advantage of your own insecurity, which you have in connection with the present legal situation, and not at once to be subject to the constraints of the club, but rather to vote as a free Member, as one or another has already anticipated, because this regulation is bad and ultimately must be represented by those Members who are not at all convinced that it is correct. [[Abg. Wabl: Such a little one!]] It is not a solution to say: I am going ahead of the vote to save the government group a problem. – Mr Posch, as a Member of Parliament, you should have an opinion! Mr Posch, you should have an opinion on this subject as a "threefold person". [[Abg. Arbitrator: We will do this with a mark on the poll!]] Indeed, they are a classic case which, with the votes against here in Parliament, could make reparation by bringing this amendment to the attention regime and increasing the pressure, as the President said, to make a comprehensive arrangement in which the social partners in which the chambers are included, as well as the social security schemes, and in particular, where a transparent reference system emerges, which is also comprehensible to the population at the time of the tax package. [[Abg. Want: Everyone doesn't have a bear valley!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3682	Mr Nürnberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw his attention to the rules of business and give him the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3706	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has repeatedly claimed that I have several incomes from political activity. I'm correcting: That's not true. I refer an income as a Member of Parliament to the National Council, another income from my main activity as Chairman of the Metal Trade Union, Mining, Energy, and with this I am ÖGB employees. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an unpolitical activity?]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Does the union not make a policy?]] And I repeat: I do not involve any meeting fees: neither in the Vienna regional health fund or elsewhere, because I have voluntarily renounced them for years.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3755	Mr Novotny spoke in favour of a further actual correction. Same conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3779	Mr President. High house! Since I am very sensitive to questions of personal honour, I would like to make the following correction: Mr Haider has claimed that I would have wrongly taken up 100 per cent of my salary as a university professor. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: That's right!]] To this end, I would like to say: An error of the quaesture that I did not owe was corrected by a letter written by myself. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals]] That is, I did not commit any wrongful actions from myself. The amounts I've received will be refunded. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You will be paid back continuously! I would also like to say: This question was already the subject of a request from the FPÖ, which was put to the attention of the honourable Member at the time. I have made available all the documents to Mr President-in-Office of the Council at the time, and he has therefore withdrawn this request as unfounded. I very much hope, Mr Haider, that you will bring about the same fairness as Mr President-in-Office of the Council at the time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3829	Mrs Hostasch spoke on another actual correction. [[Movement with the liberals.]] I give it to her and draw attention to the rules of business.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3859	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Dr. Haider has claimed that I have several paid political functions. I note that this claim is wrong. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] I have a reference from my working relationship with the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is an unpolitical activity?]] This is a working relationship due to a service contract. I also have a political reference from my mandate to the National Council. Otherwise there will be no further references for me.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3901	Mr Posch spoke on another corrective point. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3925	Mr Haider has indeed claimed that I had three incomes. This claim is not true, it is false. A procedure against the "Kronen-Zeitung" has already been decided in the first instance. I notice: In my first period, as a member of the National Council, I had a 75 per cent official income, and I made available to the extra part that I could not handle, charitative associations. - That's the one thing. The other thing is: I was during the first time, from 1. At the same time as other Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament in this House in 1995 were Members of the European Parliament, at the same time as all other Members of Parliament, including your group, and I would ask you not to constantly spread untruths here through the microphone.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3961	The next speaker is Mr Kostelka. He's got the floor. – I set the speaking time to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e3982	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! High house! What we have just experienced was that Don Quichotte Haider, with his Sancho Pansa Stadler, set up the lance and took action against a nonexistent privilege stadium. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Posch is the Don Quichotte!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is really immense what we have had to offer in the last few days in the history of lies and in the untruths that are supposed to be decided here today, which is not at all a basis for the draft law which we are going to adopt today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a result, the FPÖ has really managed to form a social fund. – The only thing to recognize is the title, which sounds very good. But even the Third President of the National Council needs to be made more laborious – with some means of disciplining – in order to at least verbally declare that he has confidence in such an anonymous social fund again. They pay one, and that in the context of fiscal provisions tax-saving – and operate, as the Burgenland examples show, so that nothing other than backflows to members of your own party and beyond, party financing. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If you do not believe in me, I may ask you to take today's issue of "Young Freedom", a newspaper that is certainly very close to you from the FPÖ. Do you know what to read there? – "The freedom of expression of the 60 000 S ceiling practised within the FPÖ is hardly taken seriously by insiders, as there are numerous loopholes in this respect for freedom-based functionalists." This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Your Social Fund is nothing but a dizzy fund! We are already in the behaviors of the liberals. A party observer of the liberals, ladies and gentlemen, who operates the mandate as a loss-paper model for which the mandate is a tax-depreciation post, has the forehead to speak of proficiency! [[Abg. Böhacker: You have no idea at all! That's white nonsense what you're saying!]] And if you publicly point out to him that he pays only 14 s tax, he complains. But if, in the course of this procedure, the judge does the most natural thing he can only do, namely: Mr Haider, you feel burdened, okay, then you submit the tax ruling, you know what happens then? - Nothing! If proof can be given that Mr Haider & Co's claims are true, then the radio silence is all at once. This evidence does not exist because it is deserved here, which is collected, that it is disassembled! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (after the speaker hit the speaker with his hand in his last sentence) When do you take off the shoe?]] [[Abg. Koppler: That was the Khrushchev!]] There is also a lot to be added to democracy policy. Ladies and gentlemen! We demand no more and no less than that a transparent, fair and fair system of reference be maintained and further developed. This reform, ladies and gentlemen, will also bring about this. What a part of this House wants is that among the members of this House – in this way we are already – are increasingly large-scale industrialists, large-scale owners, hoteliers and members of a very specific strata of this population. You belong here, of course, to that I call myself. But it must be a mandate which is also a profession, not only – as Mr Haselsteiner once said – but also a pleasure to someone who is treated by his businessman as a dog of race. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we confess that the mandate is also a profession and that there must therefore be a fair and fair professional income. In this context, it is really time to clarify some conscious but also some unconscious misunderstandings. To develop a "Monday morning allowance" for Members, this is truly blatant imagination reserved. Ladies and gentlemen! The distance allowance is nothing but a timely regulation of the distance allowance, because it is simply no longer possible to defend in this context the old distance allowance, which has created injustices. It has assumed that the distance from Vienna, the venue of the National Council and its committees, is proportional to the time burden. That's not right anymore! Who today lives in the west of Innsbruck or in the vicinity of Altenrhein, has an unevenly shorter arrival to Vienna by plane as someone who has his home in Austria. And this should take into account the new distance allowance, individually coordinated, determined by economic fidelity. And you're against it? Ladies and gentlemen, if you are against it, you are against justice! But it would not be the first time! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Something astonished me, this computer artist of my colleague, Anschober. Perhaps the wish of the father of the thought to pay for 100,000 S and 150,000 S, a total of 250,000 S, was here. All I can say, Mr Anschober, is that I can calm you down: You would not have received this money after the original wording – and you will not have received it after the present – because that is not justified. What we have said in this context is that a map containing the Wörthersee shipping system, the Achensee shipping system and the Ossiachersee shipping system is no longer up-to-date for a Member. That's what we're giving up. But what we are setting instead of that is a current regulation, namely that in future we will take into account, according to the travel fees regulations – like any other public staff, and also, in proper application, many private-sector agents. Travel costs will be subject to clear, legal regulations, in accordance with the principle: What it is, that has it!, be requited. This is clean, that is fair, and that is decent, and I therefore ask you to agree to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If you really believe that Member Bauer has done his job in the past – I am really amazed at this indifference – then please talk to him. [[Abg. Böhacker: No distraction!]] I have been in the Federal Chancellery of Zimmernachbar by Mr Bauer over four years. I can tell you: I saw him once in these four years in the Federal Chancellery. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because you were never there!]] I've always been there! - Do you know when that was? When he appeared with blue haferls in the course of the election campaign to the personnel representation elections and marched from room to room. This election campaign was the only professional "activity" of Mr Bauer. Shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Haider! If you demand the disclosure of all references, then we are the first to say "yes". But finally leave your tax ruling open! Really say what you pay on taxes – or even more precisely, what you don't pay for taxes! [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible! They allow themselves to ask a taxpayer to disclose his tax ruling! You should stop "hoechtln"! You should be ashamed, "Höchtler"!]] For you, what you save yourself on your mandate due to the alleged loss of your company's taxes, the gasoline money for those Porsches that you drive into the graves every summer with the unpurchased income from your company! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are really talking about the Rules of Procedure from the 15th century onwards. In September, you will also take note of the fact that this will bring about more democracy. It will create additional urgent instruments, more public. The completion of opposition applications will be enforceable and there will be interesting debates. But one thing will no longer exist: every month a special meeting of the liberals! And that is also justifiable, because, ladies and gentlemen, in 25 years before 1994, there have been only six special sessions in total, and in the last two and a half years there have been a total of 12. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Last time you said that we deserve so much because we have so many meetings!]] In the future, the opposition must assume that there will only be four special sessions a year. This is more than the long-term average. More than enough! You, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, would be the first to be upset if a Federal Minister made permanent use of his right to speak after each Member and speak without a time limit. They would be the first to demand that, if this were done, a corresponding business regulation provision be created, which would prevent such, under quotation marks, "abuse", and it would probably also be such. If you are measured by the same measure, if you say urgent requests of more than ten hours we simply do not let ourselves be offered, then you will be hurt. What we are going to decide today is an act of self-confident parliamentaryism, an act of parliamentarianism, which will create modern debates that will bring about contemporary debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You will experience this in the foreseeable future! You will suffer under these Rules of Procedure.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I regret that it was not possible to reach agreement on this proposal with the opposition groups, because the three models presented by the three opposition groups are so different. I am convinced that in autumn we should at least try to meet at the reference pyramid. My group will do all it can to do so. Because institutions such as F-social funds, which do not mean anything other than to carry around the sincere little taxpayers on the nose, which you are constantly talking about unfrozen, can do nothing to help democracy in Austria. A further development of the right of reference means very well this acceptable solution, which we propose to you. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4211	Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. He'll get the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4236	Mr President. High house! Mr Kostelka has made the claim that the liberals through their social funds are involved in party financing. That's wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Just like in Burgenland!]] I am right to say that, from the resources of their Social Fund, the liberals have put in place the following measures on the basis of a list in place, audited by a notary: [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You say you're wrong!]] Astrid Ecker 20 000 S Procedural aid; Elfriede Lang 100 000 S aid after the death of parents; Spastically paralyzed children's association, Mr. Penzauer, 30 000 S; family Gauster, Vollwaisen, 265,000 S; bone marrow transplant campaign 25 000 S; [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: In 1995 donations from 1988!]] support for blind children with reading computers 30 000 S; support for minority protection work in the border country 5 000 S; support for a children's home 30 000 S; support after a severe cancer operation for a woman 10 000 S; support of a wheelchair driver's club 10 000 S; Help for a large family with five children after severe illness of the woman 20 000 S ; [[Abg. Arbitrators: I ask: What about the money that was not consumed?]] Project support for a association of paralysed children 20 000 S; support for the association of spastic paralyzed children once again 20 000 S; support for a father-in-law whose parents in Burgenland died in a car accident... – You laugh, Mr. Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: These are loud claims!]] A car driver hit down the whole family on the road, but you laugh here. You should be really ashamed! That's a terrible thing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] support for the Landeskrankenhaus Klagenfurt for the Children's Station 30 000 S; Support for a disability club 10 000 S; support for a cross-sectional accident after a car accident 10 000 S; support for a children's playground 10 000 S; support for two children after fatal parental accident 20 000 S; support for life support 10 000 S; Handicapped World Cup 10 000 S; 28 individual actions at the Christmas Festival 140 760 S; action Full orphanage 264 927 p. That's about a million schillings. If you think that the financing of parties is, I must say that we are committed to this form of party financing.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4338	Mr Dkfm has made another corrective point. Bauer reported. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4384	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Kostelka, in his contribution to the debate, claimed that my only professional activity as a public servant was to move from room to room on the occasion of staff elections from room to room. This claim is incorrect. It is true, rather, that I have been unanswered and respected in agreement with my section manager and my department manager – for more than 20 years – as a public official. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Haven't followed!]] I have never – contrary to what you wanted to do here – accepted, rejected or not done a single job, even a single one.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4433	Ladies and gentlemen! I now have a further desire for actual corrections, for earlier reasons. I shall proceed in a uniform manner so as to accept actual corrections which are directly required for a speech. But if one of the previous speeches requires an actual correction, I give the word at the end. I believe that this is in the interest of the discussion and the variation between the political groups. Next word: Mrs Dr Schmidt. Talk time 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4458	Mr State Secretary! High house! I have neither the intention nor the slightest desire to vote in this plenary session, either to respond to individual rules or to give individual Members to the Pranger, whatever – I know – is very media-active. I have no intention of advocating any advocacy, which could perhaps be adversarial. I don't want to find anyone here who's in an obvious situation, where everyone knows who's got an income and who's not that ridiculous – that's the only way to express it. However, I do not intend to comment on any self-righteous arrangements which ultimately result from an illusion, namely the illusion that there could be justice in the payment of politicians at all. I believe, rather, that this debate, which is now taking place, should be given the opportunity to think about how democracy, how parliamentaryism can be defended and managed at this level and how, above all, the credibility of policy can be restored. This is not a question of distance allowances or of train tickets, but rather I believe that it is necessary to think here about principles, i.e. principles which should be the guidelines for those regulations which are the subject of this. For me, one of the important principles of policy is bad, but especially in this area, that not the pressure of the public should be decisive, but a fair balance of goods. I am therefore saying this at the outset as the first principle, because we have to deal with a very serious question of democracy in the current debate and because I assume that this weighting of goods and this appropriate debate has not taken place - neither within Parliament nor outside of Parliament. There was nothing else but to press ahead with the pressure of the public and bring some regulation on the tapet just to have the subject relatively quickly off the table. The second principle, the second principle: I do not think that the policy-makers' activities should be regulated. It is not just an illusion, it is a complete misunderstanding to believe that, simply because for one politician the political activity is fully called or must also be, for the other is a secondary profession and should also be. I would like to see a mixture in this Parliament, a mixture of politicians who also have a profession, and those who, because of their role, have only the political activity as a profession. But it is also a difference of living conditions, it is a difference where someone lives, where he comes from, whether someone comes from Bregenz or from Vienna. It is a difference whether a person comes to his workplace when he is around the corner twice, or whether he comes from one of Vienna's far-reaching federal states, where the effort is much higher. It is also a difference whether you are an official, whether you are an employee, whether you are a freelancer, whether you are a small trader or a large businessman. To believe that all these living conditions must be brought under one hat with a casuistic arrangement is dispassionate. This is not just an illusion, it is a deception of the citizens. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But that already leads me to a third principle: The politician cannot be paid like an official or an official. I believe that it was already a fundamental error of the last reform to link political activity to official activity, precisely because this activity is a special activity. I therefore believe that professional activity is far more comparable to political activity than official activity. What you're doing now – that's the painful thing for me – is: They reduce the politician, the politician to the level of a legal official. What you are doing now is not to recognize that the politician is part of a supreme institution that he has to be a designer of politics. They are depoliticizing this Parliament. This is the disaster that is happening with the current order of reference. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] What you are doing now is to regulate the future loss of sight, which is pre-programmed, now also by law. This brings me a new dimension in this loss of sight. We have often had to accept this loss of respect for politics and for Parliament: scandals on the one hand, misdevelopments on the other, other abuses and misreactions on the other, through everything possible. But now you are programming this loss of sight, and you are also regulating it by law, because what you are doing now is creating a completely new profile of the politician. You are pretending that the session activity here is the only political activity to be rewarded. What you do is honestly nothing but what the Freedom Scurrils do, who believe that the Stechluhr can be used to regulate the activity of a politician. They also do not do much else with your travel regulations and similar. But what happens here – that is the painful thing in it – is that It is with this in mind that Parliament is being disassembled, and this Parliament is becoming more and more legitimate, because of its legal basis, a link between the government and it is no longer. It is not a self-containing device of self-thinking and shaping people, as you want it to be, because you act as if the political activity that is taking place outside this house is nothing more than any hobby of a politician. It must be recognized that this is the real task of discussing with the local people, of informing them that the information, the discussion, also belongs to me with representatives of interest, from me also with the press. All this, this public work, is not a self-profile of a far-seeing politician, but that has to be the political task. This is also political work, not only the delivery of individual applications, but all of this is part of it, all of which is the essence of democracy. But you're just discussing this away. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on Green MEPs.]] All of this is also the basis for an important task of Parliament, namely government control. Government control is not only concerned with any urgent questions, but it is involved in this public work, in dialogue with all the levels of the population. This is not private pleasure, it is not something where I then have either financial officials or parliament officials decide whether it was politically necessary. That is exactly what you are doing with your regulation, under an inventive pressure that you feel here by the public. That there are individual cases that have been shamelessly exploited by a legal regulation, that will make you quite right in your own ranks, but that must not be the reason for the child to be thrown out with the bath in a Horuck action now! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] We have not only come to the conclusion, because of the public debate, that there is something wrong somewhere, but we believe that the current legislation no longer meets the requirements. One should not knock on the chest and imagine what one has done wrong, but there has just been a further development, a wrong development. All of this has to be reformed, but in a form that redefines or redefines the political concept, precisely because of the task that comes to a Parliament. That is why we - this is the curious fact that you are now acting like something new on the table - put in a motion for a resolution in February of this year, which has been in the Constitutional Committee since then. This is a large package of very concrete ideas, a motion for a resolution which we have put together in a punctuation and which we have presented to a model which was a basis for discussion, not just something that we are throwing for a newspaper, but a serious basis for discussion, where we must not agree to everything, but which at least should have been a support rocket for a serious discussion. The model of the Liberal Forum sees – briefly summarized; They got it in February – before: First of all, a link between political relations with the development of gross domestic product, with the unemployment rate and with government debt. You can discuss this. Mr. Wabl, you're welcome to laugh at it. I too do not think that this is an ideal solution, I say quite openly. It is also my request, but I was in favour of submitting it in such a way that we can discuss the fore and counter. I also do not think that this point of the mystery solution is ideal, but it is a very suitable basis for discussion. Second point: not an automatic pension claim, but self-insurance. I hope we can find ourselves there. Third: not financial by-regulations, but a salary for a function. Fourth point: Being a politician means being professionally active without ensuring a return to the former job. You should also talk about it. There can be many who convince us that one or the other is not right. This is the essence of a parliamentary debate, that arguments may also make one smarter and come to a different conclusion. But nothing happened. It's like it's not an issue. Now, after the affair of Höchtl, it is necessary for you to catch up with us in a few weeks. This has nothing to do with seriosity and justice. What I believe is that – and this is my fourth principle – anti-performance must not be a measure in the payment of someone and not even in the payment of politicians. In order to really exaggerate this in order to weigh it, one should use much more of the expertise of non-political experts. We did that. We have developed that model that we have presented – we have had work and costs – together with a management consulting company. So you can't say, This is why it is talking about something because it must also comment on it. We have given this problem a solution as a serious one earlier than anyone else in this House. You, Mr Wabl, do not have to look at it like that. Have you presented a concrete model? - No, you didn't. [[Abg. Wabl: Of course! Already in 1989!]] I'm very curious about your speech. What I mean is that as the fifth principle, something is very essential: If we are talking about the credibility of politics, then of course it is also about acceptance in the population. This acceptance will be much better achieved if the regulations are transparent and simple. That is, what you're planning now with the most different zones, with any supplements, with any deposits, confuses the matter again. Mystery cannot be a principle, and it is it that leads to disbelief and non-acceptance. But you continue that path that you have so far gone. If, therefore, we are dealing today – which were five principles we should have been talking about – with the reference system, on the one hand, which deals with the Rules of Procedure on the other, I think, it is here, and this seems important to me to be the function of the future, if you want, also of the current, but above all of the future function of Parliament, and of the importance of Parliament, therefore also of the role and importance of politicians, of parliamentarians. It also referred to the reform of the Rules of Procedure. It is true that I have always supported the rights of the individual parliamentarian, and I believe that one of the most important rights of parliamentarians is the right to speak. Democracy lives on its own; that is an old principle, one of the most correct and important, as I mean. Parliament's Rules of Procedure is a democratic instrument. But if there is a political group that is not prepared to act in accordance with this principle, and if one knows that democracy can also be abolished by democratic means, then one has to think about whether the weights must not be shifted in the weighing of goods. And that's exactly what happened. The shift in weights has taken place by creating the possibility to limit speaking time. This request was tabled by us together with the Greens and the Coalition Parties. The aim is to upgrade parliamentarianism, make it more functional, planable and interesting. In addition, opposition parties should be forced to set political priorities. They must not be given a free letter for democratic but destructive use of the instruments. That is our objective of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, and I am in favour of it. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on representatives of the ÖVP.]] Second point: Relevant law. I have, in any case, formulated in connection with this those democratic concerns which were important to me to take the lead once; my colleagues will address the details. In this connection, I remembered a sentence of Theodor Heuss, which he said in 1949, which reads: The external freedom of the many depends on the inner freedom of the individual. This external freedom of the many for whom the parliamentarians are responsible therefore also depends on the internal freedom of parliamentarians. In my opinion, internal freedom belongs to social security, social security, occupational security, all that can be regulated, among other things, by means of a reference law. But this also includes – and you shouldn't forget that right now! – the free mandate – that free mandate which imposes on each individual Member the subjective responsibility to say yes or no to a provision depending on whether he considers it right or not. Now do not come to me with questions of conscience, as if only in matters of conscience, this free mandate. It is a fundamental principle of Parliament, and it is your concern whether you apply it only in deep matters of conscience or in all important or unimportant questions of legislation. I believe that we have reached an important question today. The Liberal Forum therefore – and I may read this request – submits the request for referral back to your application in accordance with § 53 para. 6 C. 2 GOG. We would like to make the request The National Council will decide to refer to the Committee's report 245/A by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and others for further consideration to the Constitutional Committee. I know that there are also some Members in the Government who believe that the law, as it is now, is not good. This does not mean that one must condemn it in Bausch and Arch. But You must admit that corrections are necessary. And I know there are some of you who have already said that aloud, some of them behind the hand, some of them a little more custodian. You don't have to reject it right away. But please agree to this request for referral back. Then we all have a chance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4538	I consider this referral request to be an application for business treatment, referred to in § 53 para. 6 will be put to the vote after the vote on the list of speakers. The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4563	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The level of remuneration in the state economy and in close-to-state establishments and the level of political incomes have no more place in the lives of our population than the principle that officials, when elected to a mandate, are to be exempt from the further reference of their salary. We have noted that the elections of recent years have repeatedly pointed out that there are injustices which the population no longer understands. Therefore, in the government agreement which we signed in March of this year, we have envisaged two things; one thing we are putting forward and presenting to them today for decision-making. First of all, we have planned to design a reference pyramid and submit it to the National Council by the end of the year, which sets constitutional limits for all relations in the local authorities and in close-to-state institutions. Secondly, we have looked forward to this promise today, that the unemployed income of public servants who are at the same time mandates will be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen! The regulation we are presenting today has come under the pressure of public opinion. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: She's a bad counselor!]] Public opinion is in democracy, Mr. Hazelsteiner, at the end of the value judge, and politicians have to comply with the wishes of the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We propose the following model: Public servants should receive only more jobs than they work in verifiable and documented work, but not more than 75 percent of their employment, even though they are 100 percent, which is possible for members of the Federal Council and for members of parliament. This is a system guaranteed by a constitutional provision, and a system controlled by an independent Commission of experts who are no longer in employment, and a system that is initiated by declarations by the Member concerned and verifiable by means of verifiable checks at the Service Authority and publicly comprehensible by a report to the National Council – a clean solution to which we stand! [[Call to the liberals:Haha!]] Ladies and gentlemen! There are public officials in all parliamentary clubs, and I refuse to qualify the public officials on a flat-rate basis. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has a good reason that 70 percent of the Social Democrats are in the public service, that 50 percent are public servants in the Green and Liberal Group, 45 percent of the EIA Group are public servants and 17 percent are public servants in the Freedom Group. It brings in a expertise that is good for this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But that does not justify any privileges. That is why we are eliminating the privileges today. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: What about the reverse?]] I would very much like it, Mr Haselsteiner, if there were several entrepreneurs like you sitting here. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Schmidt.]] And I would like to have more lawyers, more tax advisers, more practitioners, more doctors in this House, because this House would only benefit from it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: No more workers!]] We are creating today the instrument which has been in place since 1920, that is to say, public Staff members must be released and their remuneration shall continue to be paid. But we don't need any more donations. That is to say, all the constructions there are to be paid in, for example, a social fund that is not transparent, or to have a fund to deliver the money to somewhere are no longer necessary. Don't pay as a public servant and leave the money with the taxpayer! No more funds! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have always been taken from the National Councilman as a secondary job, and employment in politics has always been an official nobile: it has not been paid any reference to it, but a compensation. However, we must realize – Max Weber recognized this decades ago – that politics is a profession today. And politics as a profession means that we have such consequences, but it also means that, in addition to the Nobile Office in the National Council, of course, we are also continuing to make our political activity possible in the constituencies – Mrs Schmidt rightly pointed out – and that we continue to bring experience from professional practice into this House. We need economic operators here in the High House, we need practitioners, we need practitioners, we need law enforcement lawyers, and we also need public servants. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] If we see politics as a profession, we must also represent the appropriate wage for it: a wage that is measured according to performance, a wage that is measured according to responsibility, and a wage that is measured according to the ability. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: Let's not keep making our own profession bad! Everyone in this high house has not a ten-, but a twelve- or more-hour day, and he likes to do his work. Each one of us needs a grumbled measure of skill, each of us needs a grumbled measure of expertise, and each of us must make a commitment to him the party that demands the Republic, which the country of his father, to him. Therefore, let us not make ourselves bad, but let us stand for our profession! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] I have already mentioned this today: Under the pressure of public opinion, we have today presented the rules on the abolition of the unemployment benefits of officials who are at the same time mandates. Furthermore, we have tabled the regulation that the standard travel expenses, regardless of the actual costs, as well as the flat rate, regardless of the cost of accommodation, and the ticket which many citizens do not understand. 1. Class at the Federal Railways are abolished. In place of these flat-rate schemes, we have proposed effort-based arrangements, drawn up by economic fidelity, presented in the presidential conference and discussed and decided by all parties. Only then – Mrs Schmidt, read the law: Economic loyalty proposal, consultation at the Presidential Conference – the re-regulation of fees will enter into force. Until then, it remains with the old regulation, until the time when we have verifiable, fair, consistent regulations for fines. Until then, nothing changes in the current situation. We believe that this is fair, and we believe that we can stand before our voters. Then: We do not allocate ourselves to extra sausages, but do what all other people in this country do: Collect evidence, prove expenses, calculate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I take this very seriously what Mrs Schmidt has said here today, and I say to you that, as regards the second part of the reform, namely the reference pyramid, we will surely be looking for a discussion with all the political groups in this House. Today, we will also be presenting a motion for a resolution which we hope will be adopted, namely that there will be limits for the involvement of politicians in all local authorities, on the basis of a proposal from an independent Commission. In this way, the argument – which has already been rightly put forward by my previous speakers – is that we should define our own references and, as it were, be self-services. There will therefore be an independent committee making proposals, and I promise you that we will consult carefully with all the political groups, and I hope that we will reach these limits on the basis of consensus. I would also like to point out that there are, of course, diametrically opposed views regarding compensation systems for Members. It has something for itself, but in my opinion, there is simply not the perfect system accepted by all. The free system of a basic relationship with a diet allowance system depending on the requirements of the meetings, the committees, the functions is certainly a system that, you see from the level of references in this proposal – I consider the references too high – has a lot for itself. It is benefit-related and labour-related. It is not transparent, however, because there is no one to say how much he is referring to in the month. The system of the Liberal Forum with the fixed-rate fee paid in twelve instalments a year, and of which everyone has to secure his fees, his pension entitlements et cetera, also has a lot to do with it. It's maximum transparent. But it is in no way performance-related, and it is in no way appropriate to communicate, because the references in this fee system – from my point of view at least – are far too high. It's unmedial. Therefore, although maximum transparency, it is an unmediable height. The system we are presenting, that is, the point of contact with the highest-earning officials of the service class IX, is a system that we have agreed many decades ago. We do not want to change anything on this basic system, but rather on the costs that will be checked, and on the package we want to abolish. I would like to point out that this year of the Structural Adjustment Act, of course, we have the utmost care to do with the savings package, and I therefore think it is right that we have already decided and accepted the fourth zero for ourselves. Zero has been unrounded for four years! I also think it is right that we have already raised the retirement age to 60 years - as for everyone else - in the last year. I also think it is right that we have abolished the settlement system for Members who have so far been involved and that we now have the same as all ASVG insured persons. And I also think it is right that the savings package has significant effects on ourselves and that each of us has at least half a to a quarter of a month's cover, because we also have to carry the solidarity sacrifice. I think it's all right. However, we need to reach a consensus on the systems we choose and the system we decide to decide on in the discussion on the upper limit. A solution that is maximum transparent, maximum performance-related and maximum differentiated is a square of the circle. We will therefore have to consider exactly and then have to decide. But one thing, ladies and gentlemen, is important: We must demonstrate to our people that we are worth our money through the regulation we are creating and the work we are doing.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4702	The next item is Mrs Dr Petrovic's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4723	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The whole discussion, as it is now taking place, and also the speeches, especially the club members of the government parties, are a common picture of the development of the state of politics in this country. I believe that from the debate on how it has been in the last few days and weeks, we must learn two main lessons. The one main teaching – these should finally attract the government parties – is: One can, even if you have regained the two-thirds majority by the last election, that important laws in this country are no longer so easy to decide. You can no longer be as bold and brutal about the opposition and also about the public opinion about how you still believe you can do this. Ladies and gentlemen! It has shown you the debate of the last days that, despite your two-thirds majority, you are unable to pass a law against public opinion and by eliminating the opposition here – through your power perfection, through the arrogance with which you act. Thank God it has become impossible. And it should be a teaching for you, in other important laws, in constitutional laws, to try, on the one hand, to listen to opinions, to convictions in the population and on the other, to seek dialogue with the other groups of this House; only then will you come to a decision in important matter, which is also understandable in the public and which can also be borne by this House as a whole. Secondly, The regulation is completely unsatisfying in its content. If you just said, Dr. Khol: If we do not constantly make our profession bad, and if you said you would refuse to qualify the public staff standard, I will answer you: None of those who have tried to bring about a fair settlement have ever done so! If someone has made the profession as a whole bad, if someone has thrown a bad light on the public service and on the public servants here in this house, then you were, then the people in your group like Dr. Höchtl. One can say that you have 'improved' the reputation of politics in that country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Dr. Khol! Dr. Kostelka! You, through the long-standing tolerance of people in your factions, of which you knew very well that they are making references – in part, you were even involved – without making a finger, you have raised the very mood that we are now experiencing in this country. Mrs. Dr. Schmidt! You said you shouldn't act on public pressure. In principle, this is true, but there are also legitimate expectations of the public and a pressure which is very probably legitimate. In this country, one savings package after another, one burden package after another, draconian measures are imposed on women who are in Karenz, at the expense of the unemployed, at the expense of many professional groups. And if these persons feel that on their salary note, on their reference note, less is recorded each month, while there are people sitting here who get money for the lack of money, then there is a pressure which is very good to be met and which includes the obligation to deal with these demands. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: Don't twist things! That is why there has been an application since February! You know exactly what I've been talking about!]] Of course, but it must be done. I share your view that this regulation, as it has now been made, is bad. I also share your view that a comprehensive arrangement could have taken time to discuss it in detail and together with the opposition groups. There is no reason, however, why not, here and today, at least those who pay unemployed incomes – unfortunately, there is also in your group – immediately give up on their unemployed incomes. This can easily be done with a formless letter. And there's no reason why this hasn't happened long ago. The new regulation is unsatisfying for us for many reasons. On the one hand, a salary pyramid, a classification of all the references of politicians from the Federal Chancellor is beyond. Why, Dr. Khol, Dr. Kostelka, have you been running an announcement policy here for years instead of finally presenting, consulting and deciding on such a scheme? On the other hand, this scheme is inadequate because it covers only a part of public officials. Staff, officials of chambers, social security bodies and associations are further excluded. It is likely that members of the government parties will be able to serve and get there even more frequently and even more 3rd out of these checkouts in the future. A third point, why the regulation is completely inadequate – that is a very important point for us – is the lack of disclosure, and the disclosure of all the mandates. They shall make known all their income. It is not a shame to obtain income in addition to a mandate, but one should disclose it. Furthermore, one should disclose the assets, and the time required by other activities. Then the public should decide whether it is possible for a third national council president to have three jobs – one of which would actually require each one full attention and full time. However, the political parties should also disclose to their party funds what they receive from third parties or from their representatives, what is involved in party taxes, taxes and where they go. When Mr. Dr. Haider referred to the FPÖ Social Fund in his statement here, I must say: What he has read here, above all in his actual correction, was actually something that should give the journalists present to do further research. For what has been revealed here can only be a very small part of the deposits of the liberal mandates. After a superficial calculation, this would only have to be the deposits of Dr. Brauneder, which have been distributed here. According to the media alone, there are many other public servants who have obtained unemployment income. To distribute one million, which in fact must have paid a single one, is actually equal to a self-payment. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Calculating has never been your strength!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: From 60,000 S!]] The public or the Austrian citizens can now expect so well that they no longer believe your regulations at all. You have to speak and answer them, not me, but you will still have to do so abundantly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Burgenland!]] Yes, yes, Burgenland is a good keyword for you. [[Abg. Haigermoser: There you will not be chosen where you are known!]] As far as disclosure is concerned, you also need a certain explanation. Why do you have the green requests, which are precisely based on this disclosure, for which you are now acting in this way at once – the requests of the 25th century? ==References== ==References== January 1989 and several other such applications – are again and again rejected? – You seem to fear this disclosure as much as the government parties. And that's what the image of politics in Austria has so reduced! This is what the population no longer understands and is no longer accepted. You have to be aware of this contradiction of appreciation, which is what it means for ASVG-pensionists, for pensioners, for unemployed people, for the unemployed who receive a very small additional income, if they still work for a few hours, and then all that is publicly paid back. – Already from 3 800 S! These are orders of magnitude that most people in this house no longer think about! These are naturalities that come behind the command of any fee billing. And that's what the population no longer understands! And that's what can no longer be tolerated! It is not about the level of the mandate when a fair, fair performance is provided for it; the amount of the parliamentary relation, as it stands today, is absolutely acceptable and correct in my view. It's about the ancillary services, so what you're trying to do is plug in, sometimes without making your finger grow. But it is also about these inconvenients! It is simply not possible for a normal person – I think everyone here – to fill in three complete jobs with certainty. We also know that once these multifunctionaries are apologised for the other job, they are not present there because they have so many other business to do. And that's what makes evil blood! And you don't pick that up again with this novelle. One final point of our dissatisfaction: the Commission which you propose. This purely government commission, which you set up here, which is still occupied with people who are experts in double abcassing, will not help to create more justice. Here you actually make goats to gardeners when They leave people who, for years and decades, have not found anything to do with double and triple cashing for nothing, and if they are to be a moral body now when it comes to assessing such practices. I think that this is also an abundantly unpleasant and, in fact, embarrassing debate for this House; a debate that we will hold for so long until it actually comes to a large and satisfactory arrangement. Most of the double and triple cashiers are "only" moral obligations, which we believe were violated, in some cases also in breach of legal obligations. We do not want to look after the individual people, we do not want to expose the individual in any way, but at last we want to make a big arrangement that meets the principles for which we have long stood. That is why I call on those who, like all three presidents – whether fishermen, neissers or brown-headeders – have obtained such incomes, they should at least refund at least some or at least the non-worked funds in the past year! This would be a command of fairness and would be an important contribution to raising the reputation of politics. In some cases, however, as the media presentation now shows, we believe that a legal review would be highly recommended. We will therefore make a request today, and it will be awaiting that you will finally make it serious with your announcements that, in any case, the financial procuratorship should carry out such a review, in any case, where the 75 percent rule has been used, without any corresponding work being done in the workplace. In our view, this is the case with Mr Höchtl and Mr Freisenschlager and would have to be checked. It is necessary to review the financial procuratorship of the references that have been made in recent years, because if one of these immoral regulations had already been appropriate somewhere – as has been said, immoral but probably legal – then the regulation of retirement. But without doing any work, taking advantage of the 75 percent rule, that seems to us to be completely inappropriate! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] Yes, you should talk about morality in this house! One should talk about morality, and one should also disclose what has been collected in relation to each individual relationship – including your person – in recent years, how much you have received. If you have done a job for this, then leave it open, then you do not need to generate for it! But to prescribe rules and to allow this House to be discredited as a whole is something that the Austrian people will not rightly accept! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We of the Greens have done this again and again – I repeat it once again. I handed this over to the media today. We are opening up our Citizens' Initiative Fund, which is not fed out of our civil servants' salaries for non-performance, but from parts of our parliamentary relations. And to what has been said by the FPÖ today about the 1 million schilling of their social fund, I can only say: Some of us – for example, I – have paid this alone in these funds. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is your party tax!]] I would ask you to decide on this disclosure as a minimum of fairness to the population today, and to stop, on the second hand, all unemployed income not only, but also to pass on the moral obligation in your political groups that a refund of amounts which have at least been morally wrong will happen at the same time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the party tax you have! Voluntary!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4869	Mr Lösnak spoke next. – Voluntary speaking time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4890	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! When I changed from the office of the Minister of the Interior to that of a Member of Parliament more than a year ago, I determined not to take any position in the National Council on everything and every position. And I also stuck to this purpose, because I am convinced that in a time when more and more politicians are experiencing the temptations of populism, there must also be people who, in the background of their experience, comment on fundamental issues, without, for example, having to deal with media coverage. The debate on the regulation of political relations is not a new one. In the 18 years I have been a member of a Federal Government, there have been a number of attempts to introduce this matter to a definitive arrangement. And – you have to find out – they were all unfit! None of us – I, of course, included – are free of guilt from all those who stand in politics. We would have had it in our hands to settle the question much more uncompromisingly than we have dealt with it so far, and thus to disprove those who, like you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, are, while others, as hypocrites and excavators, themselves affected and who will have payment or pension entitlements from this scheme to the extent of millions of schilling, but not – at least not to me – are aware that you have renounced it. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! However, it has not yet come to such a uncompromising solution. I believe that this proposal will not solve this problem again. This proposal for an initiative is not a law if I am allowed to say that which really deserves the title "reform". It is the attempt of a law on occasions, and I am not talking about the occasion because it is known throughout Austria. The proposal now before the debate will only resolve the updated side of the problem. There will be no more unemployed income in the future, which is good. Many others, however, will remain as had been done. Media and populists will continue to drive politics – I am deeply convinced – with the accusation that political privileges have not really been abolished, and this could only be avoided if one did not improve defensively, but really offensively, in knowledge of all the difficulties, would make a comprehensive, clear overall arrangement. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] However, a general rule also requires, ladies and gentlemen, that we make it clear to our country that the work of ministers, of Members and other officials is worth, for example, whether they should earn more or less or as much as comparable – if you can compare it at all – people in the private sector or whether they should be treated differently from other professional groups in the private sector or in the free trade to lawyers and journalists. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] On this occasion we should also talk about how we want to shape the total salary relationships in Austria and what we can do to reduce the differences between low and high salaries. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, two principles have been questioned in this regulation. The first principle: It is the trust in the Austrian legal system by a institute which has been used for many decades, by the fact that a public servant – at least of the federal government, if I have read it properly – has been retired in view of his membership to the National Council on the basis of the previous legal situation, from 1. In January 1997, the appointment was to be reintroduced into service again. This principle is all the more questionable to me than to make a difference as to whether the person concerned has retired at the tender age of 28 or at the mature age of 38 or 48 or at the age of 58 for example. Just as well – I warn – the legislator could come to the point of intervening, for example, retroactively in pension claims. I assume that many people in this House do not want this. But I wonder why they then make this a precedent for the field of politicians. I would like to address another fundamental problem. [[Abg. Wabl: I thought that would make Khol and Kostelka!]] – Mr Wabl! You know this very well: I am not speaking here for Mr Klubobmann Khol and not for Mr Klubobmann Kostelka. I speak for Mr Lösnak and I should like to express my opinion to you. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] A second point, which I think is a matter of concern to democracy: Many public service activities are not compatible with a parliamentary function, as opposed to private sector activities. If one makes the exercise of a mandate for the public servants concerned dependent on the recruitment of their activities in the public service, then this, ladies and gentlemen, goes beyond a specific professional ban. If you link this decommissioning with the withdrawal of remuneration, you force the public servants to decide between the profession on the one hand and the representative's activity on the other. Simplely expressed: While this regulation eliminates a possible privilege of civil servants, the complete abandonment of civil service relations in those cases where the public service function is incompatible with the parliamentary activity of the case and a place of replacement is not to be found, it should also be clearly said that discrimination against public servants will lead to discrimination against public servants. One can only take such a step if one is aware of the other areas in which one has to talk about professional bans or partly professional bans. That is to say, this law calls into question, on the one hand, life planning, on the other, a whole group of politicians' bans or a group of officials' bans on policy. I have already said that, even if you see this differently, Mr Wabl, I do not think it is good for democracy policy. [[Abg. Wabl: It is not about ban, but about compatibility!]] For me, this attempt to find a solution is marked by the fact that he went over the stage quite simply. It seems to be an attempt to get a late remedy. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr President. I have made up my mind for my further life-planning, never to make a decision against my conviction. I know, for example, with my party president or the Chancellor, who expressed this conviction on another occasion – it was about sending a member of this House into a position in Luxembourg at the time – an opinion. I use this right not to act against my conviction today. The proposal does not concern me primarily. I would like to stress this so that there is no misunderstanding. I should like to make it clear from the fundamental considerations here, from these principles of democracy, whether there are still aspects in the course of the debate that make it possible for me to agree to this law. If I could help with my speech to stimulate a deep discussion of incomes and privileges, in the so-called private and public sector in our state, I would be pleased. If I could initiate the discussion on the fact that officials are workers with normal rights and duties, I would be pleased. In this sense, I would like to know my contribution.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4958	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e4979	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the speech of my previous speaker, Mr Lösnak, was quite so that on this day, in this non-star hour of parliamentarianism, perhaps it could still be the attempt to save some of the finish line, five minutes before twelve, which for me and for many Austrians has actually swung down the stream. The reform of the Rules of Procedure, which will be debated today, and the reference reform, which is under item 1 of the agenda, could be a star of parliamentaryism in a functioning Parliament. Unfortunately, I have to say that both regulations do not help in my view. The referee arrangement brings a quick shot, which – some callers have already formulated it correctly, and so it can be seen from my point of view – under the impression of the opinion made in this state – under the pressure of those who, from the gallery, support and observe the political events of this state with subsidies and without risk, and of those who take a risk. Of the 183 MPs sitting here in Parliament, none of the personal conditions are comparable to the others – neither the officials among themselves nor the teachers with those who work in administrative offices, with those who work in senior positions, or with district leaders, university professors, lecturers or officials in other areas of executives, such as at the border that serves the federal army. However, they all have a privilege in contrast to other professional groups in that state. If they leave Parliament, they can get back into their profession. They have a right of return to a working relationship they had before starting their political functions. Those who come from the free economy do not have this guarantee – neither the freelancer nor the entrepreneur, nor the employee, nor the worker. This privilege will always be held by officials because, hopefully, there will still be a functioning democracy for a long time, because, if someone leaves Parliament, this democratic state is still present, while the best company can no longer exist in three, four or five years due to the up and down in a changing economic life. I therefore think it unfair and unclean when apples are compared to pears in today's discussion as always. People who work to 70, 75 or 100 percent of their work compare with those who have made unemployed incomes, and those who have legalised unemployment incomes are unfair. Those who were officials before they went to politics cannot be compared to those who only went into politics as officials were assured by politics to have posts. There are also uneven cases among officials. It may not be that someone who, as long as he was not yet a politician, had been "good" or "satisfying" in his description of service, from the day on which he became a politician is once considered "excellent" and thus increases in the "fast lift" of transport, although he has not contributed to his office. It may well be, however, that someone is a very bad official and yet an excellent politician. It may also be that someone as a politician is extremely bad, but is an excellent official. The number of politicians is also difficult to compare. You all know it yourself when you look into your clubs. A small percentage in each club bears the main work, the preparatory work. A lower share is taking part on an average, and a few also enjoy privileges within their clubs. That is why this privilege debate will not take advantage of anyone, neither the group on the right nor the group on the left. Only one thing I would like to say to Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Kostelka, in all clarity. Nor can we compare the times of political debate in this House. There was a time when all the political groups represented in the House, starting from the Communists through the VdU to the current political groups, were involved in the preparations for parliamentary business and were involved in the preliminary work on the committees, to the same extent, fair and their strength. They then reactively activated themselves in the plenary session when they were excluded. I value it. Because cause and context can also be seen here. The exclusion in the preliminary deliberations in accordance with the parliamentary uses has, of course, caused reactions under the Rules of Procedure and only within the framework of the Rules of Procedure here in the House – not outside the Rules of Procedure, not undemocratic. On this difference, dear Clubobmann Kostelka, I value. What you are preparing today with your Clubobmann pendant, Khol, is that this Parliament is flawed in two ways. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: There are four factions!]] This is a two-way attack on Parliament, Mr Kostelka. Because one thing I'm telling you is: Mrs Schmidt's request to refer this request back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to deal with it properly is for me a request to be accepted today, because I am deeply convinced that this solution is not a real one. The hierarchy, the pyramid that you have repeatedly promised us for ten years, should have been created first in order to find a transparent and manageable system within the framework of the pyramid and not vice versa! At a moment when one makes an invading legislation to invent an unmistakable system of allowances and then perhaps to follow the income pyramid, it is grotesque. To display: Then who will decide? – The government parties will then decide whether the opposition politicians will comply with their obligations at the official workplace well or badly. Those who have complained to the Republic because what they have received were still insufficient and excessive over-fulfilment of the legal possibilities was also their norm in accordance with the laws of that Republic, will then be the judges on whether a policy itself should be limited, because it has become "closer" in that state, because of the politics that those who sit in the Council of Wise Men have started and caused it. Mr Löschnak has already mentioned it: The changes in the constitutional area, the retroactive changes, the interventions in the right of politicians to retire will undoubtedly follow the feared intervention of normal citizens. Today, we politicians are also taking out rules for the billing of the documents which do not apply to any one in Austria, the billings and fees, outside of politics. We can write our own documents by regulation, because it is not reasonable for you to get a properly confirmed bill with the appropriate head at a ball or at a fire brigade for every beer and for any pair of sausages you pay. To this end, the associations that give out, most often do not even have a commercial license, but have received it from any other person and could not issue a corresponding bill according to the financial laws. A month and a half ago, through the savings package, people who need their offices for their service obligations in normal life made it difficult for them to drop off the facilities of their offices. In the law, however, we simplify it for ourselves. We are now doing exactly the same thing we have done in the past: We'll get the raisins out. This cannot be the last conclusion to the meaning and wisdom of this reference law, which is here on the table. [[Congratulations on the Freeman, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] For me, the main problem is that in this Parliament, only the standard that formulates criminal law and not the normal human right is applicable. A lot of things have not been decent, although it was, unfortunately, legal. We all, who have not done so, that the legal changes have come about, are to blame for the fact that democracy in that state has suffered more harm than it would have suffered through some false law, namely through a permanent wrong attitude of politicians towards themselves, towards their position in society and towards their responsibility for society. From the noble House of Deputies, in which a few could afford something, became a House of Deputies, in which it was natural for everyone to have to afford something. That cannot be the maximum of a democratic Parliament of the future of this state! I therefore believe that our proposal for freedom of movement based on the policies of the Parliament, on how this state is doing, on the individual citizens, and on the average income of the Austrians, would be quite superior and should have been taken up once. I would like to highlight the many criticisms you have today regarding the 60 000 S, a voluntary abandonment of the liberals, with regard to two aspects. First: This fund is under the permanent control of a notary and is managed by this notary. Payments are also ordered by him in the appropriate form. He also pointed out, even in the case of Professor Brauneder, who once even transferred too much, to clarify this. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Leikam.]] This too can happen: that those people who are in the public have even passed on more than they had to pay through error. Mr Leikam! If you laugh at it, I'll tell you a stone and clear: Every one of us who pays in there, of course, also has to pay from the remaining 60 000 s what you do, all the invitations, the peacocks and everything else to be financed. This is understood by itself for me and my colleagues in the political groups. [[Abg. Leikam: The tears come to Me!]] When I look at my own constituency: We are not really less happy than the other colleagues who are with us in Carinthia – despite the 60,000 S rule! I do not think we need to generate this regulation. It does not help you, either, if you are constantly suing the operations in the Burgenlander Fund. In the first instance, against two newspapers there have been judgments that have won the liberals. In one case, the process is finally completed and in the second case there is still an appeal pending. I would also like to see populism on the one hand and populism on every occasion, that on the other hand, Mr Leikam, one is also fair and accurate where one has been taught by the court of a better person and does not continue to maintain misinterpretations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In my case and in the money I have delivered, I tell you quite clearly: I have taken note of those facts, which have become public in some place, as such. But I am of the opinion that if you donate something to socially needy people – and I donate only where I am actually convinced that people are socially in need – it is actually an advantage when politicians arrive with a television team to deposit 10,000 S or 20 000 S there and thus make an advertising and PR action. This is not necessary and does not deserve the people who urgently need this money because they really need it socially! I would like to see this basic social setting available to all political groups and that all the social funds, as we do, provide funds to the actually socially needy in this state, which, despite the social system of the Republic of Austria, is available. Finally, I would like to say something: We shall come to a decision here today. Perhaps this decision-making will be limited and we will adopt this act of law. But I am deeply convinced that the debate will not end. Or the majority in this House will prevail, and the referral request will be put to the vote, and we will make this request for an end, perhaps over the summer, fair and inclusive of the positive aspects of all five requests, which would be a more famous piece of work for this Parliament than what is on the table today as a piece of work and will contribute to the recent confusion of people.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5059	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5080	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The current rules for Members, who are also public servants at the same time, are currently the following in order to clarify this: either the reduction of remuneration to 75 per cent for part-time work in public service or an out-of-service service, also with 75 per cent of remuneration, or, as a third possibility, early retirement with retirement. This regulation is rightly being more and more criticised in the public, because it also makes a very different treatment for the individual Members of this House. Of course, an ASVG insurer employed in the private sector will only be paid for those hours of his business which he actually works. The same applies, however, to a farmer or a trader who needs a replacement worker at home or who has to restrict the holding in such a way, so that of course he achieves a much lower income. That is why I believe that this step we are taking today is necessary. The referee reform package is based on the following considerations: In the future – under "Future" I understand the time from 1st. August – the unemployed income for public servants is abolished. It will only find the actual work done in salary its precipitation, as was the case in the private sector so far. There will also be no early retirement. There are areas where public service and parliamentary activity are quite compatible. This is certainly difficult in public administration. But there are areas where this is, of course, compatible. There is also a clean regulation here for those who are out of service and therefore no longer receive salary. If these persons want the corresponding years to be charged for the pension, they must continue to pay the pension contributions from their income as a Member or from their private assets. These are not paid further by the public authorities if the Members do not meet the necessary level of work. I believe that this regulation is a step towards greater justice. So far, we have had some flat-rate regulations. It is in the public sector, but also in the private sector, that, as a rule, when travel costs are incurred, they are directly charged. We now have a distance allowance, which is set to three stages. We have a license from the ÖBB, for which Parliament is making payments to the ÖBB. This is not what the ÖBB has donated for us, but it will be paid by Parliament from the Parliament budget to the ÖBB. In the future, the arrangements will be as follows: The plenary sessions usually involve all Members, but there is, of course, a substantial difference in the time between intensive or less intensive committees in the Committees. The travel activity that someone has to spend will also be more intense in the event of more day-to-day committees than in the case of others. I believe that it is fairer to charge the actual costs and not across Austria even during the holiday period, even for private purposes, to use the free ticket of the railway. The honourable Member is free to buy an annual ticket himself from the railways and to calculate his journeys to Parliament with Parliament. It will, however, be necessary for a uniform system to be found in the President for the fee settlement, to which everyone agrees. One thing will not be possible: that the government parties will make a regulation that is grateful to the members of the opposition, but that they will also criticise it. This will probably not be possible in the future. It will be necessary to find an undisputed single settlement system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is also often said that Members would not make any contribution to the savings package. Klubobmann Khol has already said that, as a Member of Parliament, we have not experienced any increase in references since 1993. In other words, pension contributions have always increased to the extent that no higher payment amount had been given. Provisions have also been put into effect, according to which, for example, the redundancies are valid under the right of employment, and also the pension of a Member from 60 onwards. ................................................................................................................................................................ It is not fair, however, if some Members submit to others that they would disapprove of the charges. I would like to point out an example here: From 1987 to 1991, I was also President of the Salzburg Chamber of Agriculture in addition to my work as a National Council member. At that time, I did not pay any compensation as President. As a result, I was notified by a FPÖ representative for tax evasion. He claimed that if I had made the reference, I would have had to pay of it 50 percent income tax and I would have harmed the state by relinquishing it. There was even a statement of a matter to the Ministry of Finance. This has found that the President's compensation determines the general assembly and that my compensation is not regulated by a salary law. It is already seen that you are more concerned with headlines than with just solutions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also find it morally unacceptable if it is – I quote "NEWS" from 23. November 1995; I can't control it myself and not check it – means: "The Klagenfurt Tax Act. His own tax record is there, and he proves that the fighter of privileges understands very well with his own tax privileges. Don Jörg, the knight of the blue figure who fights the unemployed income of third parties, does not himself live as badly as the benefit of the Bearental and as the clubman of the F in Parliament." It also says: "The model can be recommended for imitation." – I do not think that this model should be recommended for imitation. If a holding has losses for two years in a row, it is presented as a lover in all financial offices, and it is not possible to tax losses of an independent firm against a political income or the income of an employed person in this field. Finally, I think I can say: This is a first step in the reform. It has already been noted several times that an income pyramid is to be created in autumn. In order to produce these income pyramids, economic fidelity workers are to be used which propose a model. I see no chance that a model other than that proposed by economic fidelity will then be decided by Members. – So no completed reform, but a first important step!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5150	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Peter. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5171	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Hardly the journalistic log is empty, a material debate develops. I would particularly like to thank Mr Lösnak and Mr Haupt for this. Austria has something like a net culture, a culture of indifference. Protected, preserved and paid, we like to live, and instead of our own responsibility, we always like to have a debtor, someone else, someone higher, someone who is responsible for it. Many, especially many wealthy, who deserve good, who are upholstered, flee into the social network. So we are, the political caste in this country. Do you really wonder that there are so few self-employed people in Austria? These are actually the "exodes in the spirit", who care for themselves and take responsibility for themselves. It is much more beautiful for the politician to have to talk only about his net, to have taxes and taxes deducted at once, twice a year a gift in the form of a 13th and 14ths. If you lose your mandate, you will also have to be discharged by means of payments and deductions. To be a big fish in the social net is very pleasant, and without a doubt you can be in a loud voice about the many, many peacocks you have to give. Ladies and gentlemen! We in politics too will have to refrain from well-acquired rights. If we in politics, as a well-deserving person in this country – and I say: rightfully well-deserving people – are swinging the cults of well-acquired rights, a reform will not be possible. We have lost nothing in the official service schedule, and our old age or old age, as you want, cannot be honoured by biennial jumps. It is unimaginable that politicians will be paid for how long you sit in here. It will not be better for someone to have 20 years of service at the bumple than a dedicated Member or a young woman who works in Parliament. [[Abg. Leikam: That's not true!]] In this country, not only in the discussion of political salaries has the denial of reality come into fashion, and the courage expressed by Dr. Löschnak in his speech today has become flawed. The path of the slightest resistance has been raised to the principle, and above that is the beautiful Latin sentence: "pekunia non olet" – money does not smell. Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party and of the Social Democrats! In my opinion, this corresponds to your model presented. The policy must serve the Community. That's a little flattered word. To make the res publica available to the public, to make themselves available to the public, even under lower quality of life and under very different conditions from those under which one has lived before, that is for me politics and thank God for many of you, as I hope. For this activity for the res publica, for this activity in the public, we can only obtain a single fee, no matter how often we make ourselves available to the public, regardless of how many functions we believe we have to cumulate in a person. There can only be a single fee for this because it is only a single person who makes himself available to the public. So politics is really the classic self-employed activity that you can't measure and control in hours, not in kilometers, not in meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You must have broken your head when you made the measurement tests in your model of the reward of politicians. Do you want to measure it according to the committee meetings, according to the surveys, after Parliament meetings? What does someone do when he's sitting somewhere in the last row and hasn't opened his mouth for three weeks? Do you want to measure it by the number of words? – Then Parliament meetings will last 24 hours in principle. How can you assess the difference in working intensity between a small group which has to do all the work with one-man teams and a large group where there are six, eight, nine, ten ladies and gentlemen inside? Do you want to measure the number of appearances on television or on panel discussions? Ladies and gentlemen! Is that what we're doing measurable as time? Is it not a long forerunner by foreknowledge, competence, personal concentration, creativity, personality, living and working background, education? What we are doing and discussing here is just the result of life-building, education as a political representative or as a mandate. You really want to measure all this in time? [[Abg. Böhacker: How do you want to measure?]] – I'll be right there, the answer will be right away. Is Parliament's place of work really just Parliament? Is not the working group just as the constituency, the whole country, also the foreign country on trips, where one continues in discussions with politicians from other countries? Are travel grounds really durable, controllable and breakable by a Council of Parliament, why has Parliament A or Deputies B traveled from X to Y? Are driving times, without being absolutely ridiculous, really measurable? Can you normalize housing or office costs? – In reality, it is the individual representative’s very own thing, however he regulates his housing and office conditions at home or in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! The only solution from the case of the reference polemics, in which we have unfortunately become more and more deeply involved in the last months, is the politician as a self-employed person, who is responsible to his voters, with an income without supplements, without biennial jumps, without payoffs, without executions, without expenses, transparent and manageable, comprehensible in an octave handle from the trafic around 10 p. There must be a salary pyramid from which it is apparent what - from the council to the President of the Federal Republic - someone who is active in politics is paid for making himself available to the public. It remains the question of the level of the political fee – after which you asked Hermann Böhacker – and in this discussion there is no place for the envy cooperative, no place for party taxes and no place for double taxation. We must confess that our work is worth something, and we must have the courage to let everyone in Austria know what a politician as a fee refers to every month, regardless of what you want. The Liberal proposal is no longer – and this has already been stressed by Mrs Schmidt – as a proposal for a discussion, but unfortunately there has never been a discussion about it. The unculture, what others say, not to take note of, but to repeat their own opinions all the more often does not seem to be the right thing. Today active fees are relatively high if you count the charges during the rest period, during the retirement period. The bar values of the pensions of politicians of today's situation – from the Bundesrat level, National Council upward – vary between 10 and 21 million schilling, ladies and gentlemen! That's horrendous! If we talk about pension rights, let's talk about bar values. The term has already been invented. Let's talk about what a pension is really worth. There are political mandates who earn more during their rest period than during the active period! We Liberals believe that we need high and decent incomes and that the only additional social protection I would like to give every politician is undoubtedly the ASVG-pension, according to all the rules of the ASVG, for an activity of three to twelve years. We can also discuss this. Ladies and gentlemen! Members should and must also come from a professional environment. They're supposed to feel what they decide here! They should bring experience and knowledge and have contacts with people in the professional environment. Self-employment is desirable: We don't need to break our heads here, everybody's at risk. Independent activities in the private sector are a matter of private agreements. In the public service, however, we have an overlap through the same employer – the public hand. In these cases, I think, a carnation should be carried out, and only in special cases which are to be discussed individually should a maximum employment rate of 50 percent be further possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of political relations is part of a necessary reform in a welfare state, which can no longer be financed, which must be returned to the social state. We will have to reduce acquired rights to meaningful solutions. I believe that the remuneration of the politician should vary depending on the development of prosperity in our country. You didn't think of all of this in your application. I would therefore ask you once again to agree to our request for referral back to committee and to discuss a comprehensive reference reform by autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5227	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Ederer. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5247	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we talk today about the salaries of politicians, we should also talk about what is actually in demand. What is the requirement profile of politicians, what are they supposed to do? Only when you have such a requirement profile can you really define how high the income should be. I have tried this and I would like to sum it up in three points. I believe that the first is the direct parliamentary work of Members. This is about deciding laws, i.e. bearing responsibility, that is to say being aware of what laws they are going in, the consequences of considering the long-term or medium-term trends. The second is professional training. I think we are all called upon to inform ourselves permanently about social development and ultimately to be ahead in the information in order to be able to take any countermeasures in good time. I would like to give you an example: Personally, I am often in a situation where I feel that I am not sufficiently aware of new developments, such as the Internet or the question of the regulation of the Internet, or that I am not at home in these new social developments, in order to finally be able to refer to position. It almost overwhelms one to keep up-to-date with the political debate in these important social areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] The third point is the question of contact with the population. It is about the fact that a good Member of Parliament or a good Member of Parliament is also engaged in persuasive work in the population, that it is declared on the one hand by law and, on the other hand, that it is also advertised for the world's view. That is to say, the work on the ground, in the marketplaces, in assemblies and cetera, is a very important activity of Members. If you take this profile seriously, it is a very energy-consuming, very time-consuming activity, which I believe should be well rewarded. The objective must, I believe, be a clear, simple solution in which everyone or any of us can go before the public and say: I deserve that, and I'm worth it, too. . I think it is also a matter in this debate that we, as politicians in some areas, need to be more self-confidence and to show that we also do something for our money and have a very intense commitment! Now, in this discussion, I believe, there are political forces, which are not so much about the incomes of politicians, but primarily about the principle of discrediting policy – and politicians are now a central element of our democracy. This is about systematically calling into question the political-democratic system with the topic of political income and thus finally achieving destabilisation. We want politicians to be paid well. We want this for several reasons: Firstly, because it is a matter of ensuring that there is a good representation of the various levels of population in this House, because it is a matter of being justly paid and thus of ensuring that not only large-scale landowners sit in this Parliament. Because if you were sitting here, you could assume that at the end of the day they hardly have any more idea of how the most socially weak in this country really is. We therefore want to see large parts of the Austrian population represented here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The second point is, of course, the question when someone is willing to become a politician. That's something we have to deal with. I have recently heard a story about who will be the Minister of Economic Affairs. It is said that a colleague – a manager – said to another colleague who was in the conversation: If you want to earn less, be less at home, and want to be more in the public, do the job! – I mean, it can’t be that we’re going to break down political activity in this way now! What's this about? . I believe that we can also represent a system of self-confidence in which there is a fair reward before the Austrian population. What the Austrian population does not want is the feeling that it is getting dizzy, and I believe that – and we have got a good example for this today – is the case, for example, in the area of the F-Social Fund. I should like to focus on a few areas in this context. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] First point: Klubobmann Haider has read about 1 million Schilling payments. Mr Brauneder, if I may believe the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', has 128 000 S net, 128 000 S times 14 is 952 000 S. So that would be the total sum alone of my colleague Brauneder. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Since January he has been president! Calculating isn't your strength! Since when is he president? Six months!]] Let me say something to you, Mr Deputies: For example, I have... [[New calls to the liberals.]] I'll come back to that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Brauneder has been president since January!]] Nevertheless, it makes up a million. As regards the second comment, Mr deputies, on what honourable Member has said on the point: Brauneder even paid too much in these funds. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What about your fund, Mrs. Colleague? You haven't paid anything since 1989!]] Why to Become You always get so upset when you come to talk to the fund? More serenity, Mr. Klubobmann, more calm! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Listen, look at this: Mr Main said that Mr Brauneder had paid too much in the Social Fund. [[New calls to the liberals.]] On Saturday Brauneder explains in the "Kurier", he does not pay an anonymous fund because that did not fit him. But on Monday it is explained that he has paid too much. – But my knowledge is closed between Saturday and Monday, that is, the question is, when he paid that when he paid too much. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Don't worry about it! What about the Socialist Social Fund?]] - That's the first one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the liberals.]] But this F-social fund in the FPÖ should not be accepted as a whole. ==References====External links== In July 1996 he was transferred to "NEWS" as a teacher 27 000 S, but gave it in charity. It seems to him that it falls on 4 April. July 1996 did not agree that there is a FPÖ Social Fund, although he is the managing director of this party – a bit self-contained! – and although he still collected 4,000 S from this Social Fund some time ago. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Talk about the socialist Social Fund announced by Marizzi! What about this one?]] I'm talking about the "standard" of 21. 9. In 1995, according to the Managing Director of Schweitzer, due to a document by Mr Rauter, F-chef in Burgenland, received 4,000 S from the Social Fund. At that time, he obviously knew what the Social Fund was. ==References====External links== He did not know it on July 26, 1996. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Stay calm! You've already lost the Burgenland election!]] Mr. Klubobmann! If I in my party would have sat behind me like you, someone like colleagues Meischberger, who cashed out of black money, out of tax evasion funds 3 million and still sitting in here, then I would be so small, believe me. [[the speaker makes a corresponding gesture]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where I'd have radio silence! The list – and I would like to inform my colleagues – of all that has been donated from this FPÖ social fund is already a embarrassing story: ==References== 11. the Klubobmann has said that 58 000 S has been donated to the Neusiedl Disability Funding Association at the lake. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We have to pay out the thousands you promised!]] But the watchman of this club said the next day: I'm sorry, we never got anything. – As a result, the FPÖ said: Yes, we paid something. – Then the bookkeeping of this association was carefully checked. Result: The FPÖ paid in 1989! In 1989 you paid 58 000 s, and in November 1995 the clubman said: We have paid 58 000 S from the Social Fund to a disability association, which, by the way, at that time, in 1989, has not yet been done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last question, ladies and gentlemen. A question to Mr Klubobmann Haider: He says... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We'll pay your thousands, the thousands you promised! They cost a lot of money!]] He says he deserves – wait, I have to look for it –... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Gitti! We have to pay the thousands you promised!]] We do not have an EU debate now. I would like to return to this at the research institutes. [[New calls to the liberals.]] No, I am not at all confused, but you are obviously upset when you address your social funds! According to Salzburger Nachrichten of 6. 7. In 1996, Haider counts his own income at 185 000 S gross, which is 72 895,10 S net. That is what he delivers completely, he says, to the FPÖ Social Fund. Now I have a simple, very clear question to Mr Klubobmann: Is it taxing these 12 000 s? – If so, then he lied to the Austrian population, because then he also has 6 400 S of income from his Members' salary. That's exactly the way that the Austrian people don't want and should stop – and you're even because you're always playing the sauberman! Have you abandoned it, Mr. Klubobmann, or have you not abandoned it? [[Abg. Dr. Haider keeps an account extract up, heading towards the speaker.]] Not the credit card! Did you drop it, asserted by the tax declaration? - Don't come with the one-on-one-do!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5468	Mr Meischberger spoke in favour of an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Please start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5493	Mrs Ederer, in her uncoordinated series of sentences, gave of herself that I had collected 3 million schillings of black money. That's not true. – True, I have neither collected 3 million schillings nor ever received black money.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5546	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5568	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I have followed the debate closely and I agree with Mr Peter's statement, who rightly said that it was not until later that material aspects came into the discussion, after the founders of the initiative proposal, Dr. Khol and Dr. Kostelka, of course – that is logical – cannot jump over their own shadows and criticize their work. I mean, if you make a break, but if you turn to the approval of your colleagues, it's kind of difficult to admit that you're not very satisfied. In my personal opinion, Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, has also made it easy to feel that he is aware that this procedure, which has been chosen at the time of this proposal for initiative and amendment, may not have been quite correct. Whether that will ever be law, I dare to doubt very much. He has shown slight insight in the sense that he meant that the opposition fractions are intended to be included in the negotiations on the income pyramid. I think Dr. Khol has learned from the last few days. He has recognized what comes out when one has the privilege of being the only professional group in that country to be able to determine its own relations. Who else can do that? - No one! No one is in a happy position to be able to set their own salary – unless you are in a completely independent position, provided you are in a certain dependency ratio. But we are in a dependency relationship, namely, in a dependency relationship with the voters and the voters. And the voters and voters, the Austrians and Austrians, have probably been served a macabre spectacle in recent weeks. This is the point, ladies and gentlemen, who, personally, as a Member of Parliament after six years of age, pains me the most. Mr Ederer said this earlier: It is – and I am absolutely right in giving it – that we should not constantly get our own profession out of business, because that does not prove to be too much self-confidence. This does not show that we appreciate our own work as we actually expect others to do. I say something to you, ladies and gentlemen: I work 70 to 80 hours a week. I've had other occupations before: I was already a waitress, I was already a German teacher, I was already a civil servant; I had never worked 70 to 80 hours a week before. But I've never earned as much as I do now. And I think I'm worth every schilling that the Republic pays me, because I work with full commitment, with full force. [[Abg. Steibl: Bravo!]] I also believe that what the Republic gives me as a Member of Parliament is sufficient for my outcome. I am full of fascination when I hear from colleagues that they can do two or three jobs at the same time with full force and with full commitment. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad for the first time that I am not a trade union worker, but I have been a hospitalist there for many years. Mr Nürnberger, who is one of the great trade union bosses of this Republic, personally hurt me by saying: I have a main profession – he has not said how much he gets in his main profession – and then I have a secondary job, a secondary job – MP to the National Council! –, and for the secondary activity... [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] I assume that he works with the same commitment as the other colleagues who do this as the main activity, and for that he is paid as much as those who work 70 or 80 hours a week as Members. Now explain to those who work 40, 50 hours a week somewhere on the construction site and then on the weekend – whether this is correct and legal or not – a biterl squeez and deserve something to do with how all this should fit together. This is exactly the point where Gitti Ederer is right: You have to find clear, simple solutions. And I also urge these clear, simple solutions, because it's about our profession, it's about our image, it's about that I'm tired when I come somewhere that people first, when they hear it, you're a politician, ladies and gentlemen, thinking: Ah, Members of Parliament are you, politician, sitting in the plenary and reading paper – and for that you get 100 000 S! - I'm tired of it! They have the power today to finally put a sign that it is not so much that this work we are doing here is a valuable work that we do not make it our own purpose, but that we do it for the Austrian people who give us the mandate, this free mandate, and that we are also proud to be able to do so. If, in an additional sentence, one of the Austrian trade union bosses is dismissed all this as a secondary employment for which he... [[Abg. That's something he didn't say!]] That's Nuremberg's words. Read it! You have paid close attention, Mr President. Retirement! [[Abg. That's something he didn't say!]] I'm still listening! I see a bit bad, but I hear very well, Mr President. [[Abg. I can't judge that!]] If this is done as a side job, then the hoon is, because here he should work with full power and full of energy, so that he is worth his money. That is why the whole discussion is about the self-evaluation of what we are doing. Then he doesn't need to have a bad conscience, and then it won't be possible for individual populists – the individual ones are not so few, they're strong enough – to get so dirty all the time. The arguments you've got are leaner, and the people notice that because people aren't as stupid and as stupid as you think they can sell. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that this law is being passed today – I am now very close to repeating what has already been said by my previous speaker from the Green Group, but I also believe that there are many others here – because really so much remains and is missing. The main point of my criticism is that of transparency. What the Austrian population wants is: When someone meets a politician, a politician, and asks the harmless question: What do you deserve?, then he wants an answer, and then all of this has to be quite clear. [[Abg. That's clear!]] But obviously not even colleagues understand what it is all about. An example of this has just been provided by Mr Schwarzenberger a few minutes ago. He says here – and you have to think about what that means: In the future, a Member of Parliament will continue to be free to have a network card of the ÖBB, and he will only have to pay it himself. And then he can, again, calculate every trip to Parliament. - Yes, 1st class price. That is exactly what I know so well from my profession as an official: that the officials for a mission have the opportunity to get paid out first class, but driving second class, and the difference is, so to speak, an income component. [[Abg. Böhacker: Not all!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] Subjectively felt for the individual. And that's exactly what Mr Klubobmann is looking at, which is what this transparency is. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: But there won't be any more!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: There's no more!]] What we still have as applicable right is much more transparent, for there is a wage mark that everyone gets, and on this one wage mark stands on what he deserves. Everything is possible in the future – as it is called in the lottery. We don't know what's going to happen at all. Commissions will be consulted on directives. Commission: This is a second point that concerns me personally or might concern me first and the second is regulated in a way that I really think is immense. These ladies of honour in the commissions – Klubobmann Khol, as I have read in an illustrated one, have already made a proposal, for example, who should sit in there as honorary men as former President Dr. Lichal – will then judge it – that is what you have proposed – whether this work of a Member, who is an official, actually corresponds to what he says. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Go, go, please!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Why are you discrediting Mr. Lichal?]] Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol! I don't know how you imagine that. If a Member goes to his department head, do you think that in the circumstances of power there, a small department head will dare to demand against the "great" deputies - now under geese feet - if he is in a direct dependency relationship in politics? [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: That's a premise!]] That's such an absurd idea! It's far from any reality! [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: It's more reverse!]] I don't know if he's ever been – he's also a public servant – in a service, I've been long enough to assess the impact. [[Calls and calls between the ÖVP and the Greens.]] I don't know why this light is constantly shining, because we have at least 40 minutes of speaking time. [[pointing to the lamp at the speaker’s coil]] Maybe that's a mistake. Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the second part of my speech, and I would like to explain why the Green Group is today bringing forward two motions for resolutions on the recovery of unlawful references in two cases by colleagues of the National Council. The one case is the case of Höchtl, the second case is the case of fresheners. In the Höchtl case, I think everything is clear. I believe there is no longer any need for an explanation, so I am now reading this motion for a resolution in order to comply with the form. [[Quoted print version removed]] Causa Höchtl: No need for explanation, already explained enough to the public. But now comes the second case, namely that of my colleague, Mrs Frischenschlager. My colleague, Mr Frischenschlager, is therefore the second case, where a resolution which is almost identical to words is tabled, because he himself has not chosen the regulation that would have been the correct one - now correctly in the sense of the legal procedure - to say: I can't work, I won't work, there's no time, there's no reference to the job, therefore retirement, i.e. calculation of an amount, which is then a fictitious pension amount, which is actually paid out. No, it has not chosen this scheme, but has chosen to reduce its salary to 75 percent and its continued activity. That's where he says – and this is to be read in yesterday's APA – about the periods around which it's about – it's about the time from 1991 to today: "He didn't read these three semesters and only for this he had a "need for explanation", said freshener." Ladies and gentlemen! He is therefore a "case" for me, because he himself admits that although 75 percent of his assistant's content was related to it, he did nothing for it. Now, of course, I could say that self-respect is good, but he has known that he has something to do, because, according to his own information, he has done at least one job the years before. The law does not say how much, but the law formulates the reverse and says: The required free time must be granted. So the law does not say how much one should work, at least after the law in force so far. That is why I think it would be quite appropriate to consider, in the case of Mr Frischenschlager, whether the references have been properly or contrary to the legal provisions or not. It's no more or less. The two cases of fresheners and hoechtl are not equal, because if someone spends 21 years on a job, where he does not know the job at all, this is another case for me that has a different "quality". Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fischschlager may have made a mistake with his honest admission from his subjective point of view, but not only the cases of höchtl and fresh beaters are to be clarified, but also to all other mandaters who have been granted and are granted the free time necessary for the exercise of the mandate, it is to be checked whether they have actually performed a job. This will not be a problem for the Secretary of State. Should it become apparent that there has been no equivalent, then, Mr State Secretary, one will probably be in times of a savings package, because one deletes the rent money, as one abolishes the free ride for students, because there is a reserve for school books, because even one will require 50 s for each health certificate, one will have a sense of responsibility to claim back these amounts as well. Of course, as a politician, I could now make myself and say: Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have the courage to repay money for no service. At least be decent now and pay back either to the Republic or devote the charity, as some colleagues have done. But if this is a request, a request or a request made by me, there is still the obligation of the Republic to demand back what it is entitled to, on behalf of the Austrians, if there is a legal basis for it and therefore there is a need for action. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Another last word on party taxes, taxes, contributions and more. There is here – and I have read it in the paper – a colleague among us who has said everything there is to say with a sentence, and this one sentence says more than a thousand words, if you go after the proverb, that is colleague Elmecker, chairman of the Committee on the Interior and for years, I think, a member of the National Council for decades. He just said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, He needs his unemployed income, which is just as high as the party tax he has to pay. – That's all I can say! I call for your approval of our motions for resolutions, and I ask you to vote against this Push's law. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[14:13]] The second motion for a resolution tabled reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5845	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I just wanted to say that the limit on speaking time is a voluntary one. So the time you have talked about beyond that will be counted on the total time of your group. The two motions for resolutions you have tabled are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Frieser. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e5873	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, I am a freelancer, so I am not a triggering moment for this discussion, so – unfortunately Mrs Stoisits has gone out – I am also going to say a few words on the two requests made by Mrs Stoisits. Without I now wish to defend Mr Frischenschlager, Mr Höchtl or other Members of the House with similar situations, I find it really inappropriate – perhaps too gentle – to say that I really find it repulsive to me that you are doing a human hatred here – Mrs Stoisits, I am talking about your requests – because I believe that you are putting yourself on a level with Mr Haider, and I believe that you do not really want it for yourself. [[Abg. May. Stoisits is entering the meeting room again]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: You did it to the unemployed!]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: 10 million have been taken away from the unemployed!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: At the karenz money, you were not concerned about taking away something!]] Let me tell you again: I do not want to protect either one or the other, but I believe that this is not really so wanted in your deepest heart. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: In the increased karenz money there was no bad conscience if you make the toothbrush control! There's no pity!]] I have now spoken of your proposals, Mrs Stoisits, and you should consider whether you really want to put yourself on a level with Mr Haider. But you can still make this clear, or Mr. Wabl will perhaps say again on the subject what he has done in the last... [[Abg. Wabl: I'm talking about the flood of law!]] I would also like to talk about how you, Mr Wabl, have, in the last ten years, been very likely to get your unemployed income and it is supposed to have been sent to a social fund – and only then, when the subject has become a subject, have you taken the lead in Graz and distributed 20-S notes on media. You should have done this ten years ago and not only after that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is also written to you in the main book: your very special hypocrisy and hypocrisy! [[Abg. Dr Petrovic: (to the speaker's desk and to the speaker a few papers) There is also the money from Mr Wabl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I will vote in favour of this amendment because it is correct in the approach, although this discussion of the last few weeks has appeared to me as a further contribution to self-harming our policy in general and by our politicians in particular. I do not want to quote once again the headlines of the newspapers of the last few weeks – some of these have already been made by my previous speakers. In my opinion, why this abolition of unemployment income for officials seems urgently necessary – in addition to moral aspects – is also because in Parliament there is a general overrepresentation of representatives from the public sector. Our aim must not be a closed civil society, but must be an open, representative representative. This has already been mentioned by my clubman Khol, and this has led colleague Ederer to the meeting, and I think we can really confess to it! That is the case – and I do not want to approach anyone personally – of course it is no coincidence that the entire Bureau and all the club members come from the public sector. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'm not!]] Mr. Haider, too! Because what's your job name for 20 years? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A forestry business is really not a public company, dear Mrs. Freiauflerin!]] You fell into your lap by luck, because you were an assistant at the university at first, then you were the State Secretary, then you were a member of the state government – and now you are Clubbmann. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And you're a freelancer who's a cigarette smoker!]] They – as many here in the house – also come from the public sector, even if you want to depress it now. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And these situations, namely the situation of Mr Haider or the situation of the Third President or Mr Bauer, show that self-righteousness and Pharisee of the liberals are not appropriate and that the overrepresentation of the protected sector is not a political problem but, in general, a problem of our parliamentaryism. [[Abg. Böhacker: What do you mean, "Pharisäertum"? That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You have 25 people on such posts!]] I dare to say, Mr Wabl, in order to come back to the flood of law, that this is also a reason why we have such an infinite need for regulation here in the House, and that it is also a reason why the citizens are not satisfied with the work of the parliamentarians. [[Abg. Wabl: Then why do you always agree? They have also agreed to the scheme of taxation.]] If we do not get through any of these issues with a clear, durable solution, we will soon be sitting back in the same next debate due to an occasion – only then that the reputation of politics has fallen by a few percentage points again. [[Abg. Wabl: You should do it like Mr Löschnak, otherwise you have lost the right to speak in this way!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We should actually want to achieve the opposite objective: Political commitment in the form of a mandate should also be attractive to other groups. This has something to do with the payment, namely, very well with payment of the service, but it should be crucial to our reputation. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need any further competition from the self-esteem of politics. We urgently need transparent and performance-oriented solutions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Then why don't you vote against it? Then why do you agree?]] Above all, we need more self-esteem! This has led many previous speakers to the meeting. [[Abg. Wabl: Then why do you agree? When it comes to transparency, you are always voting against it!]] You know, Mr. Wabl, you're one of my... No, it's just in vain labor of love. For what? Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I am quite optimistic that we will be able to develop an acceptable policy-making system during the next negotiations. I remember the statements made earlier: I can entirely right Mrs Ederer's content, in many passages I can do right to Mrs Schmidt and her colleague Helmut Peter. There have also been a number of points in the debate made by my colleague, Mr Head, on which we can find consensus. I therefore remain optimistic and believe that we will find a solution in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6130	Mr Wabl referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, please begin with the claim that you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6158	Mrs. Fighter Against the Law Flood! You have claimed here that I have 'presumptuously' donated this reference to a social fund or to charitable organisations or to citizens' initiatives. I'm correcting: I did indeed make a request for a reduction to zero ten years ago, and I then made it public that these funds go to environmental initiatives, citizens' initiatives and others. It's run over every schilling record. That's about 900 000 S. I have also paid 1.2 million schilling of my Members' salary – from my honourable Member's point of view! – to citizens’ initiatives, to the Legal Assistance Fund. This is about as much as the whole FPÖ together with its social fund. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Take the "presumptuous" back, apologise, and no longer agree to the flood of law in the future. That would be good for you!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6206	Mr Delegate Dr. Graf, now you're talking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6227	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. State Secretary! Let's not turn the wheel of history back 100 years: At that time, the population – and with this we all identify ourselves – has taken a massive stand for the universal right to vote. A result of the universal suffrage is the fact that, as Mr Ederer has already said today, we have representatives of all professional classes in Parliament. In other words, Parliament's composition is such that it represents a representative cross-section of the population. If it were then, bound to the tax or to the sex, restrictions of election, which were to be thanked to God, the picture has changed to this day. What's it look like today? – Nearly 50 percent of all colleagues here in the House come from the public service. However, no one can agree that 50 percent of the population are active in the public service. So the representative cross-section is by no means given! If one spins the whole thing a little further and, in addition to the public service, produces the chambers, social security funds, the parties or other preparatory organizations, trade unions et cetera, one notes: About 75 percent of colleagues work in this expanded public service. I say that this is already a problem of democratic will-building. Why is the situation so? – It is indeed to be asked how it is that almost 75 percent of the mandates here in this House or in other legislative bodies in Austria come from this area. It must be noted that these areas are just massively "politicized" areas. We have a "politicized" civil service – and that is something we have to see. This is a reason why many officials or public servants are pushing in mandates. But we have also seen a terrible practice of Pragmatization – not from the onset of Pragmatization, but from the result. It is to be questioned in our society – that is simply what we have to do, and we have to try to make our choices – whether it is really time-consuming that a university professor in Austria must be an official, whether it is time for an actor to be an official, that an official of the waste disposal will be official, that judges are officials that are primary doctors. That's to be questioned. I believe that the practice in this area has in recent times gone a wrong way. I mean – and there is a reason for our problems to be dealt with today, already in the heart of the matter – that we must also ask whether it makes sense in the future to grant Pragmatization or the position of civil servants only more than those areas where officials are actually to be found in the truest sense, namely officials in the administration of sovereignty, who are actually entrusted with the implementation of the laws in the most original sense. Then we have to ask the question of whether we should not even discuss inconsistencies, the separation of violence between an official in the narrower sense, who works in the administration of the High Authority, and a representative working in the legislation. The fact that we can discuss this issue and probably have to do with it in the future shows us other countries. In the Federal Republic of Germany, a clean solution and an incompatibility was reached in this respect. Not the professional ban itself is the signpost for the future, but it is a ban on the exercise of the profession during the duration of the mandate. That is the core of the question! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The third reason why there are many officials, whether from the public service or from the public service, coming here in this House is the privileges. I take as an example something that mostly goes down and is not mentioned by anyone – it is a real privilege of public servants, which is not eliminated by this law either: Article 59a B-VG. It is the first sentence of this novel that causes an uproar to me as a person who is not affected and shows that it is a privilege. It means: "To the public servant is to apply for a mandate in the National Council to grant the necessary free time for the application for the mandate." – I ask you: Why is the public servant privileged to someone working in the private sector or to a freelancer in this regard? Why is he exempted for the application for a mandate? Mr President of the Council! I ask you: Why just this professional group? Why can't an official, or a public servant, as well as many others who have no privileges and do so, on their vacations, in the time balance? – So this privilege will not be eliminated, and I think this is a serious mistake, as the current classification will continue and the privilege discussion will never be silent in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Many privileges were already thought of by the previous speakers: There is a right of return, there is a pension right; besides that, there are many other privileges that are being blessed again and are not understood by anyone who does not come from the public sector – and that is in Austria despite this practice of Pragmatization God is still the vast majority of the population – at all, not understood. However, I have been concerned that, from the speaker's point of view, Mr Hostasch and also from colleagues from Nuremberg, in the form of actual corrections, their own function is suddenly weakened. Mr Hostasch and Mr Nürnberger said that they had only a political function, namely that of the Member of the National Council. If they say that the job of the President of the Chamber of Workers is not a political function, because it is in a service relationship, and that the function of a union president is not a political function, because it is a service relationship, I must say: If there is to be a distance allowance at all, then these two rulers, with many others representing this opinion, have earned one in millions, because in the assessment of this position they have distanced themselves from the population for light years. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These are high-level positions, and it would be very bad for the president of the trade union to claim the opposite. I do not think that President Vergestnich is attached to this sham or fiction of the two honourable Members, Hostasch and Nuremberg. These are high-level positions. They are representatives of the social partners, and the social partners are an essential component and the driving force in our political system. To put himself to the speaker's desk here and to say that this position is not a political function is ultimately a fraud against the matter itself and our Members, as we are here, is not useful. Ladies and gentlemen! Not enough of the previous privileges that are perpetuated, there are further privileges on us. It will drive Schindluder to the public as to how to interpret something. The following provision shall be found in the present legislative text: Amendment of Parliament's Staff Act "Electoral Office". § 9a states that "proven office costs at the centre of political activity, such as cost of renting or providing an office and operating costs of the office, as well as other costs arising directly from the exercise of the mandate, including travel costs, are replaced according to guidelines". We do not know the guidelines. Even after consultation at the committee meeting itself, the President could only announce a regulation, but not even describe such a directive in the approach. The fact that this is a formal delegation, which is in itself a question of constitutional concern, is only mentioned by the way. Nowhere does Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol declare to the public that these offices are not allowed to or cannot be in party locations and cannot be in apartments. In the text of the law, such a formulation cannot be found. If one looks at the explanatory remarks that are essential in the laws, it is noted that no one word concerning this provision can be found in the explanatory remarks. I therefore say today that it will be possible again in the future for SPÖ officials and ÖVP officials to set up their office in the constituency in their party locations or in the locals of pre-constituencies, at the expense of the taxpayer to relieve their own sacks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Edler, who is not here now, who comes from my constituency, will probably have his office in Donaufelder Straße 259, where the tenants' association and the women's advice are located, where the SPÖ tenant is, in reality, available to the whole SPÖ house, but it obviously does not belong to it. He will probably be able to finance his office there. Today he is already sitting there without it being financed, in the future he will sit there and it will be financed. This presumption is likely to arise, because the § 9a Parliamentary Staff Act will not remove the principle of equality, even if the regulation adopted by the President is still so beautiful. I'm sure: If you would have wanted your own apartments and party locations to be excluded, you would have at least kept this in the explanatory remarks and not only in the public – as it does announce politicians – constantly saying something that is not in the law! But we are also surprised at the entry into force of this law. For example, some provisions concerning unemployment income to be questioned come with 1. August in force. But in many cases – in the case of Kostelka, the case of President Fischer and many more – this regulation only comes with 1. January 1997 in force. It must be borne in mind that, by means of structural adjustment, the population is faced with a burden package, partly with retroactive laws, but one does not have the cutting to do this immediately or even retroactively. I am convinced that the population would have supported this decision. But you can take more than half a year to regulate this. On my question at the Committee meeting, I believe that, perhaps quickly, Mr Kostelka has put out the truth: He has said – and in my opinion the pigmeat – that it is necessary to create the plan posts for the multitude of cases in question, not only here in the National Council, but also in the country day and in other representative bodies, so that people can be given the opportunity to return to their service after percentages, and this is not going faster, for this reason one needs time and therefore the 1. January 1997. – This is the falseness that no one understands anymore! What's the result? – We agree with planposts, then a Member of Parliament, who has previously announced that he will work 30 percent, will be able to work on these posts and thus will only allow him to provide a service which he does not really want to provide, otherwise he could have done it to this day. It is not true that it was a dogma to take these 75 percent without consideration or even to use early retirement. It is true, rather, that today's proposal states that in the future the service authority will no longer have to decide whether to put someone out of service or not, but that only the public servant can do so for himself by means of the application. This gives officials a new privilege, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, with which this House will still have a lot of difficulties. It is likely that no one from the public sector will be excluded from the service of public servants with his own request, without any rights. So far, the Service Authority has been able to establish: You can't exercise your position, we don't have adequates either, you don't actually exercise your function, we're putting yourself in the air – out of service without references! This was the previous possibility of the Service Authority. In In the future, this will only be done at the request of the privileged official or public staff. I think it is a bad development to give this opportunity to a public servant and thus to the public servant, who, as we have seen, was weak in the past on the question of his own assessment, who cannot get through to what he owes to the electorate, that it is at the disposal of this public servant to make the appropriate requests. If he makes these requests, he will make them wrong, without control, in the best case controlled by an elder's council, where in the future he will have to decide privilegedly on the privileged ones today, which will also be a problem of separation of violence, because finally the enforcement of the members of the legislation must be monitored. This is something for me as a parliamentarian that I cannot befriend. We should solve our problems here in the House itself, in committees, such as in the Inconsistency Committee, and not delegate them to execution. Sooner or later the question will arise: Who controls control? Is that the legislator himself again, or who is that? – This is a problem that has not yet been thought of, but which will again be a ignition and explosive in ten years when it comes to reintroducing political privileges. Ladies and gentlemen! We owe it to the electorate to finally solve this whole problem, including the problem of Pragmatization and the position of civil servants. This system is in need of reform. Today and here we only treat the tip of an iceberg. There will be little change because the coalition is not yet ready for a major change. Clean solutions are needed, even with regard to a ban on professional practice where the functions are actually incompatible – I believe that this is the case in the core areas of the High Authority. Germany has already brought to our attention the solution of this problem. I am convinced that there are not only astreine solutions in Germany, but there are at least there in the approach and by law for a clean solution, and that is also what we want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, to the law itself, as a problem is still not done, namely the future double pension or double pension scheme of our Federal Chancellor. In order to be able to do so at least once with exemplary effect, we shall make a request for the majority, so that at least in this area a change is made and in this respect acceptance is brought about in the population: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What does that mean? – By adding a sentence to § 38 of the Reference Act, it is to be made clear indisputably that the comparative calculations provided for in this Act are to be made even if the right to income or rest relates to an activity which is the subject of the legislation. (g) the conditions mentioned above were met. In the case of a settlement or pension benefit, it is therefore necessary to consider whether, in the period of activity in the company through which the claim was founded, for example, the Supreme Institutions of the execution of the federal government, including the Federal Government, exercised a right of appointment and confirmation in respect of corporate bodies or the Federal Government was involved by at least 50 percent, even if these conditions were no longer met later, because for example the participation of the federal government was reduced. High house! For example, the new regulation concerns an activity as a member of the Board of Management of the former Landesbank, since the federal government was involved in it with more than 50 per cent, which is no longer present; that is to say, the Federal Chancellor in his pension can no longer refer to double terms. Of course, this calculation of comparison must also be made at the time of the inflow of income or rest, i.e. that it is also necessary to check whether that is the case. (g) there are conditions in view of the undertaking at all. Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not want a top representative to actually obtain an unjustified pension in that country and it is likely that you will also agree to this amendment, then we will be able to settle at least this point. Then at least this day had a sense in this point. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6446	The amendment tabled by Mr Graf is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Lacner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6470	Mr President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Haider! I hereby declare to be a "privileged person" in this House, according to your diction. As one of the few, I have the "privileg" to take seven and a half hours to get out of my constituency to Vienna. I also have the "privileg" to be the only Social Democratic MP from Vorarlberg. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Don’t worry about it!]] Mr. Haigermoser! We'd rather leave this to the voters and not the "F", because that's not that good anyway. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also have the "privileg" to work up to 90 hours and more per week for this Republic and its citizens; after all, I still have the "privileg", one of 183 out of almost 8 million Austrians, who are allowed to do political work as a representative in this House. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! These are my "privilegies" – neither less nor more, and I am indeed proud of these "privileges". One thing I forgot: However, I have this questionable "privileg", that of you and various boulevard leaves always as "Abcasher", "State Parasit" and similar, because all politicians have thousands of side jobs and apparently still get money for them. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! It seems to me to be strange if you always blame us for this. Be self-employed with Holger Bauer in this matter have a leading man sitting in the Federal Chancellor's Office in terms of unemployed income, as well as the Third President of the National Council, who continued to deserve and earn the most for his professor's work – although, as newspapers reported, he could not even hold half of the hours of his only duty exercise at the time when he was only a Member. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is wrong!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: This is the absolute untruth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Rentner Schweitzer!]] I could carry out the mention of examples even further, but it was not my style so far – and it will not be in the future either –, others with dirt... [[Abg. Böhacker: Give more examples!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Schweitzer!]] I could now mention Mr Ebner, Mr Traussnig, Mr Neyer in Vorarlberg. There are still many living examples from your party that you could cite, but I don't want to do it because it's so pointless. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! I have just brought you these examples to show you: You yourself sit in that glass house, which you bombard yourself again and again and again with dirt. Now, however, I would like to come to the very subject of this debate today. There are completely legal relics in Austria – as so often – in the area of the involvement of politicians from past times, which today are inappropriate, inappropriate and, of course, incomprehensible to many. Among them – after today’s debate, one can say: belonging to – is also the unemployed official’s income of a politician. This relic is finally abolished today. Nor do I see why it should not be abolished. As a politician, you should have a decent salary, you should not be dependent on unemployment income, as you may call it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I would also like to point out another major danger of the current debate. Today you only become a politician for two reasons: because you are a masochist and/or an idealist. Without wanting to become a pathetic, for my part I can really claim with good knowledge to work with very high goals in this house. In this regard, however, I see a problem: The current debate is increasingly heading in the direction that politics should no longer be the main profession and can be, but is something that is considered a secondary job. Ladies and gentlemen! If the social and economic side no longer allows it to speak of an appropriate political content, if it is no longer possible to live for this country only within the framework of its parliamentary activity, then soon the above mentioned Masochists and those who can afford to work in politics or go into politics are actually sitting in this House. We must therefore consider with every step in the field of references the impact of this or that step on the possibilities of the freelancers, the workers, the employees and also the officials, when they play with the idea of changing to politics, especially to the top policy. Today, with the officials, we are creating an unjustified privilege from the world by letting go of unemployed incomes. In all other measures, we must take a very careful look at whether we do not exclude entire professional groups from political activity by means of an over-hated measure due to one or other occasion. Then we have a new "aristocracy", and that is why this package of measures, which we decide here today, may have to be re-adjusted in one point or another in autumn. Such a sensitive measure as the referee law therefore requires a constant rethinking and adaptation to the respective social circumstances. A best solution, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there will be in this matter. I see in this measure, which is in the process of decision-making today, only the first step towards a comprehensive re-regulation of political relations. Finally, I would like to inform you about the financial solutions I have made in my work as a municipal servant in order to get ahead of all rumors and speculations, accusations and accusations. I have been selected without reference – and this will continue to be the case after today's decision-making process. This, as I believe, is more of a right to act against the indifferent and false attacks that are constantly being made on a flat-rate basis, which specifically creates a bad mood against an entire professional group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6600	Mr Dkfm. Bauer has spoken about an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Please start with the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6624	High house! My previous speaker claimed that I was a member of a unemployed person's income. That's wrong. True is rather – I repeat that –: I've been here for 20 years without any objection to my commitments, my work after... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ask my superiors! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: On Saturday he'll get the paper!]] That's a black and a red one, ask! [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Leikam: Get the paper with the dog on the leash!]] For 20 years I have been living up to my obligations and duties as a public servant undisputed, have never returned or rejected a job, my assigned work has always been fulfilled and has never been delayed or not done at all. [[Abg. Leikam: Get the paper with the dog on the leash!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. Leikam) Be quiet, you're one of those!]] Even if you say it five times: It doesn't make your view of things any more true just because you want it that way.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6717	Mr Dr. Freisenschlager has been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6746	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! It is already clear that this debate is very, very moving us all, and it is also clear that the public is pursuing the Members' relations with great emotion. But in this debate we should consistently respect not only the role of Members, our political activity, but also Parliament as such. We should not forget that either. I think it is interesting that the problem has been raised several times in today's debate: What is the role of the honourable Member? What is political achievement? . I think that is precisely the central point, because in many speeches we do not actually have the clarity that we say quite openly and honestly: Whoever takes the parliamentary task seriously, who takes political work seriously, is usually fully burdened by this activity. That is the central point, and I therefore believe that all these regulations, which try to work with percentages, such as 75 percent refer to, for example, because one assumes that one could work 75 percent next to parliamentarian activity, are unrealistic. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: It's nowhere!]] I say that all these arrangements, Mrs Colleague, are unrealistic and therefore dishonest than those which, as Members of a small group, may be able to point out more closely that they are taking this House's activity seriously, will at least be able to retain the rest of its professional activity, and perhaps still have some kind of voluntary political function. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where's that?]] I believe that the main mistake made with this proposal for an initiative is that we are doing this or at least trying to do so – and this is a continuation of the error of 1983 – as if the Members were pretty much officials and we were engaged in an official activity. That's not right! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] This is a much more comprehensive activity than finding yourself here in Parliament with a mission, attending a meeting, providing its contributions – and then going back home with the Baghrel, going into his professional field and working there. This is not just a realistic picture of Members, it is a false one, and it would be a misdevelopment if we were to see the Members in this way. Of course: In essence, the honourable Member has to deal with Parliament's activity; it is our most immediate task to do parliamentary work here, but we are living in representative democracy, and we MEPs are, so to speak, the cornerstone of the population. Our task in addition to parliamentary activity is at least so important that we in the public, together with the population, take up opinions – like a sponge, I would say – and try to bring them into the political process. It can be described as public relations in the broadest sense, one as a trade union official, the other as a traditional politician, the third by dealing with experts on certain political issues or interests. If we do not understand that this activity goes far beyond purely parliamentary activity, then we are not only doing something bad to Members but also to Parliament. And this is what I am talking about in this debate. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] After this introduction, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the issue of the compatibility of civil service and parliamentary activity. And here I would like to say – allow me to say a few words about the statements made by Mr Stoisits, who reminds me with a motion for a resolution: It is already from a certain degree of inadequacy to this request. You will not succeed in blaming me with dirt, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, because, since I have been in this Parliament or at least during a substantial part of this time, I have not only tried to combat this absurd system of double relations in the context of my possibilities politically, but I can say that I have also tried to remain decent within this system. I have worked here regularly, I have for many years left off as I could, I then, when other legal requirements have grown out of this legal claim, have to reclaim this system, and I have tried in the context of the opportunities to continue my profession to a modest extent and with remains – I like to admit that. And that's why I think it's a little dirty, as you're trying to put me on the prange. That's what I wanted to tell you! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen: Staff or public officials and delegates. We need to remember this: When I came to Parliament in 1977, it was so that the public servant had to be put out of service. He did not have the opportunity from the Constitution to continue his activity somehow. – By the way only: I have read every semester in all these years in which this legal situation existed, but the essential thing is: At that time, the division of power was assumed. It has been said – as has already been said in the debate today – that: On the other hand, the public staff may not act as a representative at the same time and act as an executive. I'm saying that you just can't say that. Of course, it is a difference whether Mr Van der Bellen is developing teaching activity or whether he is a department head in a department. That's a difference. I mean, you can find a clean line of separation within the public service. In the case of executive functions in central offices equipped with ad hoc power, this is not possible, as it is true what is said: It is impossible to criticise a minister in the Committee on the morning and to be appointed officials in the afternoon, and possibly - as someone has said - to deal with the request made in plenary on the morning. It doesn't make any sense. But I do not see why in the secondary areas, why in the field of teaching can not also – I always say – "employment leftovers" continue to be exercised. A professional ban will be imposed on a professional group, which I do not think is right. [[Abg. Wabl: This is not a professional ban!]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Wabl! For me, it is not a question of double merit, it is a question of incompatibility. For me, the solution to the problem is to introduce inconsistencies with which we clearly separate the public functions we can assume and which are not compatible with the mandate. Then we have a clear arrangement. – Incompatibilities – this is the solution approach. [[Abg. Wabl: Right!]] Secondly, double reference: I have been in this Parliament for a very long time, and we must be aware that every Parliament or group, we know, needs a number of Members who give absolute priority to parliamentary activity. Otherwise, a group will not be able to work and, I say, a parliament will not be able to work. And that is why it is sometimes unfair because we all know that the public servants – that is to say, in their honor here – have been through many decades of those who have, of course, been primarily involved in the work in Parliament. For the liberals, the economists rightly say that their professional situation is a much more difficult one and they cannot adapt so well to the Parliament's plan. The public officials were usually able to do so, so they came up with more. We should also remember that when we change these things, and that is even my credo in this whole story. The current solution makes us legitimate officials arriving here on duty, and we act as if the purely parliamentary activity were our function. That's not her. None of the 183 Members we are sitting in here have the same living conditions, which the professional, the private and, above all, the distance from Vienna. That is why the direction of our request is that we say: Of course, a Member of Parliament should be paid decently for quality work, which must be trained to inform himself, whose work goes far beyond sitting in a committee or in plenary, and it should be taken into account that Members have different living conditions, such as the different distances from their place of residence to Vienna. I really think the debate that is now taking place in the public sector is embarrassing because it seems as if it is not real that a Member from the Federal Republic of Germany has two inhabitants and that this costs something. And if we want Members from the federal states, we must acknowledge that. That is an essential point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] Yes, we should argue openly, honestly and offensively. I think it is wrong not to represent this offensively in the public, because with this we are hindering our work, our function, and this does not do well for parliamentary democracy. The third point: We also need to make clear the reality: A political activity – but no one is forced to do so – entails special burdens and financial burdens. We should say that openly and honestly. If you explain it, it will be understood. - That's the third point. And the last point I would like to highlight here again: Our essential task in the reform of relations, which is not complete with these proposals today, must be to make these things clear to our people. The problems are solvable when we take some time and seriously the different... – You have to make up with your union heart. [[Abg. Asshole: There is no just reward, peace helmet. There's no such thing!]] But, of course, I can describe the role of the honourable Member, the parliamentarian. It must be noted that this function usually takes up 80 to 90 percent of the labour force. There is of course another possibility: Either I am a parliamentarian and I assume this function, or I reduce the effort for this function to a minimum. Then I can imagine all kinds of professional activity. That's right. But we know that this is not possible in a parliamentary democracy and in a working parliament. Therefore, this clear line: We recognize that we are not officials, we then have Parliament officials to decide what they are allowed to do and what they are not. Let us note that this activity is a design which must therefore be taken on a professional basis and dealt with in accordance with this scheme. It may be that this has a completely different financial consequence. But we miss something – and therefore our referral request: First of all, let us regulate the double references; these belong away. We then talk about everything else intensively – with notice – in autumn. And let us face the models proposed in the past in the discussion. I mean, we should take the time to do that. We are doing something good not only to Members but also to Parliament and hence to democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6868	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kukacka. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e6889	Mr President. High house! Of course, in the age of saving and the savings package, politicians must start with themselves. In this respect, I recognize that, and this, of course, must be the basis for our action on this issue. And if we do not meet this standard, then our reputation and the reputation of politics will suffer damage. But just as our reputation and the reputation of politics will suffer damage if we believe that we can create envy on this question. That too, I think, should be said on this occasion. For our salary is not only compensation for the work done, for the hours we spend here, also in the committees. With our salary schemes, we also decide what expertise, what competence, what professional experience is ultimately gathering here in this Parliament and how we are doing our work outside the constituency. And that's why we can't and mustn't do it for us – as you've seen and felt it – to set off a kind of negative salary spiral down. Whoever works properly does not need to apologize for the salary he refers to here as a Member. That too, I think, should be written to all those who want to start a discussion about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the People's Party are committed to the achievement, and we are also committed to a performance-oriented political income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] But we do not want to go into politics because of the money, Mr Wabl. Some of them simply fail to do so because of the money and above all because of the constant need for justification under which he is standing when he takes over a political role. Ladies and gentlemen! Nor does democracy and the reputation of politicians in this country do well in the long run. This is what we should be allowed to say today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany states: The Members are entitled to adequate compensation and to their independence. – This principle must also be respected in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I deeply regret, ladies and gentlemen, that the public and media debate gave the impression that our reform proposals were not primarily about the abolition of unemployed officials' jobs, but rather about a possible increase in the political content: Travel costs billing, housing fees, office expenses and the like. And I also regret that, for party political reasons, the opposition parties are, in fact, denouncing and displeasing any reform proposal of the government parties, because they believe that they can survive a subject that benefits them politically. [[Ah-Rufe at the Liberties]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm sorry. This is a destructive attitude, especially of the Greens, the Liberals and the Liberals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter]] This too is extremely detrimental to the reputation of politics. Faith You're telling me: The constant devaluation of politics and politicians, which you, especially of the Greens and of the Liberals, in part perform in an irresponsible way, deeply damages the reputation of politics and will one day still fall on your mind! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't think of political mudstacks over so-called political privileges, I reject them. But Mr. Dr. Haider has today brought an example from Upper Austria, an example of supposedly unjustified doubles of a countryman, Mr. Pallwein-Prettner. Mr Haider! I would like to say one thing: Whoever sits in the glass house should not throw stones! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Aumayr: My God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I can stay in Upper Austria and you from the "Kronen-Zeitung" of the 16th century. Read More June 1996: Member of the State of Lambert Haimbuchner – he should be known to you; it is a liberal countryman – who is also the mayor of Steinhaus, has received 75 percent of the salary as a national servant in addition to his membership. And now there is, Mr President: Originally, Haimbuchner received only 50 percent of his official salary. However, he was silently and secretly allowed to increase to 75 percent. This, ladies and gentlemen, is your "privilegation reduction"! [[Aha-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] So: If you're sitting in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And by the way, ladies and gentlemen: Some examples from Upper Austria come to my mind. Mr Haider said: Well, how about the supply of the disused politicians by ÖVP and SPÖ? – Yes, how was that with your countryman Schender?- Oh, my God! He didn't even face you politically. He voted against you at the party meeting – you know as well as I do – as They were elected at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Really not! He's writing the story.]] And these fellow offenders have taken you away to the function of a popular lawyer so that you have a faithful man of your trust sitting there. That is the political truth, and that is what you should say, Mr Haider. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How can he be a man of my trust when he's against me?]] How was that – to stay in Upper Austria again – with your clubman Dr. Gugerbauer? – Ladies and gentlemen! After his detachment as a clubman by you, he spent another year in here and never opened his mouth. Why should he have done that? – He was only sitting here to acquire his pension after ten years! This is the "privilegation reduction" à la FPÖ. So, ladies and gentlemen: If you're sitting in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! Take this to heart! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He kept it the same as the delete nuke! It only speaks when it's essential!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am facing today's solution, but it eliminates – I am aware of this – by far not all the problems. It is another step towards a comprehensive solution to the problem of political incomes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A week ago you spoke differently!]] But in order to achieve an even wider, more comprehensive solution to the problems, I would suggest – and I hope that this Committee on References, which is to be used and which should accept this issue, as the motion for a resolution put forward, not only deals with the reference pyramid, but also provides comprehensively with all aspects of the political income and also with a proposal so that we can finally get rid of the suspicion that we politicians here have nothing but always to improve our own relations. We trust this Commission! I am convinced that it will make a proposal, and then the opposition will be very difficult to argue against, just as it does now, for party-political reasons, always when the coalition submits a proposal accordingly. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, although this is not a definitive solution to all open problems, it is an important step towards a definitive income solution for politicians, which is transparent, constitutional and fiscally convincing to the public. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: All right!]] I hope that we can reach a consensus here in this House – also together with the opposition – in this respect.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7074	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7096	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At times, the debate could give the impression that some speakers had at least the intention of taking this seriously into consideration. But if I let the contribution of my previous speaker, Mr Kukacka, happen now, I cannot resist the impression, Mr Kukacka, that you cannot have meant this as you said it. If, for example, you think that the opposition with your No-Sager-Haltung is to blame, Mr Kukacka, I would like to remind you: They were the first to say to Mr Khol: No, I don't want that! If you say, Mr Kukacka, that you are in favour of a high-performance political income, then there will probably be no one here in this House who will object to it. However, it is not about the performance-oriented political incomes, but the reason for this debate today is that we need to talk about non-profitable secondary incomes. Her bank neighbor, Mr Höchtl, with his secondary income was a trigger for the public debate. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: And honourable Member Wabl with his teacher's content!]] If you say, Mr Kukacka, in your speech here, that this is a sensible solution, but it does not solve everything by far, and that is what you are saying as representative of a government party, in fact, that is not all we could do, but please let us do it, it will be useful already if you say that, then I wonder with what right you say that. What right do you, as a representative of a government party, go out here and say: That doesn't solve everything by far, but do we try it? It's a stage – even if the stage is a roundtrip, even if we get back to where we've been before. This is precisely the problem, Mr Kukacka, when we are discussing performance-oriented incomes. Do you understand? If, for example, honourable Members say – and I already have to admit, I have a problem with this statement – that he has worked to a modest extent, then the public must rightly ask itself the question – not only in this case – whether the modest amount of income is sufficient to obtain 75 percent of an income. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: His lecture has fallen victim to the strike!]] This question is, of course, to be asked not only by officials, but also by everyone else – only there it does not stand. It would be inconceivable that you or anyone else employed in the private sector will say to his employer, such as Mr Hazelsteiner or Mr Peter: Unfortunately, I can only work to a modest extent, but I want 75 percent of the income. But this is the life situation of most people, and they are laying this standard on politicians, because that corresponds to their life experiences. It is legitimate, it is completely understandable and it is also right to impose this measure on politicians. It is unthinkable to say that we are talking about decent income, and to see only one part – the political income – and not the side income, for which much more money is being spent than for the main income as a politician. Some of the speakers from the Socialist Group left here in the morning – it was Mr Nürnberger and Mrs. Hostasch – and have declared themselves to be her income, as did Mr Nürnberger, who has declared themselves to be her main profession, and of course the conclusion is that they have a secondary job: politicians. [[Abg. Controversy: Read what Nuremberger said!]] He said he was head of the trade union! [[Abg. Conspicuous: Another income from a primary activity!]] Of course, that is what I mean – but, Mr Vergestnich, when he is appointed Chairman of a trade union as his main activity, that is, there is also a secondary activity: -Politics. [[Abg. Protest: Politically active and profession!]] There are not two main occupations, which would completely contradict what we understand as main and secondary activity. [[Abg. Wabl: Two professions have only the head!]] If someone works primarily as a union president and has certain interests to represent here – and I mean he doesn't do that bad either – then the question arises: What interests does he represent in his secondary profession? Does he represent the interests of his main profession? Does he forget the interests of his main profession? – This is a question that everyone here has to ask, whether he is a trade unionist in the main profession, whether he is an entrepreneur in the main profession, or whether he is an official of the Authority in the main profession. It is also legitimate to ask colleagues from Nuremberg, for example, whether he is doing his main job well, if he says in the main profession that he is against health insurance fees, and in the secondary profession as well as you, Mr Vergestnitsch, is voting for these health insurance fees. That's where you've got to be like my colleague. Nürnberger asked the question: Do I do my main job well – or do I do my side job well? Do I fulfil the interests I have to represent in my main profession – or do I fulfil them in my secondary profession? Or is there any instance between what is represented in the main profession and what makes it seem insignificant in the secondary profession? – That’s really the question for me. What is still the case with those colleagues – and I really regret this, Mr Vergestnich – from the ÖGB like Mr Böhm of the Public Service Trade Union? It is incredible that four incomes are currently available: as a countryman or clubman of the ÖVP 136 000 S, as an exempt official 50 000 S, as Vice-President of Social Security 22 000 S, and as Vice-President of the Public Service Trade Union 36 000 S. – this makes a total of around 244 000 S gross. That's where I ask myself the question: What does this gentleman do in the first place? Mr Vergestnich, this is really an interesting and exciting question: What is he mainly professional of these four professions? Is he an officer? Is he Klubobmann? [[Abg. Vergestnicht: He is not employed at the ÖGB!]] It doesn't matter if he's employed at the ÖGB or not: He has four functions, three of which are related to his activity in the ÖGB. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A Abzocker!]] I don't care if he does it in the ÖGB. I would also like to ask Mr Haselsteiner the same question about his main profession and his secondary profession. This question is also interesting in its function: Is he in the main profession entrepreneurship and in the secondary profession politicians? What is Collegue Schöll of the Freemans: in the main profession brokers and in the secondary profession politicians? Or what about colleagues Heindl? Is he in the main profession of Maculan Supervisory Board Chairman or Executive Board member and in the secondary profession politician? – These are interesting questions, which we must also consider very seriously, which we must discuss, because in one case or another, I am sure – and I am saying so quite openly – it is not to be ruled out that this is a form of lobbyism, of non-respective representation. I would just like to read to you, ladies and gentlemen, in order to dissuade any evil suspicion, what Italian entrepreneur Luciano Benetton said, which was sitting for the Italian Republicans in the Italian Parliament. On the question of whether he regrets withdrawing from politics, Mr Benetton replied: "I regret that I have ever been involved in politics. With my candidate for the small Republican Party, I wanted to put only a sign of civil engagement. If I had known that I would really be elected, I wouldn't have been put up at all. Politics – and this is crucial now – "is a highly complex matter and requires a full-time job." This sentence, ladies and gentlemen, should make you work on it. That says one of the most important Italian entrepreneurs. He says: To believe that this parliamentary job can somehow be done by the way, it was a great mistake. If I had known what I expected, I wouldn't have done that. Politics is a full-time job, says one of the most powerful Italian entrepreneurs. For some of us here in this House, it is not relevant who says something and what is said – essentially, one can discuss apparent privileges or non-privilegations here. It is also interesting another point of this interview with Mr Benetton. He said that it was important for more entrepreneurs to sit in a Parliament: That's not the decisive thing. It is important – and this, of course, is understandable from his point of view – which policy is being made in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of the fact that I do not want an entrepreneurship policy – with or without entrepreneurs – to be made here in this House, I think: He's right. What is crucial here is what is meant for a political course, and there are other questions that have not yet been asked. This is not just a question of whether we can reconcile the professions of politicians and officials. I believe that they are partly incompatible. I agree with you, Mr Graf, that, as an official of the High Authority, if you just want to take the classical division of powers seriously, you cannot actually sit here in this House. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is far from a professional ban. This excludes this profession only for the duration of parliamentary activity – and that is not a professional ban. You can return to the profession at any time. Ladies and gentlemen! If you take the word "vocational ban" into account in this context, you do not know what professional bans were actually in the Federal Republic of Germany or also in Austria in the post-war period. There were other meanings based on this concept, but they have nothing to do with the fact that it is entirely legitimate for a Parliament to establish in a particular situation in which there are incompatibilities. If Mr Khol says that more entrepreneurs or self-employed people are involved, I would like to give him the following answer: I am not only concerned that more entrepreneurs, self-employed, farmers or anyone else will become active. For example, it is also about the fact that more disabled people, more women here in this House, perhaps more writers – or even a single writer or a single worker is sitting here in this House. Maybe a few more employees should be sitting a few young people here in this high house. We should ask ourselves the question: What does that have to do with? What makes it difficult? What structures make it difficult for young people, which structures make it difficult for writers, which structures make it difficult for women to work here in this House? – The answers would be relatively easy to find. They are not necessarily in the amount of salary. There are other circumstances, such as the nature of the debate, the length of the debate we are holding today, which are relevant to why certain groups refuse Parliament and parliamentaryism in this form. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many things that have not yet been said on this very important issue. What we need here and what you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government parties, have in no way delivered or were willing to deliver, this is a clear, transparent model that we can show out. We don't need any supplements, we don't need a travel fee where hidden salary subsidies are available for the "poor parliamentarians". We need clear travel arrangements! I have to tell you that I am not dissatisfied with the free movement licence. Not because I – as colleagues Khol and Kostelka have suspected – was able to travel somewhere on the White Sea or somewhere else with a boatman. I haven't had time for that. My journeys have always been – at least I understand – only service trips to the federal states. I have not had the time to make leisure trips through Austria with my Bundesbahnfreifahrtfahrt, and I think that many of you who actually used the Bundesbahnkarte do not. But if You are now leaving this arrangement if you really allow the billing so that the honourable Member – as Mr Schwarzenberger has said very clearly – can buy the network card in the future and still charge individual journeys, then open the door to abuse. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: No! That's not coming!]] Mr Schwarzenberger has explained this today. Ladies and gentlemen! If it is only in the vicinity of this regulation, it will again give an opportunity to actually open a new debate on abuse. We need not only a clear, transparent model – we need incompatibility regulations, clear incompatibility regulations, ladies and gentlemen! It has not yet been discussed, except in individual words. I would also like to focus briefly on the LIF model. It seeks to define the parliamentarian as self-employed. I don't think that's that bad. I think it's a discussive model. I think it is quite acceptable in some respects. Only one problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, is: the success component that you are drawing in and which, with its attachment to the nominal gross social product, would mean that even if there is unemployment, Members can still achieve increases in their incomes even if there is no growth. The success component also includes – and this is really a fundamental problem – the responsibility of representatives of the opposition parties to the same extent as representatives of the government parties. There is no difference in your model between government and opposition, although they have one to account for the economic course and the other – perhaps not enough success, otherwise they would have the majority – to oppose it. But I think this success component is not suitable. You can discuss anything else. Ladies and gentlemen! What I certainly cannot support is the surcharges and discounts proposed in the free movement model for the visit of committees. I think that's totally absurd. It is only because someone attends a committee meeting that he is not yet a good committee member, not a hard-working Member, and if he does not attend a committee meeting, he is far from a bit of a hard-working Member, especially in the big parties. I do not think this is a good approach. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude, I would like to say one thing: The Commission, which you are proposing and which is to check whether the politicians are acting correctly in their secondary professions, whether they are actually doing the job – this Commission, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, is to rub around, especially for oppositional Members who, of course, would have to expect from the members of the Commission to be slightly different from the representatives of the government parties. It is also because of the fact that I do not trust anyone here that he is actually able to assess the performance of a Member's work in his civil servant's side-work on the basis of a commission activity. I think that's a hell of a thing. I believe that you should distance yourself from this Commission, as well as from this draft that you are presenting today. I therefore welcome every Member of the Government Party who agrees with us for further discussions. I believe that this is really essential, and I believe it is a prerequisite for this debate to be re-enacted. I would like more Members of the Government parties to have the courage to say here and now in this debate that what is referred to in this regulation is nothing more than the populism that is otherwise always accused of the opposition parties. I would like to see at least some representatives of the government parties go out before the vote, because they cannot agree with their consciences. And I would like us to have the courage and the strength to take the time to discuss what is necessary and what could be noted in proper committee deliberations over the next few months, to draw up a decent political profile for the future, to discuss a decent political content, to find decent rules for incompatibility, and to find appropriate rules that also provide us with the appropriate transparency needed to enable citizens in this country to regain some confidence in policy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7246	Mr Dr. Doppelmüller is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow a non-attached person, too, because non-officials, a representative of the many who are here as lobbyists of the economy in Parliament, make his comments on the subject. I will try to remain objective, at least in the first part of my speech. First of all, I would like to refer to Mr Oellinger because he has made a lot of comments in his final words, which I can stress. He was very different from his newly-styled club woman, who should have spoken on the right side today as a representative of the group. He has set out very objectively what we should do. Similar arguments – and you shouldn't be schoolmasters, as Mr Ölllinger did – I also found with colleagues Kukacka. I believe that he has been very much concerned about the problem. Mr Fischler has also put forward a good argument. I also think that there are many colleagues from the public service in Vienna here in this House because they can do more work in this Parliament than a Member who is at home in a federal state and who has a wealth of additional tasks there. But on the example of Mr Oellinger and Mr Stoisits, I would also like to point out how to put something in the room and, in fact, only Mr Haider's hands. Because the net card, ladies and gentlemen, is drawn to the hair! Of course, it should be so that only the expenses I actually have can be incurred. And if I have a network card, I can only go off with the net card and never dubios with a single ticket. That's where I have to buy a single ticket. And I don't think anyone's so stupid, buying a net ticket and extra single tickets. - That's how I understand. Every proof must be there, and only a proof that is also present in the original – in the original, please! –, can be calculated. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, let me say something about the political profession – or whatever you call it. We have made a electoral reform, and we have been told: We are making this electoral reform so that Members have more contact with the population in their constituencies. – So I have the feeling that we have been much more in Vienna since then, and some colleagues have already felt very bitter about the fact that in fact the contact is not to the desirable extent. You have to see that too. Because at home this is not honoured. Everyone who's in a district at home knows the officials. If they have a problem or the people come, it says: Is he back in Vienna? I could mention examples of colleagues, colleagues who are no longer sitting in here, because they were perhaps working too much in Vienna as members of the federal state. I would also like to point out that the political profession – or whatever you want to call it – has two special features that have no other profession. The first is: You can become unemployed in any profession, but call me a profession where you become unemployed through permanent elections. And here I do not necessarily mean the choice directly for the body, for the body, but in all parties the pre-elections, the inner-party readout mechanisms, which are quite visible in connection with the in Vienna. [[Abg. Madl: Through the Structural Adjustment Act you can also become unemployed!]] Mrs Madl! Listen to me, maybe. I'm trying to explain something to you objectively. It won't help you if you hang down from the bank like in the Muppet show. I got the microphone and I'm sure I'm louder. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Unlike in the past – and I have been here since 1983, ladies and gentlemen – it is no longer the case today that a politician who excites is well cared for. Let me give you an example. Mr Wolfmayr was here in the House for four years. He was a shopping manager at the "Consum" Austria. He had the bad luck of finally leaving Parliament – also due to pre-elections – and he "cools" with a work contract today posters. Previously, he had a position as a shopping manager at the "Consum" Austria. I also think that some companies are not worth it. I would remind the liberals of Mr Probst, who had the biggest problems with the EBEWE company and even had to carry out a labour court trial. One particular feature, therefore, is to become unemployed by elections. And then politicians will not get from a net gross salary – admittedly high – that which every other Austrian would get, because we have a lot of "walkers" inside. If I made a mission trip from my company, I would of course have been replaced by the hotel rooms, the travel costs and a day money. So far, the politicians were expected to pay for all of this themselves, and at best in the way of the tax – ladies and gentlemen – everyone has different experiences because they know that the financial officials have a lot of scope – one and a half, two or three years later, perhaps 40, 45 percent of these expenses are recovered. That's a system that's not right. If so, we should also be treated on mission trips and similar to any other Austrian. I have said that if only the double terms of public servants are regulated today, I am voting against this today because it would be unfair to do so. It is not thanks to God, but there is a accompanying package. It is a difference, for example, whether this is a teacher from Tyrol or Salzburg, who travels here for hours, who is still more in Vienna due to the special strategic skill of the Freedom Party and who therefore cannot work, even if he wants to, or whether this is a Vienna MP, for example the colleague Bauer. This could be done – and I believe that he is able to work effectively, because his place of work is not far from Parliament. We must also see that, and that is what we really need to discuss if we are to deal seriously with it. Let me give you an example: The power I really appreciate. Gilbert Trattner's not here. Why isn't Mr Gilbert Trattner there? He has a job, but he's coming, he's going to be there in the votes, but he still has some dates in Tyrol, as he said to another colleague. I have always thought that being a Member of Parliament can only be apologised if you are sick or if you are in the EU. Mr Trattner makes it different. It is likely that some will be able to judge themselves in this way. That's how it looks in practice. And when Mr Graf said that public servants are overrepresented: I am not sure – which is now a little humorous – whether two veterinarians among 183 people reflect the number of veterinary doctors – or whether this is the case with the number of lawyers or the host. With us there is a host, with the liberals there are, I think, two who have a reaper, and colleague Wabl is no longer host; but that would be four. This share certainly does not correspond to reality. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, what is it really about? The new head of state of Salzburg, highly appreciated by me as a historian, has described it dreamily in a scientific work. He has described how a particular political party has destroyed the days of the First Republic. If one reads this and hangs around a new, modern coat, one is very familiar with it: to paralyze Parliament, to disavow Parliament, to devalue politicians with untruth, half-truths. Something remains hanging, you repeat it again and again, you don't see the splitters in your own eyes. If I'm just thinking about "NEWS", 23. 11th@item: inlistbox In 1995, at the Fiscal Act of Haider. This must always be pleasantly broken on the tongue! Alfred Worm writes: A bear for 165 million schilling. For only 13,725 S tax he received it, and so on, the entire tax protection he operates with his income. There was no response, ladies and gentlemen. I asked myself: There's nothing there, Mr. Haider goes to the dive station. And after you sit in the glass house and smite with stones, you could show a lot of examples. There is, for example, Mr Lindenberger, the Tormann from Linz, whose nomination is due to the colleague Krüger that he is sitting inside now because the Lindenberger has a bit of a "social mutter" and the like. But that doesn't matter. We do everything we can to bring this Parliament to an end and thus undermine democracy. – I wanted to tell you quite clearly once.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7316	Mr Krüger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7337	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Doppelmüller has indeed taken his mouth very full. But, my colleague, if you're talking about the Freedom Party sitting here in a glasshouse, I'll tell you: You're not sitting in a glass house, but you're sitting on a pile! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Colleppelmüller, that is the difference. If I let the discussion happen now, I must say one thing: that red and black here according to the motto "Hold the thief!" It's going to do it. It is indeed an immense fact that Klubobmann Kostelka alone is criminalizing a social fund that is proven to serve charitable purposes – there is evidence that he has been read to you – here. [[Abg. Leikam: This is the G’wall of the Haider!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The Kluban train!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, there you laugh! If children who are cross-sectional from this social fund are helped, do you laugh? Do you also laugh when this Social Fund helps Spanish children when wheelchairs are purchased? Is that your morale, Mr. Klubobmann? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think it is an immense first rank that you, Mr Klubobmann, stand out here and play the great moralists, except one, ladies and gentlemen, who has earned a jobless income for many years, and who is still proud that he has retired for years as a Council of Parliament and has received a double reference. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: This is immense! Not even your President has confidence in the anonymous funds!]] What, then, was his first reaction to the abolition of unemployment income? [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: You don't even know what it's all about!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! You can't save this accusation. Your first reaction was that you have looked forward to a legislative possibility so that you can come back to the gage that has enabled you to get the unemployed income of a retired Parliamentary Council. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: But he was never a car dealer!]] That's incredible! I wonder, What sensitivity do you have from red and black that at a time when you are constantly getting into the almost empty pockets of the plagued citizen, you want to give yourself a salary increase? [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Football player and car dealer he was never!]] Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka! Or is that not the truth? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Are you talking about the sweater? Retired gym teacher!]] I have the first request from the clubmen Khol and Kostelka. One can only be surprised that at a time when the free ride in which the families are being taken into the bag, you yourself wanted to grant salary increases. That's the monsterity! Mr Klubobmann, thank God, however, is sensitive enough to the public, and it is also to thank the media for showing this problem in all its forms. In such a sensitive time, when you are passing through a structural adjustment law on the population, where you make senseless laws that require an administrative burden that, for example, burden artists or contractors of the labor contract, you want to allow yourself a salary increase. That's the horrific thing about your way of doing it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then come out here, almost in the role of Fabian at Erich Kästner, and play here to the moralist, instead of sitting down, seeing your injustice and taking back with an expression of regret the increase in your salary granted by you yourself. Instead, you stand out here and believe that you can play the great moralists here. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it's done! The National Council and, above all, the government parties are full of imagination and action when it comes to taking away the taxpayer. If laws are made here that go to the expense of third parties, when laws are made that go at the expense of entire groups of people, such as the students mentioned above, then you are quick to go hand in hand with the law machine. They use ministries, they use the social partners, and they quickly create great structural adjustment laws, with hundreds of pages, with 96 constitutional provisions. There's nothing so complicated that you can't handle it soon. In two, three weeks you drive over the population and you do not make a budget, but you do two budgets – and that in such complicated materials! You're really fast. Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol. What does it actually look like for the references? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The history of the integration reform in Austria is a single chronicle scandal. I really have to tell you that. And if you laugh here, Mr. Klubobmann Kostelka, this is, of course, irrelevant to you. It is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure... [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: The liberals have agreed to this! "I don't know anything!"]] Need now Don't get so old! It is nowhere in the Rules of Procedure that laughter is forbidden. But the laugh also expresses something, Mr. Klubobmann: It expresses your attitude to this sensitive matter. As far as 1970 is concerned, the integration reform should enter into force, and do not pretend, Mr Klubobmann, as if you wanted to make this reference reform, for example, because you have now come to have moral concerns that a jobless income is being generated. That's not true at all! The only "legislator" in the referee reform, the only one that makes pressure here, is not the politicians of red and black, but that is an interested public. That's not a question at all. And that is the only reason why you are going to regulate such a sensitive matter at all. This is incredible, it is already a contradictio in adjecto, a contradiction in itself that one must at all argue that an unemployed political income must go away. It is incredible that there is a need at all for argumentation to eliminate such a senseless, such an unjust provision. Mr Klubobmann Kostelka, I would already be interested: Where do you put your ear? – Certainly not with the voters, otherwise it could not be that you wanted to give yourself a salary increase in your commitment to the new regulation, the abolition of the unemployed political pay. Allow me! [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Are you talking on time?]] This is thanks to God – but not because you are so perceptive, but because you have been put back here – you know that exactly – by your own Federal Chancellor and Mrs. Ederer, who has clearly and clearly said that she is ashamed of the fact that her own clubman wants to grant himself a salary increase. This increase in salary does not result from pressure from the population; we are very pleased to note this. Ladies and gentlemen! Some remarkable statements have been made by politicians of the Social Democratic Party. I am thinking, for example, of Mr Walter Guggenberger of the SPÖ, who meant all the serious things: Managers, freelancers, athletes or artists achieve much higher incomes with far less commitment, and they remain completely unlit. Also this, ladies and gentlemen, shows that in the matter you have no sensitivity at all, that the problem is not aware of you that it makes a difference whether a publisher pays an appropriate fee or a high salary to a journalist today, whether the organizer of sports events pays an ordinary fee to a sportsman, whether any organizers of artistic events pay appropriate fees. That's a difference! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: For example, at football! 3 million of the Meischbergers!]] We'll all be paid publicly, and you can't do that over a comb. That's incredible! And by the way, if you already compare yourself with artists and athletes: You may have a sports spirit in defending your privileges, and you may display an art to remove these privileges for a purpose and reintroduce them through the back door in the form of a spear control. This is the only thing that connects you to athletes and artists. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: We are aware of the Meischberger problem!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What you have been referring from red and black – at least parts of the parliamentarians – to unemployed incomes, however, does not need to shy away from the comparison with athletes or artists. If, for example, I think that the President of the National Council has, for example, taken up a jobless income of saying and writing 21 million schilling, if one calculates it, then I must say that these are revenues that an artist would very well enjoy in the way of tantitimes, only has the artist achieved a concrete performance for later he can cash the tantimes. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: 3 million for the Meischberger! All right! That's money stolen from savings accounts! The Meischberger has earned much more in a shorter period of time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! These are certainly the most inappropriate comparisons that can be made here at all. A short while ago, the situation of Upper Austria, which has attracted Members of the Kukacka. I say again, here again: You're not sitting in a glass house, you're sitting on a sniper's pile, because you're representatives of parties that have put politicians in high offices that cash unemployed incomes. That's the decisive thing. Despite all attempts and efforts, you have not even managed to show a single case to the liberals who would be similarly stored. It is also the case with Mr Haimbuchner that he is doing his work properly in the Office of the Construction Law Department under the supervision of the Black Council of the State of Hiesl, so he is not in a jobless position. All the reforms that have taken place in Upper Austria have taken place exclusively on the initiative of the Freedom Party. If, for example, the current head of state Pühringer, who has a difficult time because he is constantly being compared with Ratzenböck, big news is that, for politicians in Upper Austria, redundancies have long been abolished, that the incomes of the members of the government were reduced by 10 percent in 1995 and that all politicians in Upper Austria should not receive a salary increase for three years, then this, Mr Kukacka, is only a success of the Freedom Party. A problem will be identified by us and dealt with after that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7548	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the debate on item 1 of the agenda. Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Karl Schweitzerand comrades to the Federal Chancellor on comprehensive privileges reduction (951/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e7578	We now come to the urgent question 951/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8159	I now give the floor to Mr Mag. Mr Schweitzer as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. Rules of Procedure: 40 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8181	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Right in advance, referring to the Social Fund Burgenland. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Schweitzer in Not! Schweitzer for sweaters!]] I have given you and the press a precise list of all that I, Mr Kostelka, have done, as you have wrongfully referred to, but have not kept it, contrary to you, where it was possible to help. [[Abg. Leikam: Haha!]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Party financing!]] There is an accurate record on this matter, Mr Kostelka. We have helped other people who have been undecidedly in need to alleviate this need. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Only they don't know anything about it!]] But you didn't admit what you did because you didn't work, you put it in your pocket! That is the essential difference, and this is what we are talking about today, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are a reason why, as a Member of this House, I am no longer able to speak to the people about references, because the people increasingly see politicians as a major denominator, who, once on the feed trick, cannot get enough and enrich themselves at the expense of taxpayers. [[Abg. May. Peter: Not so loud!]] Mr Kostelka, you and you are responsible for all of us being thrown into this pot. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You and your coalition colleagues already have the foundation for this criticism. ==References====External links== At that time, the movements were completely misplaced. It was not a system based on the principle of benefits that was decided at the time, but an impenetrable privilege with unemployed incomes you have stumbled over, with multiple pensions, with treatment schemes that no one understands. Many good reform progresses of the liberals were sent at the time and were carried as a maximum cosmetic corrections somewhere. A genuine willingness by the government parties to reform something in this regard has not yet been given, ladies and gentlemen. And by doing so, you have the responsibility that everyone – everyone! – colleagues today have major problems when they talk to the people about policy-making. This responsibility, Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol, will not be taken away from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that this impression is right for citizens. People say politicians are members of a caste that "is true", members of a caste that, despite all the demands, has a great deal of effort to solve the social problems of society, first and foremost, has in mind the security of life in its own hands. Ladies and gentlemen! This recent draft also takes this view into account once again. Only FPÖ has so far tried to really make some progress in terms of the reduction of privileges. Partial success has been achieved, as has been stressed several times today. One cannot repeat it often enough that it was especially the chairman of the liberals who, if something has gone on on this question, was the triggering moment for it. [[Call the ÖVP: Where is he?]] Jörg Haider was the only one who has so far abandoned four times his legal discharge. [[New calls at the ÖVP: Where is he?]] Similarly, Mathias Reichhold did it when he was relocated from Carinthia to this house. [[Abg. Leikam: This is not for him at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Which one of you has already renounced a discharge? Which one of you did that? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Leikam: He is not granted at all! He couldn't give up at all!]] You will find them with the liberals, but you will not find them in your ranks. It was popular desire in 1987 that led to a change in the law on references, which brought about the abolition of double redundancies and a change in the law of incompatibility. But, Mr Khol, you will have to answer to the people why since XVIII. In the legislative period, applications submitted to the National Council which have not been dealt with, applications proposing a benefit-related salary are proposed a fairness of the remuneration required to abolish unemployed income – since XVIII. The legislative period, Mr Khol, so that there are no more unjustified double references. These applications also call for the abolition of redundancies and pensions, and for the integration of politicians into the ASVG pension system. – To date, these requests have not been dealt with by you, ladies and gentlemen. Despite all these efforts, it has once again required an occasion, as the Causa Höchtl is now. This Causa Höchtl was necessary to put K & K into motion in order to put Kostelka & Khol in motion. So wholesome can obviously be a public vortex, many have thought when this first novel of the referee law was put on the table. And only when looking more closely has it been found that by this reform of Kostelka and Khol, what is missing on the one hand, on the other – however, a little bit fattened – is to be added. Ladies and gentlemen! People in our country have long since lost their understanding of this, especially because they are forced to tighten the belt with an extra-class load package during the same period. On the one hand, the population demands savings, but Kostelka & Khol approve a little more. Even German Chancellor Vranitzky was dissatisfied with this and rejected this K & K proposal and ordered the reform of the reform. Federal Chancellor Vranitzky has been talking about this in the last few days as a privilege loser, because he finally realized that there is a need for action. However, this Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Vranitzky, has managed to bring the quality of the take to the fore in his own interest as a privilege loser, ladies and gentlemen. And today this urgent request offers a favourable opportunity to discuss, for example, how to become a millionaire through state funds. Obviously, only a few skillfully negotiated contracts are needed, such as the one in which one can read: "After completing your service relationship, you are entitled to a 14-month payment, including a statutory right to pay. In the event of your retirement from the bank, we shall ensure, under the following conditions, a life-long retirement relationship for which the 16-fold monthly salary of this contract is the basis of calculation at the time of termination of the service relationship. Retirement is due from the completed 60. Year of life, if you apply for retirement, even before reaching the age of 60. Year of life in the task of your service in agreement with the Supervisory Board." Federal Chancellor! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky:... read!]] That's your contract! – "Retirement is granted in addition to a possible statutory pension from the pension insurance of employees." These are things that are really perfectly negotiated, things – based on these most important passages – can be seen from this contract, which you signed on 18 November. It was concluded with the Landesbank in November 1981. Perfect conditions, Mr. Federal Chancellor, according to the motto: Pecunia non olet! Federal Chancellor! Here you have perfectly understood how to negotiate for yourself something that you would like to keep away from the people. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Right to pay 14 months, pension scheme in millions, enormous pre-service periods, family care – all of this is contained in this contract, ladies and gentlemen! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor thus emerges as a perfect representative of his own interests. As a representative of the Austrians, however, this handling and pension funder is unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And that's why his opposition to this novelle is unbelievable. Ladies and gentlemen! Only the sums of the transactions amount to 300 000 S of the National Bank, 800 000 S of the credit institution and, finally, 3.7 million schilling from the Landesbank, Mr Parnigoni! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Did you write all this down to the Haider?]] For three years in a bank that could only be saved with 4 billion schilling tax money before bankruptcy, the good man receives 3.7 million schilling. Let's compare Jörg Haider. He too should have got three rounds: 400,000 S and 600 000 S from the National Council, 200 000 S from the country of Carinthia. But Jörg Haider has never asserted his claim, unlike German Chancellor Vranitzky. He sent the money back. It is still in store today for Mr Fischer, ladies and gentlemen. This is the difference between a Jörg Haider and the quality of taking at the Federal Chancellor Vranitzky! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In addition, the ridiculous "littleness" of a chancellor board comes sometime soon, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this Chancellor has lost any claim to credibility in questions of privilege – as have ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, as have many other comrades, who – like you, for example – went to 1st place. May still want to celebrate as a representative of the working class. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner]] That really mocks every description, if such people are to be celebrated as representatives of the working class, anyway high on top of the gallery, and the people must march devotly. [[Complaints with the liberals]] – However, the people are getting less and less, while those who take it are getting more and more up. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the development of the Social Democracy of the 1990s! That's striking! The people are coming away from you because the Nehmers above are getting more and more! President Fischer also falls into this category, one of his own employees, just as is the case with Klubobmann Kostelka. Rudolf Nürnbergerals ÖGB-functionary, Fritz Verzetznitsch as ÖGB-President, Eduard Koppler as Chairman of the Central Works Council or Mr. Elmecker as principal school director in temporary retirement. [[Abg. Grabner: Look back! You forgot about browneder!]] This Mr. Elmecker has noticed – and I think it is very strong – that: "I stay 50 000 s in the month with a 70-hour week. I'm worth it for this work. The party tax alone costs me 19 000 S. Moral Skrupel? - Hardly! It certainly looks stupid, but it's legal." ==References====External links== ==References== [[Abg. Grabner: You forgot a few: brown-eater, farmer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all these facts, a real reform will not be decided today. Instead of abolishing the reference for non-work on the occasion of the cases now listed – Höchtl, Fischer, Neisser, Kostelka & Co – it is de facto a legalisation of this unemployed income. Take it away and raise it there, so according to the motto: It may be a bit more. At the end of this "reform", ladies and gentlemen, which you intend to decide today, there will be a salary increase. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not think that we can afford a salary increase in this form, which is to be decided here today, in times of a tax package. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, voting needs to be done. She said, Mrs Bauer, a comprehensive scheme involving all those working in the social sector, in the trade unions, in the field of health and pension insurance, according to the model of freedom, which is really a real alternative: honest reforms, as we propose, instead of legalising privileges and rewarding non-work. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Basic compensation for national councillors, a maximum of 15 000 compensation for national councillors! Parliamentary money only for what you actually do, ladies and gentlemen! Payment according to the principle of benefit, introduction of compulsory insurance according to the ASVG for national councillors, withdrawal of political pensions and settlements! – Then we could talk to the people outside again if you agree, without having to let ourselves be insulted. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Because that will be understood by the people! If performance is in the foreground, it will understand! Performance must be in the foreground – and not the accumulation of privileges. On the "best" it showed this Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor of our Republic of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8460	To answer the question, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Vranitzky spoke.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8482	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the questions 1 and 13 referred to in the urgent question, I would like to comment as follows: The Novelle Law of 1990 created, among other things, the constitutional provision of § 16a. This provision, as it stands today, states that the sum of all income from a particular activity or activity may not exceed the maximum reference of a Federal Minister, plus the replacement of expenses, which are currently 233 668,40 S. These incomes relate to such 1. as a member of the Federal Government, as a State Secretary, as a member of the Public Prosecutor's Office and as President of the Court of Auditors, 2. as a member of the National Council, the Federal Council or the European Parliament, 3. as a member of a State Government, 4. as a member of a Landday, 5. as a member of an institution under the Federal Constitutional Act, Art. 148i para. 2, or as a member of an institution for the control of state birth, 6. as mayor, as a member of a city Senate, of a municipal council or city council or of a municipal council, or in similar bodies of a municipal association, and 7. as district council or district council representative, 8. in a representative body of a legal professional representation, 9. in a representative body of a social security institution, 10. as head of office or vice-president of a national school council or in Vienna of the City School Council, and 11. in the Supervisory Board or in representation bodies of another body subject to the control of the Court of Auditors. On question 2: Ladies and gentlemen, no, I am not currently referring, as you put it in the question, to retirement from the private sector. That's what Mrs Mag has. Ederer doesn't claim either. Their communication referred to the prospect of a pension. Moreover, your reading practice is a standard contract – and you can read about this contract or analogy here about dozens of economic operators in Austria. It is also clear that these contractual provisions did not concern the Federal Chancellor, but the member of the Board of Directors of this Stock Corporation, from which you obtained the text of the contract. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There are others too!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if I were not German chancellors, but still Director-General under this Treaty, I would not have to deal with the liberals in the way of urgent questions, but with petitioners for advertisements in the "New Free News" [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On Question 3: As I have noted repeatedly, besides my pension as Director-General of the former Landesbank, I am not going to take up a pension because of my job as Federal Chancellor. This is legally excluded. Questions 4 to 8: The answer is yes, the statements made correspond to the legal situation, namely the statements in your request. They always ask themselves about the legal situation, so I am answering the question of the legal situation. However, as far as Question 6 is concerned, it should be noted that the scheme adopted in 1995 provides for the retirement age for members of the government starting with 1. In January 1996, a grinding system was increased to 60 years by the year 2000. Your comments on Question 8 would also be more differentiated. According to the current legal situation, it is quite possible to pay less than 75 per cent of the official's employment, namely if the official makes use of his ability to actually retire, or if he is in full employment. In the case of actual retirement, he is only entitled to a pension, in the case of full temporary employment, only one month's pension to which he would be entitled if he retired at that time - the so-called fictitious pension. As far as the question of the substantive justification of these regulations is concerned, I note that it is not my job to take a critical view of the decisions taken by the National Council from the Government Bank. On the other hand, there is a question of reform of today's plenary debate. At this point, however, I would like to make a comment on the question raised by you about the dependence on the performance of political salaries. In any case, I am acting decisively against acting as if the remuneration of the members of the Federal Government or of the Members of the House were not in line with that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Each of us on the government bank or every one of you – I represent this assessment, ladies and gentlemen – has a highly responsible activity that requires a high level of commitment and commitment as well as a very high level of work. I will therefore continue to work to ensure that the work of politicians is not generalized and indiscriminately underestimated for any populist reason. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Questions 9, 12, 15 and 21: With regard to your specific questions concerning the Kostelka-Khol draft, as you refer to it here, it is initially assumed that it cannot be the task of execution to make an assessment of own-initiative requests from the House – this is all the more so than the own-initiative proposal you are proposing here today. In my view, I am still talking about the relevant legislation or political incomes in general. Questions 10 and 11: These statements in your inquiry are also in accordance with the legal situation. It should also be noted that I believe, so far, that the Federal Chancellor's Office's view that it is not possible for officials to be discharged is still to be maintained. In the view of the experts in my home, the rules on temporary employment laid down in the relevant provisions of the BDG constitute a lex specialis compared to the scheme for the transfer of benefits and must therefore be applied. Question 14: As, according to § 50, the relation law concerning the members of the National Council and the Federal Council of the President of the National Council is responsible for enforcement, the answer to this question does not fall within my field of competence. On questions 16 to 20 and on question 24: First of all, I should like to point out that the objective of placing political relations in a just and easy-to-understand income pyramid was sought by me before the last National Council election and, subsequently, I have also found entry into the work agreement of the two government parties. This kind of income pyramid will be the second step in a comprehensive re-reference reform in the autumn of this year. It will also be necessary, in my view, to involve external experts, but also, of course, representatives of the federal states and the local authorities in the discussions, in order to develop a good solution, but also a comprehensive solution to the rest of the local authorities. There is no doubt that the issues you are discussing will also play a role in this next reform phase. In addition, I would also point out that measures to be decided cannot be the subject of enforcement. Questions 22 and 23: I assume that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, not least in the context of today's reply to your urgent question, shares his view on the rules of reference or political income. There's no concrete order from the President of the Federal Republic to me because he can't be there. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today, when I read the question to myself and the explanation for it, nothing else has been possible to associate the word "unserious" with it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, we need to discuss every matter that is being dealt with here in the House and we can still disagree differently. In my view, however, it is unscrupulous if you try to jump this urgent thing on a train that has long since passed for you in the form of the reference reform presented here today and the long-term discussion about it. It is also absurd, however, if you want to know here under the title of an urgent request in most cases only existing rules of law, which you could not only read at any time at all, but also to a good part as a Member himself. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] In my eyes, however, it is unfrozen how you seem to travel over multiple relationships with moralinsure, although you have one – at least one – quite blatant case of multiple relation in your own ranks. And it's especially ridiculous when you ask questions about my income situation, which are clearly contained in the referee's law, accessible to everyone and already known in the meantime, while your partyobmann Haider, for example, has difficulty in publishing his own tax notice on questions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's not new, but once again it comes out: These are the double standards of the liberals with whom they try to sow displeasure against all others, but to mask the situation in themselves. There are examples of this also in this question, Hohes Haus. As if Mr Ederer had claimed in the recent issue of the "profile" that I would already receive a pension today. Of course, this is not true, nor did Mrs. Ederer claim it in the interview. But the liberals are not truth fanatics. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or – let us stay with my pension, which you are so keenly interested in –: You seem to be asking whether I'm going to get two pensions in the future. Of course, you know so well as everyone else that it is not. I have repeatedly explained it, last ten days ago in an official broadcast of the Federal Chancellor's Office. But I'm asking you: What kind of freeman is interested in the truth? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Or you pretend, as if the journalist Hans Besenböck had spoken in the recent issue of the "Economics Week" in connection with the reference reform of a "fine Vranitzky-Bonus" – as you call it under quotation marks. Only: Besenböck is not talking about a Vrannitzky bonus, but – on the contrary – about a trap for Vranitzky. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: I would like to fall into this case too!]] All of this can be answered neither by requests nor by legal regulations, but by simply reading a weekly newspaper. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is no longer a question of whether false claims are deliberately claimed here, because we already know the importance of truth for the liberals. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the draft reform of the Members' contributions to this House, as it has been introduced today, is correct. It contains the rules that were feasible if you wanted to send a clear signal before the summer. And I welcome him because it succeeds in abolishing unemployed incomes for officials of the National Council. I see in the draft a first step in the reform of Members' relations, because only rules for the multiple remuneration of public servants are provided. Above all, the income pyramid will be realized by autumn, which is part of the Coalition Convention. This pyramid is intended to bring together the references of the political leaders of our state, of government members and representatives, but also of national politicians in a hierarchy. You can easily imagine that this will be necessary in the light of the federalist principle of our Republic, because it concerns me with cooperation with the other local authorities and not their premeditation. From the last example alone, you recognize that we were faced with an important decision: Should we decide everything together in autumn or should we already prefer the first elements of the reference reform? . We have decided on the second way, because it sends a clear signal of limitation and transparency. None of these solutions will go without criticism, but I think it was right for the two government groups to face up to this criticism, for example, not to respond and not to act in these important matters at all. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8603	We are now entering the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the maximum speaking time per speaker is 15 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8633	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Chancellor criticized Mr Schweitzer for alleged that he had organized a reading exercise. I saw that he spoke freely. But the Federal Chancellor is above, reading word for word, what his touchy secretary, who by the way read control, has prepared, all Bonmots and all jokes beautifully printed and cleanly, with the typewriter. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And he still likes the role of poor "Vranziskus", which is the reincarnated or incarnated truth. The truth of the liberals, they do not exist. The truth of the "sacred franciscus" is the only true. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today we know: If we seek truth when we seek the source of truth – here he sits, the source of truth. What liberals write in a request, what is to be read in the "profile", which is not the truth of his own Federal Managing Director. Here she sits. [[The speaker points towards the government bank.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Experience You, therefore, from the mouth of the Federal Chancellor, what is true. Only with his own... [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrnitzky.]] No, Mr Federal Chancellor, this is the pleasure of a questioning by you that you always act as if you had taken the truth. They then point down in the direction of the liberal opposition, but on this occasion they constantly forget your own processing millions. Federal Chancellor! May I supplement your truths? Their truths are financially comprehensible on their account. Mr Bundeskanzler, and to that end You will be remembered for as long as you reach into the pockets of the citizens of this country, on the left and right and wherever possible, and as long as you promise pensions in this country and then on next occasion order pension reductions. [[Congratulations on the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is the side of the truth of Franz Vrannitzky. Ladies and gentlemen! I believed that today I met less on a saint, but more on a Marxist, because from his origin he was a Marxist. I have believed that he has only soaked up "The Capital" as his own "Bibel" with breast milk, instead I find today that he represents the truth, the only and only truth. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The truth of Franz Vrannitzky is not to take as bar as he offers it to us today. This truth would have meant that the truth chancellor of the Republic remembers that on 29 October, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. A resolution has already been sent to the Federal Government in April 1988, in which the Chancellor, the personified truth, is asked to present to the House a reference model with an income pyramid, because it was already clear at that time that Austria, behind Italy with the second highest political relations in Western Europe, does not appear very prominent. Clearly, this is also part of the truth of the Chancellor that one must all the more deserve, the worse the state manages and the worse the key facts of the state. This seems to be the side of the German Chancellor's truth. Federal Chancellor! This truth of 1988 has not yet been noted, which is why we want to continue to help your Holy See the jumps and not get tired of reminding you of these truths of 1988. Federal Chancellor! At that time, and since then, they promised in countless announcements that the privileges will be eliminated, that the National Bank will arrange for the fact that, after the Zacharias case, the multiple people in the SPÖ, yes in Austria, will generally receive rarity. You have said in government declarations that you will carry out privileges reduction. – You have not even made order in your own ranks, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That's the other truth. Federal Chancellor! In the recent coalition agreement between the Social Democratic Party of Austria and the Austrian People's Party, which bears its signature, I assume that this signature corresponds to the truth – I quote – "that a retiring relationship, which is due to a political representative from a service relationship to a local body, rests for the duration of the political function exercise and that the assets which a mandate receives when he works in addition to his political function should correspond to his actual performance". Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Signed by Franz Vrannitzky, the incarnated truth, signed by Peter Kostelka, Peter Kostelka, who signed it and claimed to be part of it, but at the same time filed it. Ladies and gentlemen! At that time, your party comrade Kostelka has for years been cashing off from a local body without even a spark of work, which according to the Coalition Convention was actually intended to stop. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Also signed by the next in the prominent order of comrades, namely Heinz Fischer, who for 20 years, Mr. Federal Chancellor, also a truth, has been able to transfer a salary to the account for nothing in this country as his own boss. – Ladies and gentlemen! That's the other truth. Also signed by a Mr Maderthaner, who has approved himself a ministerial salary in the Federal Chamber of Commerce, because he is so poor at all. To prevent him from going to the bedding staff in Sack and Ash, he approved a ministerial salary because, in order to make room for another Member, he had to leave the House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tichy Schreiter.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Read the Chamber of Commerce Act!]] Sagittarius You're not the head, you're not informed what's happening in your chamber. I hope you know at least what's going on in your account. They are also one of the strange entrepreneurs who... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] I'm not talking to you yet, I'm coming to talk to you right now. You're one of the excavators. Next to you is an entrepreneurship representative who no longer has a company at all. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreider: What?]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is the truth of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. You know that there is a President of the Chamber, who collects a ministerial salary, then returned to the National Council, but this salary has not been reduced to the level of a ministerial salary. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposal by Peter Kostelka and his twin Andreas Khol will be quite "lovingly" when it comes to this Commission, which, by the way, one rejects – that is to say, to the ÖVP – in the federal states that are dominated by you. Her former Minister Jürgen Weiss, who already has enough of the "truths" of this federal government, says that this is anti-paederism, we reject that. Their only yet relatively successful people in the countries of Purtscher and Sausgruber say that they have not even been allowed to review. – Andreas Khol says that the review took place very well; we talked about it at the ÖVP Federal Party Board. It is new to me, Mr Khol, that the assessment of a law can already be carried out in the EIA's Federal Party Board. But be it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Initiative applications are usually not at all...!]] Mr Kostelka! Their people complain that no consideration has been given to this draft law. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: I'm Kostelka, he's the khol!]] I'm always messing you up. You must say that you are Peter Khol and he is Andreas Kostelka or vice versa. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] K & K twins Khol and Kostelka have in any case invented a commission that should best be referred to as the "Zacharias Commission", for in the future, honourable people will sit down from the beat of a Zacharias and decide which privilege riders in our country may continue to "höchtln" without providing an hour or even a spark of work, continuing to obtain unemployment income. At the same time, the National Council will decide to impose burdens on citizens at the pace of immigration and will be taken back into their pockets by means of constitutional provisions or impose burdens on them. This "Zacharias" Commission of Honourable Ancient Privilege Knights will tell you – where is Mr Kostelka now?, but I also think you, Mr. Khol, are preparing a lot of headaches – I can already predict this today, because this "Zacharias" Commission is ultimately an eye-catching that should not be taken to the citizens and also to our politicians. Ladies and gentlemen! The decisive thing about the current debate, however, is that it is not often enough to remember the saying that the fish begins to smell at the head. High house, the fish starts to smell at the head! If this head, as a personified truth, is then directed by Hungary from the Austrian Parliament that this request should no longer be tabled, so should not be debated in the Constitutional Committee, then we must first of all welcome it, because it confirms the correctness of our objections which we have presented to the public during the last few weeks. [[Abg. This remark is a bit at the border, Mr President.]] If at the same time privilege reduction is recommended by this head, privilege reduction is announced, then this head must be the question why the head does not start with itself. – Ladies and gentlemen! I do not mean the honourable Member's head, who today has the courage to vote against this absurd request, no, I mean the Chancellor, who could go ahead with a good example himself. Federal Chancellor! If you fail to believe toward the freedom of your secretaries particularly bad jokes, I ask you: Why can't you do it to Mr Haider and give up your proceedings? – We decide today – just as we decide that we should ask fresheners and colleagues Höchtl for something – that we ask you to repay your executions, Mr Bundeskanzler! Are you ready to do that? Repay your payments, which you have partially collected for the minimum duration of activities in a state bank. Mr. Federal Chancellor? You can somehow improve your credibility if you say here today: I will repay my already-related settlement in millions, just as that would actually correspond to my origin as a socialist and my heritage as a Communist. Federal Chancellor! How's the refund? What about the legal clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you are not saying again that it is all false; rather, what Franz Vrannitzky says is true; no, the Court of Auditors' report says that! – have collected? Figures After you have paid out your villa now, Mr. Federal Chancellor? What about your pension rights, which you claim to be legally flawless, that you no longer receive a chancellor's pension because your Landesbank-pension, on which you have a contractual claim, is so high? What about legal clarification in the law, Mr. Bundeskanzler? – Because: Last week, your Secretary of State said that there is an opinion on the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, which is also bound by the mandate, that you should not obtain a rest from your job as Federal Chancellor. Federal Chancellor! Are you willing to set up your group... [[Abg. Koppler: No!]] The first multifunctional and offszocker is yelling no. If it's said to give up, they're all yelling, the bad comrades from the SPÖ, in the choir no. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If the liberals demand a renunciation, then in any case you have to reply in a reflective way with a no. Federal Chancellor! Are you prepared to present your group today – this time not from Hungary but from the government bank – and to make it clear to its non-successful Clubobmann Kostelka that he should accept today the request that the law clearly and clearly regulates that you no longer have a right to a chancellor's pension as long as you have the right to a Landesbank pension? There is a request, Mr Bundeskanzler – a request that is factually argumented and clean! That's where you need it. You no longer have to give an opinion on the Constitutional Service, since you no longer need to make statements, because you no longer need to come with the truth, but that will simply be the law, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because of a request from us, where you have the opportunity today to ensure that at least after you have already collected the transactions, at least a million pension will not be charged by the taxpayer besides your – you can't say it often enough – incredibly high Landesbank-pension on your account. Are you ready to relinquish today? – Listening Mr Koppler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the – Are you willing to practice renunciation today? Are you ready to send a signal to the Austrian taxpayer today and to say: I, Franz Vrannitzky, am ready for the first time in my life to give up a schilling of Austrian tax money, Mr. Federal Chancellor? - Then we have another dialogue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8802	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e8823	Mr President. High house! Mr Stadler should have left his trip to Saint Francis of Assisi to the brother of Haider or to the co-brother Krüger, who is present today in the Order to present us here again that they must be in the possession of the divine truth. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] I don't think that's true. There was probably Mr. Ewald Stadler missing in the square, Stadler, whom I would rather call Ewald "Bello" Stadler, but not as "Bello" the Beautiful, but as the Ewald of the Wadlbeißer, who always comes here to bite others in the wads instead of arguing objectively. What would interest me, Mr Stadler, would have been a few concrete things, because asking questions is quite simple. But in your urgent request there are six formulations in the Preamble, of which the last three may be concrete – on which you can be of different opinion – but points 1, 2 and 3 are only phrases. Here's under point 1: "Transition to a performance-related salary". I would like to know from you what a performance-related salary is. - Now just! We are all in favour of the payment of benefits. That's clear! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Read the application!]] But then the aff’ jumps into the water, defining what a performance-related salary is. – But you do not want to do so, because that is why you have to criticise, because you have to speak and answer it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Read the application!]] In point 2, it says: The appropriateness of the references. Now only! Of course, we are for appropriate reference! – But what are appropriate references? Tell us at last! Come out and tell me what a "adequate reference" is. But you're hiding! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Read our request!]] "Read our request," you say. Go on! I come to the third point, and that is why I bring you an example, because once you dared. – Point 3 reads as follows: Avoiding unjustified double references. – No, we are just against unjustified double references! I would only be interested in the following: What are just double references? Please give me examples! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Zukunftswerkstatt!]] Sometimes you don't even know what number of references you are for. But you should let President Brauneder talk about this, which could also talk about triple references. Why double cover, if it's threefold? I think you'd have more to bring in. - So not so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We had 13th. This is a discussion on December 1993 in which you have brought in your new reference model for Members. I have looked into the annals and I have come to believe that at that time we have taken it very carefully. has come out – that was Your reference model, please, which you have vehemently represented here; it was complicated, with any present fees and stamp marks that you would have received, with all possible and good wishes and notes – that MP Haider, who at the time received 2.056 670 million schilling, would have had 2,106 728 million schilling after the involvement reform you proposed. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You've never been able to calculate! You're as good as Kostelka at his doubles!]] Yeah, there's a big plus coming out. [[Abg. Leikam: For less performance!]] So this has been tried once. One has tried to dizzy a little bit so that more comes out of the filling horn. That was your attempt at the time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what does that really mean? – I believe that the discussion on references is not just a discussion about references, because that would be far too brief. You should be much more honest! You're in the dress today, you should come out here, a biterl tends to the head, locks hands and murmurs into the microphone, but you're honest murmuring. More honestly murmured than false and lied. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I mean, the whole thing is just a symptom discussion. But it is really a system debate. The strategy behind that is... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Which book have you been looking for in the Parliament Library today?]] The book is good. I found a good book today. It means: "To the Parliament to destroy it", by Franz Schausberger. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'm sorry!]] I pushed it up anyway, it's not out of print. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You are destroying Parliament by changing the Rules of Procedure!]] That's an interesting book. That would be a book from which to hold a reading at the FPÖ Club. There is very rarely read anyway. – Congratulations of the ÖVP on this book author: Franz Schausberger. I have to say: A truly excellent book, a very interesting book that reports on the initiatives and discussions of the then National Socialists. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You should think about what you are doing with the reform of the Rules of Procedure!]] I'm saying this right now – I don't put one too one thing, I don't do that: There are a lot of similarities that just make thinking! On the other hand, thinking is something that is partly missing in the FPÖ Group. Schausberger writes, for example: The National Socialists were particularly intensive in pursuing the political privilege theme in the Lower Austrian Landtag. At the same time as the Constitutional Assembly, they requested that the Members' reference, which was around 475 s per month, be abolished and that a compensation of 30 s be paid for each meeting. – They were opposed to service cars for members of the state government. Considerately, the way in which it was done is also true: Introducing numerous, mostly urgent requests. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: So, who is against privileges is a Nazi!? That's an interesting observation!]] Further: Often and often long-lasting word messages. Then: Update and show actual or supposed scandals, affairs and corruption. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So who is against privileges is a Nazi!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Listen! Listen! You have two ears anyway, you can turn one off, but with the second at least listen! That is very interesting. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: So who is against privileges is a Nazi!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Further: Polish aggressive and provocative formulations in the speeches of the Nazi delegates. – The Van der "Bello" should listen very carefully, because that is something that really concerns him! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Now to the favorite role: Play a martyr's role because of the often elaborate reactions of the other parties, it's here. – Almost everyone has already dominated the martyrdom. Today it was the Holger Bauer, who played this almost tearful to us. Time and again the same: privileges, party book economy, family terrorism. Always the same stitch. So it's been a while! I say it again: Not one too one, but it's damn similar! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] More humility, Brother Haider, don't interrupt in the department. In the department is told silence, silence and return, or from into the sacristy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Only these possibilities exist today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So short and good: It's about a system discussion. That's what I'm saying: You should really debate Parliament's position: stronger or weaker than the executive? I'm for strengthening, for an infrastructure expansion, for more employees. I believe that equal opportunities should be increased. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: For more salary for Members, for less talk, for higher terms!]] [[Call to the liberals: For changing the Rules of Procedure!]] Or: Parliament's question in the political system, for example with regard to the social partners. . I am in favour of the representatives, the decision-makers of the political system sitting here. Yes, they are supposed to sit here in Parliament and decide! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Only these! No opposition!]] Why did I say "social partners"? – To work on the Chamber of Workers very slowly, and with this I come to the membership survey of the Chamber of Workers. And then I remember that in the course of your agitation for the "Third Republic", you wanted to eliminate all of this: the chambers, the associations. They do not want them here in Parliament. Now you're making a discussion about the references. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The Nazis wanted the associations!]] They do not want this political system. But that's where the board members made a strike through your bill, a huge stroke! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What you want to suggest with this is – and this fits everything with what I used to quote from the book of Schausberger – to lower the value of Parliament. For what does the other mean – and with that you also intensify the crisis of confidence – when you go to the public and say that instead of 183, could 100 Members be there? That means it's 83 superfluous. It may be that 41 or 40 are not quite necessary here. [[Ironic cheerfulness in the liberals]] I don't want to disapprove of that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I say: This is, of course, something that is devalued by Parliament! The question is: Why are you doing that? Or why do you make the proposal that seven members of the government are enough too? We have already discussed this: Reichhold, Meischberger and so on! Well, that would be a government! To servus! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] So that's where the Austrians could thank themselves. That's what I'd say: It would be better anyway, there would be only seven members of the government, because if you were to introduce yourself fourteen times to Meischberger and six times Reichhold and then the sound as well, madness, and then the "Bello" as a press speaker, who always comes to the public, that would be things, a madness! [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the SPÖ.]] So you have to ask yourself the question: What is the objective behind that? And here we go. . I hope you are stupid today, Mr President, because you are always a very harsh critic, but I have already praised the Schausberger. So I think your foreheads are a little lower today. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Very good!]] It is also the next point, in the promotion of parties, at the party tax. I read somewhere, you want to abolish the party tax. First of all, this is our coffee, whether we pass on what we deserve. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] I say that very clearly once. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we can discuss all of this. Only: What is the alternative to party democracy? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If it's a tax deduction, it's not just your coffee!]] Wait, I'll be right there. – The alternative is that one may not want party structures. Maybe you don't want to? Perhaps another republic, a republic, should be built up with other leadership structures. I claim: Yes, it is! – Because it is contrary to him to constantly consult, vote, decide and so on in party bodies. Instead, the lobbyism of the rich comes. While we need to discuss fees, travel costs and so on, Brother Haider doesn't need that. Then suddenly a helicopter comes down from the sky, suddenly he comes, he has sent in, the helicopter, he can get in, he takes him away again; unfortunately he lets him down again, he does not take him to himself, but he brings him away again. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Vranitzky is coming with the jet!]] But with this he can travel from one blue clause to another blue clause, he can be transported. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Take me with you!]] You should really discuss this openly here and work it up. In this discussion about the value, the performance, what we have to do, it is being completely denied that, since Austria is a member of the European Union, the work attack has increased, which has increased with the upgrading of the Parliament's work. There is no discussion about this. For what? After all, you only want to intensify the crisis of trust. We do not want Parliament to gain confidence. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You want to abolish the opposition and change the Rules of Procedure!]] Again: What's that supposed to do with? – I would like to hear this from the "blue" speakers who come out here! Why isn't that said here? It is always only self-consecration until you are completely fogged and already see the Holy Francis sitting up there. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The ministrant is good for you!]] That's absurd, please. – I therefore believe that it would be necessary to address things clearly. Because the Brotherhood is now so gathered here, I would of course also like to bring a quote from the Matthew Gospel, and that is to say there: [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] The measure by which you measure will also be made for you. – It is superfluous to tell the brother Haider, because of course he knows the Matthew Gospel very well, because that is his recent activity. – But that is, I believe, right, for two reasons. Point 1: The "famous" § 18 of the Income Tax Act, extra-company pension, tax privilege. That's where it saves Haider to pay hundreds of thousands of schilling taxes. But perhaps – if he surprises us with the presentation of his tax ruling – he does not pay any tax at all. It may also be that, cleverly enough, he has found an institute that should have been eliminated for a long time, so that one finally – if we already talk about it: 25 percent less and donations, the Members deserve too much and so on – a definitive regime comes. [[Calls of the Abg. Dr. Haider and Mag. Stadler.]] Why? It would be the job of Brother Haider to demand this change. Why don't he do that? [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Haider is supposed to present his tax statement. – And by the way: Brown. You have to look at this: 5. July, party broadcast Brauneder. It's a shame to have this broadcast, because he's just writing in the net references. Why just the net pay? When I listen to the speeches of the F delegates, I always hear only from the gross contributions of the others. That's just what you hear: gross, gross, gross! And when the brown-eater comes, it's just: net, net, net. That's your strategy! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Triple, fat covers – but only net! To avoid paying, Brauneder says: The Social Fund of the FPÖ is "gaga". That's where the money goes, he says, and you don't know where it goes. He knows the stories of the sweater, and that's what's going on his nerves. So Brauneder does not see why he should perhaps finance the FPÖ in this way. What was listed here today is nothing, because you already had to know: How much was paid in the Social Fund? How much was paid out? Simply make yourself here and say that I have promoted any kindergartens – we can do that, that's not art. But there's no accounting. But it is not deliberately brought. And that's the scandal! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If the Höchtl had not been so nice for 21 years from his way from Klosterneuburg to the Laudongasse, we would never have come to see the case of Brauneder, because you would never have shown this by yourself from the liberals. Last but not least, Matthew's Gospel, which is a pit: "By their fruits you shall know them." - Go to hell!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9275	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. – The Rules of Procedure are known. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9299	Mr President. High house! The clearly recognizable ex-Minist Josef Cap initially claimed, in fact, that we liberals had not presented concrete models on a performance-oriented reference model. That's wrong! On today's agenda – in the interrupted debate – there is a debate on the subject: Amendments Nos 69/A (E) by Members Mag. Stadler and colleagues, 71/A (E) equal applicants, 106/A (E) also equal applicants, and all applications provide a more detailed reference model. Secondly, Mr Cap has claimed that President Brauneder is threefold referee. That's wrong! [[Ironic cheerfulness at SPÖ as well as calls:Fourfold]] President Brauneder refers only to his private assets as a ordination for Austrian and German legal history at the Faculty of Law of the University of Vienna, and second, he has a reference as a MP with the corresponding increases provided for in the Reference Act as third president of the National Council. A further reference does not refer to Mr Brauneder. [[Abg. Leikam: References as city councillor in Baden!]] In particular, the provision of a city council is immediately transferred from the competent department of the municipality of Baden directly to accounts which are not subject to its power of disposal.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9360	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Helmut Peter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9385	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It's amazing how many politicians get Gagen or salaries they don't have. Then why do they get them? I don't understand! Some comments on the amusing character of Josef Cap. It was really amusing, my compliment! Even so, dear Dr. Cap, I keep your comparison of your behavior, which you have used on the basis of the book "To Parliament to destroy it", a book by Franz Schausberger, a comparison: Free and National Socialists, simply not appropriate. I do not think it is good, and I do not believe that it is useful, although I must admit that the strategies of the FPÖ are becoming more and more unexplainable to me personally, only do I consider your comparison to be exaggerated. Today's urgency has had a lot to do with the discussion on our Rules of Procedure. The debate on the re-regulation of the Rules of Procedure – a very important debate here in this House – is being postponed into the night by this urgent question and thus undoubtedly devalued. This cannot, in fact, be the aim of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party. In my opinion, the debate on political relations has already taken place before this urgent one. I don't know why we should repeat this with a urgent one? But there are still Members of Parliament who come down here and will perhaps explain this to us. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why do you speak if it's pointless anyway?]] Because I think it makes sense to take Jörg to the content of your urgent position. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He believes it only makes sense when he talks about it!]] Mr. Stadler! If you say so, it's really embarrassing. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You yourself are embarrassing!]] I would like to thank you for the compliment, Mr Stadler – but I will no longer respond to your further calls. I think it is necessary to take this urgent position because it is one of the reasons why we need to change the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. The liberals have found a new strategy at each meeting, and the remaining four groups have had to dance after this pipe. In fact, it is unfortunate that any form of amending the Rules of Procedure is ultimately also a restriction of opposition rights. But these restrictions on opposition rights are obviously necessary in order to discipline a liberal group, which has put all the brakes in place. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That is what you want!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You shoot yourself in your own knees – and then you cry for it!]] I don't think it's good for you to continue doing so and put you out of suspicion – I'm not saying that, but I'm saying, you're putting yourself out of suspicion – to deliberately make Parliament a "quatschbude". What interest, then, do the liberals have in putting a urgent item on the same subject in a ongoing debate? I ask Mr Krüger, who will then speak to say something about this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] I'm really not a liberal Your defender, Mr Bundeskanzler – I suppose you won't need me either – but I still think it is pretty slow when we talk about the same thing again and again. So: There is a private economic contract of a bank's Director-General. There you can say: The relationship was too high or too low – but not the one who received it bears the responsibility, but the Supervisory Board who signed this contract. . So I ask you to find out those individuals who were sitting in the Supervisory Board at the time to find out that they have given a contract that is bad and unbearable. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was a national bank! It was common to put in the Supervisory Board of loud politicians!]] He's talking again, Stadler! That's amazing. Mr. Stadler! You just promised me you wouldn't say anything. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was a national bank, since it was common for the Supervisory Board to sit in there with loud political officials!]] Mr President. I suggest I take a short break until he's done. I still have time. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Calls are allowed!]] Yes, but not of such infinite stupidity, that's that hard to bear! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the Liberal Forum, as well as with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that we should conclude with this urgent question on the subject of Mr Bundeskanzler's relations. We now know them; he has decided that they are, and he will stay with them. But we should not continue to deal with Parliament. One question is also important to me, and that is a question of the self-understanding of this House. The referee law is a prime task of the legislative system, where we ourselves set the framework conditions of work and our remuneration. It is not an issue of executives, so it is not an issue for urgent inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9530	The next speaker is Mrs Stoisits.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9552	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with Mr Peter's words: There is hardly anything that has been asked in this request, which is actually the subject of execution and, therefore, now, technically, an urgent request so to speak. Nevertheless, it is of course only on such a day that it is legitimate to hold this discussion. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! That is why you do not think and do not think it appropriate if, in response to the question I consider correct in the sense of my understanding – I cannot understand whether any information you have given here was correct – you refer to the fact that this procedure, here to make a request at all, is unfrozen, unfrozen and ridiculous. – It is the right of an opposition party to make urgent requests, and it is the right of an opposition party to make them on that day where it considers it necessary. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky: But it is my right to judge that!]] Yes, and my right is to judge how you judge something. And I'm taking this right out now. That's why it's nice to whisper from me in the back. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky: You look at me so challenging and inviting!]] Then I'll turn your back on you and continue. I allow myself to deposit the opinion that the expressions "unserious", "unfrozen" and " ridiculous" do not seem appropriate to me. I am certainly not subject to suspicion, with this very right-wing half of this Parliament, to somehow sympathize, because these colleagues - and I cannot say now, because only gentlemen - have already called me in the form of interlocutory calls for some of what my person is getting, and it has also been noted in the Stenographic Protocol that they are putting crimes and participation in it. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! I tell you that I have no sympathy, but I think that you have to do the right thing. In the direction of Mr Cap. I don't know if I already said it, but: A number of colleagues have pointed out here more often in debates about the Freedom Party, how unheard of we find it that the liberals are constantly bringing animal comparisons they refer to people, which is something we know only from the National Socialist period. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: "Bello"! "Dobermann"!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I find it unheard of and inappropriate, unhappinessless when Mr Cap is speaking to my colleagues here in his speech. Ewald Stadler is known as "Bello" Stadler. [[Abg. May. Stadler: With this I can easily live!]] I don't think that's appropriate. I also think that this is a way of completely ruining the political style in this House. I now put to my colleague Cap a good idea, but my dear colleague Cap: That's exactly what you're doing, that's what the liberals want, namely to put this Parliament on a level... [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] He did that with the Schausberger quote. Only he gets into his own trap every time he comes down here. Dear Sepp Cap! It's not just that I'm personally mistaken: I think this is dangerous, and I do not think it is appropriate for this House. But when it comes to the liberals, I have to say something about this actual correction of Mr Magn. Stadlers say. All that he said about the threefold references of the Third President to the National Council, Professor Brauneder, I cannot judge what the correctness content is; I took note of that. May. But Stadler forgot to add: This waived the salary of a city council, ladies and gentlemen, since 1. ==References== When I look at the calendar, I see: ==References== July. So I mean, that's what he's going to expose himself to. I hope that, in the course of the debate on the really important item on the agenda today, namely the referee reform – I have already taken the floor – we will also hear speeches of quality characterized by self-criticism such as Mr Löschnak's speech, but also like the words of Mr Gitti Ederer and – some other names let us guess that there is something like that – it will be heard. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that today's day will not be used to let Parliament, as it were, give a chance to do so again in this game that we have been playing for so long. This makes us ridiculous ourselves, and this only serves to ensure that the Members of this House are on the right side. On the side of this house there are even more possibilities and even more reasons to take up this in a way – one can do it populistly, one can call it ung’s tasty. In any case, this is only suitable for reducing our own profession. The Federal Chancellor has already said a lot about where I agree with him, where I believe he is – I have also applauded twice. But if you have finished your remarks – I am not saying so much about the urgent question, but about the subject of today's debate – with the words: "We have opted for the second way", which is now to act immediately, "because this gives a clear signal of limitation and transparency", I must say to you: Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! There can be no talk of transparency. I can only say: You're very wrong. But anyone who is wrong can also see his error.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9650	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9671	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Cap, recalling that words like "privilegies", "mismanagement", "boncentum" have fallen from the liberal opposition, made a historical comparison, with a time that was completed in 1945. Ladies and gentlemen! There are several approaches to a topic. One of my colleagues is usually the humorist one – the other is obviously the one who tries to immunise such an important topic by pulling out, as it were, the fascist cult and attacking the liberals. Ladies and gentlemen! If you consistently apply Mr Cap's argument, you should necessarily conclude that news magazines such as "NEWS", "profile" or newspapers such as "Kurier", "Kronen-Zeitung", "Daily All" or "Oberösterreichische Nachrichten" also use this jargon: It is of course clear that, in view of the current relationship situation, we are talking about a "privileged stage" of "mismanagement" and "boncentum". Ladies and gentlemen! If you make these parallels, please also say that the Austrian media just mentioned by me are using a "storm" jargon. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] On the statements made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Federal Chancellor! I have noted some of the words of your answer to the question so that I can now respond to them. You first spoke of a "standard contract" as the Director-General of the Landesbank, referring to your personal contractual relations at the time. . Mr Bundeskanzler, even through my hands, has gone a variety of contracts, and I have been allowed to formulate contracts myself for top managers of the economy. But I can tell you: If you enjoy this Treaty They have come or are still coming as standard contracts, this is either an unreasonable argumentation, or it is a conscious harmonization of one of the largest privilege scandals in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I will prove this to you, too, Federal Chancellor! I will also prove to you that the contract mentioned by you does not in any way correspond to the formalities of a standard contract. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor! They were at the Landesbank for three years – with the exception of a bank that could only be rescued by public aid before the bankruptcy. What "fruits" have Are you now drawn from a so-called standard contract? – You have initially assigned to the Landesbank for a period of three years, which did not correspond to the 36 months you have spent there, i.e. the double-month period of service, as is usual and legislative, but you have been paid out in respect not only of the three years, but also of the entire pre-service periods, i.e. the pre-service periods of the CA and the National Bank. That's the decisive one, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You can't say I didn't get a deal from the banks mentioned that accompanied my career. – It is fixed: You have received a discharge from the National Bank, you have received a discharge from the CA and have finally received a discharge from the Landesbank over the entire period of time, i.e. over periods for which you have already been completed. You can't explain to me that this corresponds to a standard contract. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Secondly, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you speak – also impoverished – of a "anticipation for a pension". – Mr Bundeskanzler! – I also need to inform you: There is a waiting for a pension for Members of the House who, according to the current legal situation, come to a pension benefit if they belong to the House for ten years. That means, however, that if they leave the House before the end of ten years, they do not receive a pension. It's a premise. This is a conditional prospect, Mr. Federal Chancellor! But what you have received for three years from the Landesbank is not a reputation, but it is an absolute claim that becomes due as soon as it is called after the Treaty text. I can tell you, Mr Bundeskanzler, because here you refer to a "standard contract" and a so-called practice for top managers in the private sector: Such companies, which are not close to the state or state, must first call me. Imagine a privately run company that grants a manager for three years of management not only a settlement for a much longer period, i.e. for 15 or 20 years, but also an essential pension commitment, which, you understand, Federal Chancellor, you are a graduate of the University of Economics and Business Administration, must be passivized in a balance sheet as a provision, ladies and gentlemen, to the extent of a double-digit million. That is the decisive! As the former Chairman of the Bank's Executive Board, you know very well, Mr Bundeskanzler, that it is the chief task of a Chairman of the Executive Board to confirm the clearance of the annual accounts and you know very well that the care of the ordinary businessman must be exercised. If this care of the ordinary businessman is applied – I do not doubt that this is done in the balance sheets of the current Bank Austria – then this liability item with a double-digit million amount in this balance sheet – admittedly by less every year – goes through. That is to say, since we do not know the exact references, we depend on estimates and can only greatly appreciate them – this absolute right to a pension would have been passive with an amount of say and write 30 to 50 million schillings, depending on the amount promised. Federal Chancellor! You have to explain this to us here! Allow me to say that I absolutely do not like it if one can perhaps call a Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria there and there a godfather of a privilege economy. I therefore call on you to finally make a clean table. What prevents you from saying, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you are not hiding behind formalisms, that this is not a question of execution? You yourself are affected, and as the affected person, no one prevents you from making a pure table, putting the contract on the table and documenting the actual situation here, if it is different. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is only one interpretation that you have not done so, because the discussion about the privileges granted to you, about the Landesbank Treaty is not new, which has been around for some time: The fact that They have so far failed to give an opinion on this matter, so we can conclude that our argumentation is true. Mr. Federal Chancellor! I would also like to write to you if you allow me to write in the main book. If you are paid by the taxpayer – whether directly from the federal government or indirectly from a state-based bank – you have a control, you have to discuss your interests. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you try here to save salopp that the contractual clauses that now benefit you – Vranitzky – skill or sprinkling, or as it was formulated – are quite appropriate and you feel that there is no "vranitzky clause", but a "vranitzky case", then I wonder how the graces and references are compatible with this settlement and pension tax. Mr. Federal Chancellor! How do you explain this, for example, to a worker on Teerag-Adaag, who has to bring up tar in the sweat of his face on the ring road and inhale the harmful substances? How do you explain this to such a person? Or do you no longer have contact with the working population? How do you explain this treatment and pension levy, for example, to an unemployed or under-employed person who is trying to sell the homeless magazine on the subway to earn a few gross? Ladies and gentlemen! That's not how it is! You can't get away with such a serious thing – a thing that nobody understands in this country – so salopp. All comparisons with the private sector are of no use either. Mr. Federal Chancellor! They have made the desire to live in Austria. I am really saying this in the consciousness of the significance of these words. In the end, this excessive amount of redundancies and pensions practiced by you has led many Members in their own ranks who have called for their privileges – with success for many years – to the conclusion that a fair reform of references is at last taking place. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The liberals will make a large number of motions for resolutions, one of them also concerns the resolution. I should like to point out that many years ago, the Upper Austrian liberals have refrained from the discharge, claimed a stop to the valorization of their pensions and waived pensions. I remember very well that at that time the then head of state Ratzenböck wrote a letter to our countryman Dr. Achatz, who asked him to sign the proposals made by the State Councillor Achatz, in the expectation that they would not be signed anyway. It was then Achatz State Councillor, who was ready to do so before the camera in progress, and has proved that the reform proposals of the liberals, even as regards the reform of the references, are not lip-witnesses.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9804	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9825	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The desire has been made to control my incomes from my former professional activity twelve years ago. I note that the Austrian Land Bank was regularly examined by the Court of Auditors at the time that the relevant Court of Auditors reports were, of course, presented and discussed in the Court of Auditors' Committee of the National Council, including the plenary, so that the demand for public control was taken into account many years ago. Mr President. Secondly, I note that no one, as has been said here, needs interpretation or consideration of the Constitutional Service, because the Reference Act clearly states that, provided that they arise on the one hand from a ministerial office, pension rights are granted from an undertaking which is audited by the Court of Auditors and, on the other hand, if they coincide. For this reason, from the title of a ministerial pension or another public pension, no pension payment is made to me once I retire. Thirdly, it is obvious that I have paid a pension contribution over 12 years, even if I will never get into the enjoyment of a ministerial pension, so that I have to point out that this is not a privilege which falls free of charge to me, but that I pay a pension contribution in accordance with the law, like any other member of the Federal Government, which currently stands at 20.4 percent of gross income. I was asked here to finally put the contract on the table, for which I am not at all obliged. It is not necessary, however, because the Members of this House are reading it at every parliamentary meeting anyway, so it is well known. In addition, Mr President, you will understand that I cannot talk to you in detail about the balance sheet of Bank Austria as regards the pension provision because I am not dealing with it; that is not my job either. In addition: If you can't start with the word "presence" and claim to have great experience in the writing of service and board contracts, you may have missed out on the fact that management contracts for large stock companies are always made and drawn up in such a way that a certain pre-service period is counted, because no one will become a member of the Board of Directors of a large company immediately after completion of his studies, but just after a certain professional period and experience. That was the same thing with me, even if You don't believe it and here ten or twenty times claim the opposite: This contract is almost literally – I say "nearly" because certain updates are always taking place – the Treaty of my predecessor at the time, whose contract was again the same as that of its predecessor, so that it was not about negotiating anything individually, but it was a standard executive contract in this institute, in this stock company. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You've been finished for one and the same time!]] You know the contract exactly anyway, and if you prove yourself so contractually, then perhaps read it again, then you will see that... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He said you were finished for one and the same time!]] No, that's not right, but it's really not the place to discuss this in detail. Because you say 'presence', I would point out that I have reached an agreement with the bank management, a written agreement, a binding agreement, during the membership of the Austrian Federal Government not to obtain any pension rights, which, of course, seems to me, but that is also recorded in writing. In addition, Mr President, I believe and am convinced that with the Teerag-Adaag people I have at least as good a margin as you yourself and that I have shown several times. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] If You tell the Teerag-Adaag people who have to breathe in bad fragrances there without interruption your free wisdoms about job security, then I must say, I am convinced that they believe me more than you do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must say: I have answered all the questions I have asked myself, adding that for 12 years now I have no longer been referring to the appointment of a member of the board of an Austrian large bank, the office of a member of the Federal Government, and I am being rewarded under the referee law. This is transparent, that is open, there are no additional references to me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: "Exaggeration" is right, Federal Chancellor! You only "understand" an office! That's right! I have to give you the right first time. You "understand" the office!]] But if I listen to you... [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now you have deserved a praise!]] I'm quite shocked at your praise anyway. But if you call me a good verse of my office, I'm very right, because normally, when you talk about it down there, I'm faced with more of annoyance than a smell of prevention. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I listen to you very carefully!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: But now he didn't think much!]] Mr President. I believe that I have answered all the questions raised to me – and I expect the same questions to be raised by the freedom of movement at the next session.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9948	Mrs Karlsson is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Speech time: 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e9991	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! Mr Krüger's statement is no longer to be addressed after the German Chancellor's recent and x-th clarifications. However, I would like to return to the statements made by Mr Stadler because what happened here was immense. I must oppose Mr Peter and Mr Stoisits, who have tried to protect this group from over-exposed comparisons. It turns out to be MP Stadler here and says that the Federal Chancellor comes from a Marxist parent house. That is to say, he insinuates that the Chancellor has, as it were, Marxist ideas, which is not an outlawed political attitude in itself. If someone said the same about Deputies Haider, the vortex would be gone. And that is why I find it unfair to apologise to someone from this group at the least or to speak of over-exposed comparisons, because here we are working with all the means of submission, slander, abuse. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Haider-Papa was certainly not a Marxist!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He was a KPÖ member! Don't you know?]] The parents of Deputies Haider are or have been, as you have learned from the newspapers, National Socialists. And that's what I've been talking about. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How almost all the Federal Government ten years ago!]] Secondly, Member of the Stadler reserves the right to be compared with an animal. He himself referred to himself as a "doberman", while in the last session he held back that the "brain of a dazzle" would be granted to him – rightly. Mr Stadler is therefore right with his custody to believe that their animals are intelligent animals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10069	Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, the Members spoke with "vote colleague" and so on. I would prefer that we should not address ourselves that way, but also use the verba legalia we should use in the discussion from all sides if this debate is not to be given a very bad censorship in the public. - I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10085	But this debate is also interesting to me in a different way. The privilege debate has not taken place so long, as long as it was really a privilege to be represented here in this House. As long as large-scale owners in the style of the bear valley owners were able to determine here alone – in the manor there is still that, the school children are still shown – there was no privilege discussion. The discussion began when the representatives of the people, the poor slugkers who were poor slugkers themselves, came into the house. The arguments started, they deserved too much and so on. That's what I'd like to say: "With full pants it's easy to smell," says Volksmund. If I have enough, I can prescribe the other, they have to pay admission when they come here. But what we need – I also said in my club – is a clear, transparent income regime, which also allows those in the house to sit here, representing those who speak of by Members of the Krüger with a slightly tearful voice, who work outside. And that's not the case. This is reflected in the social composition of this House. The Freeman likes from the systematics that house reserved for the great landowners and the hereditary peer, namely the House of Lords – with the various remunerations that exist. However, what your proposals do not contain is something that the English Parliament has, namely the disclosure of Members' interests and not only of public references, but of every helicopter flight, every trip and every penthouse, and this is also presented to the public. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: If we take this in, do you agree?]] To say that all public relations have to be revealed, and that which is granted to me privately does not matter, nor is it the way out of this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Mr Vergestnitsch will thank you!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, however, I would like to lose a few words about a friend of yours who loves you, about the occasion of this referee law discussion. [[Abg. Ms Rosenstingl: Mrs Colleague! The only penthouse owner is the union president!]] In its four-year period convention, the government parties have very likely proposed a reform of the referee law. It was also planned to discuss these here in peace and clarity by the end of the year. Then there was an occasion, and it is still not cleared. He managed to reverse the perpetrator-sacrifice. Last year, the honourable Member Höchtl called on all decent colleagues through his wide-ranging legs, and today it is the wide-ranging pockets. I am not being held hostage by Mr Höchtl. We have not deserved this, which we are also public servants, but which we are trying to solve our situation to the best of our knowledge and conscience. For what honourable Member Höchtl did was not legal, and it did not comply with the law. I would also like to point this out. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The same thing the Kostelka did!]] I believe that we are taking a right step today – the Chancellor has already said this in his reply to the question – that it is still necessary to fulfil the government's plan, namely to create an income pyramid, to make clear how much a politician, a politician and what to do. We need to continue this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10171	The next honourable Member will be Mr Dr Graf. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10201	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. I also noticed that Mr Karlsson's speech was almost without any applause at all. It was weak both in content and in the whole picture. I am therefore going to save myself from taking a closer look at it. [[Abg. Koppler: Now no one has clattered!]] - We're going to look at that. In the second speech by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, he said a few things that would challenge me to go a little closer. He said that the Court of Auditors' control was in any case taken into account when the Landesbank was still being controlled, i.e. in its active time. Federal Chancellor! No one here in this House has said or has ever claimed that the contract concluded with you as the head of the Landesbank is unlawful or ultimately liable for any legal error, but it has been all right to pay you the contributions in your active activity accordingly to the contract. That was never disputed either. It is now only more about the moral definition of these claims which you now have in your current role as Federal Chancellor in relation to the present Treaty. They are hiding behind the referee law – I think it is false. I have tabled a request to this effect in the normal debate, which would enable us to clarify this once and for all. You should have the highest interest in clarifying the fact that the pension is, in principle, excluded from your pension due to the provisions applicable to you, since the Landesbank, today Bank Austria, is subject to auditing or auditing of the Court of Auditors. They forget, however, that this is no longer the present state of affairs, as the shares of the federal government, the shares of the public sector are falling below 50 percent or below the legal mark, so that no longer so, so that a clarification should be made in this regard. It also deals with the request that I have made, which, admittedly, is a little complicated, because it contains a lot of references, but it is accessible to everyone in this House and therefore comprehensible. A clear regulation could be adopted in this respect. They further explained that they were not concerned with the accounting of Bank Austria. This was never necessary either, but Mr Krüger has only discussed generally the rules or the legal provisions of accounting. As Federal Chancellor and former head of the Landesbank, you are certainly able to understand these statements by Dr. Krüger. I also confirm that these are correct, because – and you may not know that – we are bank colleagues in themselves. I worked in the same business as you. You are now a registered pensioner, i.e. no longer an active member; I am still an active member of this bank. I have to tell you that it is not the only way of trying to get out of the affair you can strive for when you try to lukewarm with today's Bank Austria, its own country bank, at a time when you take over a mandate. I've been on the 24th. March my exemption from Bank Austria AG, previously Z–Landesbank–Bank Austria AG, before it was still Landesbank or Central Savings Bank, was requested. I can tell you: It is good for a politician to go ahead with a good example. I'd like to make a copy of it for you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have tried to set a good example – even in view of the knowledge that the Federal Chancellor was not a good example of how he regulates his situation with the employer, with Bank Austria, formerly Z–Landesbank–Bank Austria AG, previously Landesbank or Central Savings Bank of the municipality of Vienna. I have been released without remuneration, without a claim to pay, without a claim to pay, without a pension claim, without a pension claim to be acquired – that is to be read – and therefore I get my wage bill on a monthly basis. I am very grateful for the fact that Bank Austria is still sending me wages. I can also show colleagues Koppler if he does not believe it. These payroll bills, which I get every month, say that I have zero reference, even 20 s minus, i.e., I pay 20 s per month. This is the trade union contribution. That's where I'm still a member. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's why my payroll looks like this. I would like to see the Federal Chancellor's wage bureau look that way, and, like the small Member, Martin Graf, he does not accept the bank's claims for settlement. and that he, like the small Member, Martin Graf, does not have his pension rights and has no corresponding claims. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Karlsson.]] This is one, as I mean, clean and lupen-clean solution – and not the cashing of wastes and multi-handlings. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say the following: When I changed from the municipal level to the National Council in 1994, I also refused the 735 000 s of discharge, because I find it morally unacceptable that, after four years of activity in municipal policy, one should get such a high deal. I've also given up on it. This is another example, so that you don't just call Dr. Haider, who permanently abandons anything so that you can call one from our ranks. And that's exactly what it's all about. Federal Chancellor! I have to tell you – I can't say that –: It is not a particularly courageous act to shudder behind a reference law that is still dizzy to do so. Make You're pure table on this! Pay back the handles you've collected! You'll get a finish anyway. But at least give up on one! Figures As has already been said today, you have returned to Bank Austria, which you have received at an altitude of about 3.7 million schilling! Finally, do not legally waive – and not just as you always suppose – the law behind a reference – of your pension claim, just as the small Member of Parliament Martin Graf, then you have no more problems! In this regard, I ask you not only as a Member of this House, but also as a colleague of the former same bank, in which we both worked, on behalf of the staff: Pay this back at last! That can't be any harder for you than me! Stop it at last! Then you will surely gain confidence in it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the event that you do not believe what I have told you about my person, I would like to give you a copy of all the explanations I have made. Then you may be able to write it down and make it the same if you have no one who will bring you similar regulations to paper, as I have finally succeeded. I would like to tell you once that there are several ways of separating from an employer. [[Abg. Koppler: That's why the urgent request is made!]] - Not just for that. That's a point. There are several ways to separate from his employer or to find a clean solution with him. In this regard, I ask you to: Please welcome what I have said, because the 10,000 employees of Bank Austria do not understand your regulations! I continue to talk to my former colleagues very often. No one understands! However, they are all afraid to be reduced to say it to them about the staff representatives who would be appointed to do so, because at least 1 000 employees will be cut off next year at Bank Austria. But no one speaks of paying back for us Austrians in the way of the role of example. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to introduce an old-fashioned motion for a resolution, which the liberals have already tabled several times in committees and in plenary sessions. But he's more up-to-date than ever. So I quote: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This request includes, on the one hand, the preparation of a system of references, which we believe is justified, and, on the other hand, an immediate component with a 30 percent abandonment of current references until this new system enters into force. If you really think it is serious about reducing political privileges, then you agree to this proposal! If Mr Bundeskanzler takes it seriously with his statement that he waives rights, as he believes, in accordance with the referee law, then he should also, once again, legally binding in an agreement with his former employer, disband his moral – as I do – non-advanced relations and refrain from them and in addition repay his bank Austria settlement, which has been received so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10327	The motion for a resolution referred to is in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and is under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10351	Mr President. There has already been an interpretation here at the speaker's desk, which is incorrect, i.e. the claim that the pension claim does not conflict with the referee law if, in the meantime, the majority of the Republic has fallen below 50 percent of the share capital of this bank. It is true, rather, that the assessment according to the Remuneration Act applies to the date on which the pension claim arose. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is an interpretation!]] At that time, the financial institution had been examined by the Court of Auditors because the Republic had a share of more than 50 percent. That's the first one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] The second: I don't think I'm behind the reference law at all, but You have to decide: Shouldn't I now stand behind the referee law, or should I make a new agreement with my former employer? . I do not support any law at all, but tell you that there has already been an application in which another former official of a large Austrian monetary institution with an analogue contractual situation such as mine has submitted to the Federal Government a request for a ministerial pension, the Federal Government has rejected this request in accordance with the refer ence law, and in this case no ministerial pension is to be disbursed. Thirdly, you think I should go ahead with a good example. I say the following to you: At the time, I have as Minister of Finance and now as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about a third of my previous income. Multiply this to twelve times, then this is a multiple of the finishing, and the example is not so bad at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I would also like to reassure you, Mr Commissioner: I am also at the trade union, I have not quit either and pay my monthly contribution. I suppose it's the same union, so you're going to have a lot more solidarity with me. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Or you with me!]] Don't you wonder that you get a salary note from the bank and I don't. You're a master, and I've been excreted. That's the explanation!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10420	The next speaker is Mr Pumberger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10441	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Privilege Friends and Spesenritter! Three words by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany about this matter, which according to his information is so insignificant, have already made me supportable. Three times he speaks to justify himself. Three times he has done nothing but justify his unwarranted remunerations, settlements and pensions. Federal Chancellor! You don't just need explanation, you need action! Avoid your pension claim, and proceed with good example, then you will have rest for a long time from our requests and urgent requests regarding your privileges. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam]] But this will, as you have prophesied, be the subject of a debate in a few months' time. So: Not only talk, not just explain, talk around and not just tell the House with a broken, almost whining voice, how poor you are, what you don't get, what you could still get, but go ahead with good example, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Hallucinations!]] The fish's head has already been spoken today, I don't want to go into it any more. But if the chancellor of a republic went ahead with a good example, ladies and gentlemen, if the chancellor, if your chancellor were to advance from your group with a good example, then not Members would sit in your ranks, here in the House and in the country days that must be ashamed of their entrepreneurial qualities! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New calls at the SPÖ.]] But now it is true that the Federal Chancellor is right in Baldrian for the bad conscience of the Nehmers in the Socialist Group. [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Has your income changed?]] [[Call the SPÖ:Abcasher! Abzocker!]] He is Baldrian for the bad conscience of socialist Nehmer. And this contributes to the fact that nothing changes at all. There are the Abzockers, starting from Mr President – he is still there; I believed he had to take up his second job as the Council of Parliament, but then at 6 p.m. he will be able to change, there he will be able to do it. [[Abg. Leikam: Abcasher! Abzocker!]] There is Abzoker Novotny, who wrongly refers to 100 percent of his university professor's content and is ready to pay in instalments. Anyone else, who is wrongfully cashing something, must pay everything back on Heller and Pfennig without time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Dr. Pumberger! Has your income fallen as a doctor?]] The excavator Kostelka enjoys his increased income – he's not here right now; he's just going to have a expensive coffee – and he wants to go ahead with a good example. [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: What do you get as a doctor? Do you earn less as a doctor? You don't want to do that?]] Minister Staribacher was in office for only nine months, and he was extremely unsuccessful, Mr Colleppelmüller. Her Minister Staribacher – nine months of unsuccessful minister – has further driven the state into debt and receives three months' payoff for his nine months as Minister. Can you justify that at all? - That's incredible! He cashes 400 000 s to the right, 400 000 S discharge! That is why I am bringing in our motion for a resolution, which refers in particular to the Causa Staribacher, so that you can go along with it. [[Further continuous calls of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller, Koppler and Seidinger]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Abzocker!]] Have you noticed, Mr. Colleppelmüller? Then you also know how to vote. Save yourself your unqualified calls! I can tell you something about Upper Austria. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] I'll tell you something about Upper Austria, about your friend, the countryman Helmut Schamberg, you know him very well. He is also one who takes a good example at the Federal Chancellor, but with his Causa the case Höchtl of the ÖVP – the notorious case Höchtl! - just put in the shadows. Imagine: Deputies from the SPÖ in the Landtagsklub Upper Austria, for 20 years he no longer went to school, and 20 years ago he left the active school of the trade school in Ried. ==References====External links== In June 1996, he returned to the trade school in Ried. – But now you’re calm, you’re sure why he did that. I'm telling you, too, why: In fact, a letter from ÖVP National School Council President Riedl has been received in the Ried Trade School. He writes in it the following: Dear Mr. Landtagsreiter! On the occasion of the completion of a service period of 40 years – 20 years he is no longer in school – for faithful services – this irony! – a anniversary grant of 400 out of 100 of the monthly allowance due to him at the time of service. And now it comes: As you, Mr Schamberg, meet the conditions for the 40-year anniversary of the service, you will receive a anniversary allowance of four times a month. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] He's not been in school for 20 years, and now he's getting a anniversary allowance of four months for a particularly faithful service! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller.]] From this occasion – the letter continues – the National School Council for Upper Austria thanks you for your services provided to the Republic of Austria. And now – this is the highlight of the pikanery – he almost amically writes in the final sentence: May this recognition encourage you, my dear friend Shammerger. "My dear friend Schamberger from SPÖ," says the friend of the ÖVP, Riedl. – This is how the members of the government parties, the representatives of the government parties, venture to each other’s posts with lucrative incomes. "May this recognition encourage you to continue devoting your valuable services to school and youth." – That’s really inconceivable! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: "Inconceivable"!]] He knows exactly, for 20 years, he hasn't entered the school, for 20 years he didn't want to know anything about the trade school Ried, but now he's going immediately the same day. His own signature is on it: Schamberger, 17. June – entrance, Schamberger, 17. June – knowledge and follow-up; Signature: Shammerger. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He has taken a good example at the chancellor, because the chancellor does not make it any different, and there he is really in good company. That's why he doesn't have a bad conscience, as do all of you here who take you off, and you don't have a bad conscience with it, while you're incite the citizens to a wave of stress after another! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you count less as a doctor?]] I can tell you what we liberals do in the Upper Austrian country day – because I come from Upper Austria: In 1988, our liberals in the Upper Austrian Parliament began to put a stop to the salary of politicians by application. The request was accepted! But now you're baff, Colleague Doppelmüller! He was accepted. At that time, this debate was also under way, and we said: We can make a salary stop. With regard to the infamous political pensions, Mr Bundeskanzler, the liberals in Upper Austria submitted a request for the abolition of political pensions in 1989. This was rejected. The same application was reintroduced in 1990 – again rejected; again in 1992 – was rejected. In 1994 he was referred to the Subcommittee. At the beginning of 1995, after six years of constant struggle and the use of the liberals, a majority of the decision was made in the Upper Austrian Landtag that political pensions would have the opportunity to waive and abolish them. This is an achievement of the liberals in Upper Austria! Take an example in Carinthia, in Vorarlberg, in Tyrol and especially in Vienna and in federal politics! That's how the Upper Austrian Freemans do it! This is a good example for all of you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Something else has been done by the Upper Austrian Freemans. I'm always just talking about the red excavators, but there's also black excavators. [[Call the SPÖ:Freedom!]] The Höchtl case is already well known, I do not want to go into it any more. But there's the case of Kukacka. The case of Kukacka was the occasion at that time, 1989. – The "Fall Kukacka" is not here right now, Kukacka is not present. After one and a half years of national council activity in Upper Austria, as a member of the Upper Austrian Government, he received a six-month settlement of a Council of State, and this was even a bit contrary to the EIA delegates. They thought: Crucibles! The look is really not particularly good in this case. – The reds immediately joined them because they thought: We don't afford this to the black kukacka. And so the free request for the abolition of unwarranted political settlements was accepted at the time. After one and a half years of national council activity in Upper Austria, Mr Kukacka is transferred directly to the Parliament in Vienna and has only another political function. So that will no longer exist in the future, at least from Upper Austria. That was accepted at the time. If that were true today, a kukacka would no longer receive a six-month deal. At that time, however, this was the occasion. He hasn't paid this back on a voluntary basis, but in the beginning something like that will not be paid. – Also an achievement of the Upper Austrian Freemans! Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to point out once again that if you are going ahead with a good example, you can do something too! [[Abg. Dr. Doppelmüller: Do you calculate less?]] If German Chancellor Vranitzky progressed with a good example, he could also achieve something, then he could reach and force a moral change among all the politicians in Austria, and that would be very valuable for the budget in Austria, the morale in Austria and for the reputation of politicians and democracy in Austria, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10726	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Haller. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e10751	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Again and again in this House the question of the sensibleness of the number of urgent requests made by the liberals is asked. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] In fact, it is quite simple and quite logical: If you have observed who our urgent questions were addressed, especially in 1996, then you know that it was mostly the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. It is simply a legal possibility for us to confront the Chancellor in a very formal, legal manner with his own contradictory statements here in the House so that they can also be held in the seat information of the National Council. I am sure that this is also a reason for the fact that, in the future, we do not want to admit this democratic means as often as possible. Federal Chancellor! In the autumn of 1994, in other words, a year and a half ago, you took the slogan to the election, you want to convey to the Austrians a new quality of thinking, a new quality of action. In contrast, a year later, in the autumn of 1995, you have already proved yourself to be the great calmer, the subject, not as a improver, but as a static. Since we could already look at the more often here in this House, with what enormous arrogance I have to say that you are answering the questions of freedom here and presenting your own political morals and values: Then, as a parliamentarian, I take out the right to do the same, even though I feel the way you make your replies are inconvenient and I am not normally the one who likes to go under the belt line. Federal Chancellor! You have given your constituencies, but you have just told us in one of the last answers in the army that election promises are not actually given in Austria in order to comply with these promises. Austria seems to be different from other European countries. In the meantime, you yourself have certainly learned that there has already been a conviction in France for breaking elections and that Turkey's women now also want to complain to former Prime Minister Tansu Çiller. There, election promises are sued. This will probably not be the case in Austria. You seem to be expecting at least this, since you are still here today and are defending the overall Austrian regime, the politicians affected by it and the new regulation, as it stands, even though you have made very critical comments in the press a few days ago. If, in the press today, the president of your party's club in Parliament, Dr. Kostelka, says that this new regime of political relations is transparent, fair and fair, and accuses us of having freedom of movement only because there is a non-existent privilege state – so he accuses us that we are once again only polemizing – then I must say, Federal Chancellor: They're unscrupulous. They are the ones who are constantly revising their own statements in a very short time. I would remind you that you recently wanted to think abroad about a new legislation in the field of arms exports, but two days later here in the House have immediately revised this. – Faith You, too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you not notice that this is very slow, but certainly that he feels sold for stupid purposes? If you say to us liberals that we are not truth fanatics, then I can only pass on this "complement" – under quotation marks – to you. [[Abg. Dunst: That's right the Federal Chancellor!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You said today that we liberals only wanted to jump on a moving train today. – Mr Bundeskanzler! This statement has long been contradicted! For many years now, there have been repeated requests from the liberals, who have also been introduced here in the House and which are contained in the Stenographical Protocols. That contradicts your statements, and the truth content of these statements is already in question to me. We liberals have always called for a performance-related income for politicians for years and have taken action to eliminate the unjustified double payments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wallner.]] We paid back! We liberals already, that's what distinguishes us! We have our own moral demands – unlike you. [[New calls and ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] There you can laugh as you want! The one who last laughs, laughs best, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, we have again formulated our freedom demands in a new application for the x-th time, which is again on the table. That you, Mr Bundeskanzler, have given your clubman Kostelka the right to the APA again today and that – I do not want to take the ÖVP completely out of the drawing – Klobobmann Khol says today that a separation of the payment bill and the unemployed income – in a political vote on it – would not have been useful for political and technical reasons, it simply speaks volumes! And for me it is also a matter of volume that we are creating a very flexible framework, which is then to be specified by the President-in-Office in his own house: by Mr Fischer, by Mr Kostelka, by Mr Neisser. The latter will decide on the new fee schemes. But it is precisely these people who have recently shown themselves to be one of the beneficiaries of unemployment incomes. That's where I have to say: Excuse me many times, but I already lack the confidence that something decent will come out of it! [[Abg. You want us too!]] One thing has proved to be true so far: They have had a long time to produce something meaningful here, but it has always proved that ÖVP and SPÖ are not hurting each other in this area, because both parties are equally affected. The cases have already been discussed a few times today, I do not want to repeat. [[Abg. Koppler: Which one?]] It is true that this proposed new scheme even allows for the creation of own posts for officials. I really wonder what's going to be better in this case. And the major reform steps, Mr Bundeskanzler, about which you spoke today about the APA, you have only announced them again. Now a few words about your party colleague Cap, who, in a kind of humor that I really cannot follow, tries again and again – yes, I will also explain to you why – to sidetrack from the problem of discussion. [[Abg. Koppler: I think so!]] [[Abg. Sophie Bauer: I think so!]] I can only say: I find this kind of humour dirty – dirty and unworthy. [[Abg. Koppler: Listen to the Stadler too!]] And since you have so enthusiastically given his remarks, I must say that I think you were just relieved about the breath he gave you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Now we have a breathing break! Now we have a breathing break in these versions!]] He has tried to question the length and width of how to define "performance-related references" and "adequate references" in the future and why we liberals have not done so far. I have to say: In the government so far was his party, not we, and yet we liberals have tried this for years. [[Abg. Leikam: You won't be so soon!]] [[Abg. Don't worry.]] No, we tried. We have put forward proposals, Mrs Colleague. I don't know, don't you really want to deal with the truth? [[Abg. Koppler: Do you know your honorary husband, the Götz?]] We are now talking about the requests we have made, and your colleague seems to argue that this was the case. [[Abg. Koppler: Let’s talk about the idol! Say something about the Götz! About your honorary husband!]] When I say something, please leave me and my decision, just as I do not prescribe anything to you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is clear to me that you are not so much in line with what I am now giving to you. But one thing is clear: that the citizen outside – and you know it very well – has no understanding at all for this discussion and for the arguments you are using here. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: He's really interested in the Götz!]] Over the last two years, two load packages have been imposed on the public. And now you prove again with your proposals, with your meticulous proposals of a change, that you yourself are not at all ready to save. What you have delivered today, please, this is piecework, and this piece of work has not come from you on your own initiative, even if it is so nice to apply for initiative, but you have only produced it under the pressure of public opinion and the Causa Höchtl. [[Abg. Silhavy: And the Causa Browneder!]] We all know that. Don't be so beautiful, it doesn't make any sense! Imagine the facts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For one thing I would like to say to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and to you at the end: On this question you and also the Federal Chancellor have long lost to the voters. It would, I believe, be necessary, for your part, to correct a moral act. [[Abg. Silhavy: You need to talk about morality in the case of a brown-eater!]] It has proved that there is this kind of political income, this kind of unemployed income only in Austria. This is a bad example. I would also like to ask you once again, Mr Bundeskanzler: Put a really moral sign here by giving up the discharge! I also call on the politicians of the two coalition parties, the Members, to really give up their unemployed incomes and pay back what you have collected so far! I believe that this would only be good for the political situation in Austria as a whole and would certainly also be in favour of the consent of the liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11018	The next speaker is Mr Sauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11040	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I did not actually intend to speak on this subject. I am no longer very young in years, but very young in this function, but I have already heard this subject in this short period of time, which I may belong to the High House, very often. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I feel like one of the privileged people in this house. Yes – perhaps unlike you – I feel privileged because I may be one of 183 who represent the people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I may hear some voices from the people because I am certainly more in my constituency than some of the Members of this House. I am also a privileged with a double profession, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. If, today, Mr Oellinger has gone out of here and talked about the dual professions, I must say, as a privileged person with a double profession, I feel: I am a farmer and a representative of this House. I call you my privileges: Today, before I left for Vienna, I still did my stable work. - That's my privilege. And I answered, ladies and gentlemen, when a reporter of my local newspaper recently asked me what I'm going to do on vacation: First of all, I'm going to work out my forest damage, because I haven't done it yet, because I've had to spend many, many hours – even with special sessions – in this high house. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: There you have to pick up more people! You don't have to do everything yourself!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're risking your forest!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That's right, I could take up people doing this work, that's right. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You are obliged to repair the forest damage!]] But, Mr President, I have to... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You are legally obliged to repair the forest damage!]] You see, my colleague, and I'll do that. I'm obliged, and I'll do it. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: The second flight from the Borkenkafer is already over!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: There's already a little late!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That would have been a long time ago!]] We have done the first work, and second work is still to be done. I believe that as a professional colleague and fortwirt, you may also have the opportunity to intervene in this particular type of work. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No one has to be a politician!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Only someone who can afford it! Only someone who is sponsored like you!]] That's right, nobody has to. It is only with a total of 4.5 hectares, Mr Haider, that I cannot afford any additional workers, unlike you in the Bärental, and perhaps not workers from abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Say what do you deserve?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Call:Black worker]] I have the privilege, ladies and gentlemen, of doing some things I could not do late in the holiday season. But I also have the privilege – and especially at this special meeting today – of not being able to be there when my best friend is carried to the grave. This is also a privilege, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is stupid!]] This is stupid when a good friend is carried to the grave, Mr. Haider? I am opposed to such a statement! That's what I keep from! That's it! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is stupid! If you take on a duty, you also have to fulfill it!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Either one is a parliamentarian or not!]] [[Many other calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Keep talking, Willi, keep saving!]] Yes, I have the privilege, ladies and gentlemen, and I note in your excitement that my words have some accuracy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This debate leads to the fact that all politicians, including the politicians of the Freedom Party, are not in the best light in the population. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Our election results are against this!]] It is always spoken of by the privileges, and there is no difference between whether someone belongs to the ÖVP, the SPÖ or an opposition party, it is generally spoken of by the politicians. [[Abg. Meisinger: From the privileges of the Höchtl!]] And I dare to say that with these debates you do not do good to you and to us. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You have to eliminate the abuses once!]] If today a debate on the abolition of certain maladministrations – as you call it: Abolition of misunderstandings – led and especially colleague Ollinger is going out of here and is already thinking about new ones, saying that politicians could come to mind if they directly calculate that they buy a net card, but then calculate the individual journeys, then I have to say that this is a little far-reaching. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: What is it?]] That's what you're thinking about how to deal with something. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: As the Schelm thinks, he is!]] And this idea is far from coming from the government parties! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make one more point: If this debate continues in this way, I dare to say, we have over a short or long time only more third-class politicians or those who can afford it. – I’m not so superlative that I’m among the very first, but I have so much confidence that I think I’m not one of the third.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11396	The next speaker is Mrs Madl. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11417	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the almost two years that I have been in this House, I have often wished for these parliamentary debates to be broadcast on television all the time. I have loved this very often, but today I really liked it most, because today all those on television could have sat down, all of you, as you are sitting there, and they could have listened to your speeches, how many of you were sick and really hooked up on privileges, but you did not know anything about them in the Sunday speeches, at election events where you are talking to English tongues, the voters you are supposed to vote for. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Desired!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: That means: wished!]] [[Further calls:Wished! Desired]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That's what people hear today! And I'll tell you one thing: They would not have been deterred next time by a letter from the Federal Chancellor or by as many election promises as they are used to. [[Abg. Silhavy: You would have been deterred from you!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: You can turn off the TV! And now people have turned away!]] Then they would have finally known what is being played here in this House! Perhaps my wish will be fulfilled once. Then there would be another climate here, namely that climate, which also forces the coalition parties to do, once a bit – just a little! – to tell the truth. Because then you must also represent what you say here in your constituency and in front of your electorate. That would be a healthy story once! [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Now people would turn away!]] With regard to this reference pyramid, which is now to come and which has been promised to us for so long, I see no starting point for it to come in autumn. It will probably come once in the autumn. But in which? In the fall of this year? Autumn next year? Maybe in the next legislative period? Maybe it's another thing to think of breaking the coalition so that we'll have elections again. Then you can push this debate a little further, and then the whole can still celebrate happy origins in the federal states. I also think that the Commission, which is to be used here to justify unemployment incomes or 50 percent incomes of individual mandates, is an absolute nonsense, because there are enough examples – not only the Höchtl case, but there are also enough examples in the federal states – where we have already made a regulation, but where these regulations have naturally been bypassed. Today, for example, the chairman of the SPÖ Landtagsklub in Upper Austria, which covers about 100 000 S gross per month and is also a court council in the education department of the Upper Austrian state government, said in an interview that he fulfils both tasks; however, two minutes later he said of himself that he could, because in both functions of the desk is the same, not say for every hand, whether he is doing it as court council or as a delegate. If he can't do it himself, please, yes, how should a Commission determine whether he is to fulfil the purpose which ensures a 50 percent or a 75 percent relationship to him. I think that's another bypass. This will calm people down, and so again a beautiful ceiling will be spread over everything, and we can release a new load package on the population again, because the politicians have already saved themselves. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is also a second case: Mr Robert Elmecker is also retired, has a Members' reference, which we all know, plus 21 000 S pension. That's what he was accused of, and immediately he said: "Only 19 000 S" – he said that he said that this was really to be transferred – "but I have to pay for party tax." This is a clear case of additional party financing, which the taxpayer pays in addition to the legal promotion of the party. [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the brown-eater?- Oh, my God!]] If this is to be justified for the reason that one is referring to an unemployed income of 19 000 s, then I must say that the soup is really a bit thin. Mr Pallwein-Prettner was also quoted today. I heard an interview. As you know, this countryman has obtained 50 percent of his teacher’s salary without ever having been taught. Now, of course, he has been rebuffed because of the discussion that has occurred in recent times, and – see! – he was sitting on his desk on Saturday as well. He was assigned a desk in the National School Council. Of course, he was interviewed immediately on Saturday in Radio Oberösterreich, and there he was asked: Member of the European Parliament, what is going to be You're doing it now? And he answered literally: "I'm following my requirement, which is given to me." The interviewer then asked: "Yes, what will you do?" The answer: "It's not known to me." So, ladies and gentlemen, 50 percent of a deal is handled here! One creates services that lack any sense of meaning and do not bring anything at all, just so that someone can sit there and say, I avoid my service, my work has a meaning. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Ask the Stäger!]] – But he admits to himself that it is not. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As I said, there are still a lot of other things that would affect the reference pyramid regime. We have in our city of Steyr in Upper Austria – this is the fourth smallest city with its own statute, 42 000 inhabitants – a mayor who is going to say and write 181,000 S a month. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Which party is he from?]] From the SPÖ! Socialist of course. That's social-democratic. The mayor of the small town of Steyr deserves more than the mayor of Wels. Of course, he is indignant, but he does not dare to say something, because the mayor of Wels has fallen into displeasure with his party, and of course he does not want to complain out loud about his references. We have something else nice in Steyr, in the city Senate. A few years ago, there was the rule that the Senate members did not have to pay any pension contributions at all. You have to imagine that! While they have fulfilled the status of pensioners, they have not made any pension contributions until then. A few years ago, one came up with – we have been holding the privilege debate for many years – that something has to be changed in the city of Steyr; and that is what one has done. The city Senate now pays 16 percent of the pension contributions, and someone has to be a member of this Senate for ten years, so that he can then manage his pension. There is, one must know, an exception: If someone is sick and can no longer work, he can claim a pension after four years. And so there is a social democracy again – this social democracy is in no way "social" – after exactly four years – such a coincidence! – leaving sick – he is inability to work – but at the same time he has received the job as director of a HAK. Now I have to ask Mr Mühlbachler – he was also a director at a trade academy in Freistadt – whether it doesn't hurt him if someone who is unable to work as a member of the city Senate can be loose director of a trade academy. And now the dear Lord goes here and wants to claim his pension. I think that's the summit of naughtiness! It can't be any more trouble! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Klubobmann Khol has already said literally today: Let's not make our own profession bad! We don't hurt our profession. Bad are only those Members who have passed laws to secure their unemployed income – and we are thrown into a pot with them! Only by an incident, the case of Höchtl, will it be obvious – and it was no longer possible to hide – how deep the swamp really is. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs Colleague, you already know that the FPÖ has decided to do so!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 1983!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Not abuse!]] Not abuse, so it is. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: We didn't decide that!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But the regulation!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Because you said that was strictly controlled, and he wasn't at work for 20 years!]] Yes, the service authority, which is now to control again. You just put a new dress under an old hat. Not only is there an indirect increase in political salaries on fees and paid time for arrival, but the applicants also lose no word about unfair treatment or far too short pension expectations. It has already been said today: In the private sector this is so common! I come from the private sector and have to say: Nowhere is there any settlement arrangements similar to those for government members or national councillors. I don't know anyone in the private sector who, after three years of service, gets three months of pay as compensation. In the private sector, a person who has been in the same business for ten years receives a three-month salary, but not after three years. So the claim that these arrangements are similar to those in the private sector is really an untruth and should only be sand in the eyes of the population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At arrival time: I believe that the arrival time is very likely to be included in the salary of a Member. No commercial representative and no manager will be paid a magazine or the time he needs in order to be able to participate in negotiations. That's ridiculous. Suddenly, one wants to introduce such a thing, secretly, silently and quietly, so that no one will know. The media have probably not missed out on this point. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Why "secret, quiet and quiet"?]] All of these are reasons for my wish that this debate should be broadcast on television, because it would have been found that this reference reform is in fact none. Even if the opinion of the Federal Chancellor had also been transmitted, the population would have been clear: If the executioners already sit on the government bank and even have the word "social" in their party name, it is no wonder that the reference reform looks the way it now looks. The socially in need of fellow citizens can only dream of such discharges and pensions or win in the lotto.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11689	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11710	High house! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Federal Chancellor has given an answer to our urgent question, which has shocked me a little; he is shocked because he has used the word "unserious". I can only give him the following: The answer to our urgent question was unscrupulous! He must also let me say that – a pity that he is not here now. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] He also said that we liberals are not truth fanatics. I have to ask him what a truth fanatic he is, because, among other things, he has tailored the load package to us, as he has promised to make this load package socially balanced, and has also said, among other things, that this load package is work safe. I must therefore ask him: Where's the truth? I think he said the untruth! He also said the untruth with regard to the pension scheme. He said that pensioners must not be burdened, and yet they have been burdened. Where is the truth, ladies and gentlemen? – There lies the untruth with the Federal Chancellor! Colleague Cap again had a playful performance today. If this is seen by a Member who is now in this Parliament for five months, then he must ask himself why the debate as important as the privilege debate is becoming so ridiculous, as Mr Cap has done. Where does the parliamentary credibility of a Member remain if he puts the fact that there are still privileges in here today, which have double incomes, unemployed incomes and various other things, in a ridiculous way? For me, what Mr Cap has done is not ridiculous, but he should be ashamed of the fact that he delivers such an appearance and gives such a speech. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then perhaps in his ridiculous manner to say that he only needs to look closely in his own ranks, that 36 of the 71 representatives of Social Democracy are affected, is really strong. 36 Members have practical privileges. He should speak clear words in his own group and not be as ridiculous as he has done today. He then had the courage to go out here and say that the membership survey in the Austrian Chambers was a very great success. He doesn't need to boast, that wasn't a success! [[Abg. Seidinger: After what else?]] Because, among other things, what happened? It has not been questioned whether one wants the chambers or not, the question should have been raised correctly – there should have been the courage to ask people to do so – whether they want to have compulsory membership. But we did not have the courage to answer this question. We liberals, however, would have wanted to answer this question. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Federal Chancellor has said today, among other things, that the reference law is correct from his side. We liberals say that it is a piece of work because it does not include the removal of the discharge because there is no pension scheme. I have had the opportunity today to listen to Klubobmann Dr. Kostelka, among others. If the clubman of the Social Democrats here simply says that we liberals should be ashamed of us, I have to ask: Don't you have a feeling? You have got 40 000 s every month, you must be ashamed, Mr. Klubobmann, not us liberals! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As a normal worker in working life, I am committed to saying that a Member of Parliament, like Dr. Kastelka, when he comes to a farm, is certainly no longer kindly received by the workers there. – A jobless income and then go here and say we should be ashamed! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] I also have an inappropriate saying here that he has spoken. ==References====External links== In June 1996, you, Dr. Kastelka, said the following: [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Co-! Kostelka!]] As far as I'm concerned, I've never explained that I want to work. – That’s a very good statement! But 40,000 S have She collects every month – unemployed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that these are arguments by which I can document, among other things, in the field of workers, workers and employees, that social democracy has long been gone where it should represent the workers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The same thing happened to me today in Klubobmann's speech, Dr. Khol, who, of course, also has something to defend, that is quite clear. He has to defend 25 of the 53 members of the ÖVP who come into this situation of having privileges which, of course, cannot be needed as a political-thinking person. He has listed how many officials there are, how many are working in the chambers and in the functional areas. There are some examples that I will bring in my speech, where Klubobmann Dr. Khol points out that the ÖVP can already turn this off. He could have quietly demanded a refund from his own friends. I can only quote from the "Tyrol daily", which is very interesting to me, Mr Khol is also a Tyrolean Member. Mr. Landeshauptmann Weingartner said to Dr. Höchtl: I would have consequences in his place. . I will now ask the clubman if he should not also tell his friends that the consequences are now to be met if someone has been in employment for so many years. That is why my first request is an immediate repayment of this unemployed income. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I've already been at this point, namely, on 27 July. February, points out: The people have a right to demand that our country's politicians be a model. We should be like this to them, too. I can certainly welcome, among other things, the request that this refer ence law be reversed and renegotiated in order to achieve a fair settlement and a good solution, which can also be sold outside. That is, I think, our task. Those politicians who go among the people know exactly that they already have a bad reputation everywhere, even though they explain to the population that they are obtaining discharges et cetera or have the same depreciation possibilities as the entrepreneurs and other benefits in different areas. These benefits are privileges which we must abolish, but unfortunately nothing has happened in this area. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I myself believe that every politician should exercise his or her profession in addition to his or her mandate, and in this respect it is absolutely crucial for me to have clear conditions in the exercise of this profession. It is possible to measure each profession in percentage terms according to the proportion of employment. An example of me: I have, among other things, reached an agreement in my private business, which turns out to be a clear and good solution. It is true that I am in production for at least 60 hours a month, so the plant has a calculation basis. If I am longer or more often in the company, I get the adequate payment, so I am paid exactly my performance accordingly. And this performance is verifiable, it is not that I sit on any desk and do an activity there – whether it is a mandate or not – which is not controllable. It's controllable with me. If that's 30 percent of the monthly subscription, then it's a fair wage, I bring 40 percent, I get 40 percent of the subscription because I have the corresponding attendance hours and my performance is corresponding. [[Abg. Seisinger: How much does the colleague Bauer get?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How much does the colleague Partik-Pablé get?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! You always talk about colleague Bauer, in doing so you have 25 people who enjoy this privilege to obtain unemployed income. And you're always talking about us liberals! I can list you a few other officials. Shall I list you a few more officials who are here now? Member of Parliament Dr. Niederwieser, for example. He's a nice guy personally, he's a school speaker of the Social Democrats, but as far as his work is concerned in the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers, where he works in the Education Department, I'm not so excited anymore. He's got 25 percent less reference there. But do you know what? – I have to tell you: He receives 25 percent less of the overtime allowance he receives at 20 percent. Now I have to ask as normal-thinking workers and people: Is that a just solution? [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He's there every day! Have you ever tried to reach him there?]] He's there every day? – Unfortunately, he has not had 140 hours in the past two months, because it has been introduced by a stech clock – only as proof of this. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] So there has been a stech clock there since the latest – thank God there are these, because now also MP Niederwieser has to live a bit after the time. Nevertheless, he still has the opportunity to do parliamentary work during his office, because this is not controllable, where he is himself head of department! – That’s the decisive thing! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Where do you want to know?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Mrs Colleague, you don't have to be so upset, I have already said it: On this side are as many privilege riders as on that side. [[The speaker points towards ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I myself am not a privileged knight, I have no problem with that! [[Abg. Steibl: I don't have a problem either!]] I just need to tell you what privileges You're still defending here! Instead of having the courage to decide what we call for, you are still against it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I still have such a nice example – a few examples I already have, they do not go out: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Overtime fee!]] Obmann of the Tiroler Landeskrankenkasse – what do you say about this? Member of the Board of Directors in the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers and Trade Union Secretary, that's all right, because that's his job. Only he is paid less as a trade union secretary, although he is not there half of his working time. And that's wrong! He should receive half of his union secretary's salary, because he does not do the full job! That would be all right. But that's how he's got three incomes. They're just friends of the ÖAAB. [[Abg. Steibl: I think this is totally common! Look at your own rows!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You don't give up anything, to the difference from us!]] Mr Höchtl is still there. But he can continue to give his colleagues and friends of one – I have already said so –: As President Dinkhauser says, he defends the workers: You don't need privileges. But there are some here who do not. That is why I have to say that in this House. To the politicians' pensions: Why can't you regulate the political pensions at today's meeting in such a way that – even if you don't get an official's pension – you add that to the ASVG insurance contributions. I have to finance – as I earn less – my ASVG-pension insurance contributions myself, just because I have officials-pension insurance deductions that I will never get back. That is why I wonder if it would be wrong to pass such laws today. No one's got the courage in this house. You just don't live up to the ideas of the liberals, and I don't think that's all right. I therefore appeal to all Members that we should really go ahead with a good example – in particular, the officials among the Members should go ahead with a good example. We also have the moral duty to say goodbye to the privileges, and I believe that the term "people's representatives" must be used again. In this sense, I wish there were good, honest representatives of the people again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11953	The next speaker is Mr Mentil. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e11974	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has already taken us away – once again we went to court very hard: He has strapped the terms "truth", "seriosity", "honestness", and he has recognized and agreed to all of this. I can tell you for my person – perhaps you can do this to the Federal Chancellor or he can read it in the minutes –: Since considering his statements on the occasion of the elections and the EU elections, it has been difficult for me not to doubt his credibility and truthfulness, but it is his good right not to live it, but to gurutize it with others. During Mr Cap's speech today, I thought it would be time for him to replace Mr Muliar. He would be a worthy successor of him. But you know, ladies and gentlemen: In a situation where there is a very high unemployment rate, in a situation where, for budgetary reasons, disabled people are reduced their pocket money by half – from 1 100 S to 550 S – and at a time when there is a company crash after another – this year the number of pleas is already higher than last year – I do not think I am laughing at such a time. If it is for you from the left half of the empire, if it is to you social democrats after theatre, desired and meant to laugh, then just laugh! I find your procedure embarrassing and sad, and I must tell you that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can only say to the puss you have presented here and which you want to decide here today: Read the "Kurier" of tomorrow! Mr Löschnak, whom I think is a very serious man, has correctly noted that the new law on references does not deserve the title "reform" and that the problems are not solved. I am pleased that, thank God, there are still Members in your ranks who are addressing things the way a responsible parliamentarian should do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Purtscher told you about the media that he would not be unhappy if the necessary majority did not come about today. Gentlemen of the ÖVP! You should think about it. Mr Purtscher is still a competent politician in your ranks. There are very few true personalities in your ranks; Mr Purtscher I am still counting on that. He'll know why he's asking you to think about if You can really agree. For example, if you look at the composition of the Parliamentary Club of Socialists, you can find that 36 parliamentarians are employed in the public service by 71 parliamentarians. If you continue to pursue this mismanagement and explore the entire protected area, you will see that 75 percent of your Members come from the protected area. You probably now know why this is why you do not have private workers or employees in your ranks or why they are not as present as it should be because of your strength. They know why the farmer, the retailer, the industrialist almost does not have the opportunity to work in the National Council: Only because of this misdevelopment you have initiated, which has been prolonged for 20 years, which you promote as the way for the future! Do you just want to sit down? If you just want more public servants, do you just want more people from protected areas in your ranks? Do not at all remember that a worker, an employee, a freelancer, an entrepreneur has the same right to exercise in Parliament the interests of citizens. Did you get any sense of that completely? That's unlikely! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If Mr Ederer, who, as I think, has a somewhat disturbed relationship with the business sector, repeatedly announces that the economic solutions which are constantly being sought are correct and decent, and if she even goes far, that she is making the opposition the accusation that you are 20 years in arrears from the government and have not changed the laws, I must say: I don't understand the world anymore! You are on the move, you are the coalition government, you have to decide the laws, you have to find the solutions and make sure that we come to reasonable laws, reasonable solutions and correct compensation! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Don't cry like that!]] There is only one politician in this House who can claim – and can prove it – that he has renounced about 1.6 million schilling. There's only one, and that's Dr. Haider. You have to take note of that! Whether it suits you or not, that's totally uninteresting, it's so. That is the decisive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With you, the situation looks completely different: That's where the gentlemen say they don't think about working, or they don't want to work at all. Mr. Kostelka's statement on the "Consistency" mission of the 23rd century. June must be broken on the tongue: Unlike others, I never explained my desire to work. – Mr Klubobmann! To make such a statement on this mission is terrible! What do the young people think when they hear that, as you have explained, you want 190 000 s a month, but actually don't want to do anything for it? I do not believe that such statements will increase the credibility of politicians. Mr Kostelka! I have a problem with you at all: Today, they have once again taken part in the Marxist argumentation box, in a form that was already embarrassing. As a 30-year-old entrepreneur, I say to you: I consider the 5.1 million schilling to be far more interesting than the Dr. Haider's forest and his vision of 4 million Schilling Pension. Because if you own a forest, then you need to work it out so you earn something. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] 5.1 million schilling, on the other hand, Mr Kostelka, is only necessary to put on the bank in order to have a good outcome. But that's your centralist, state capitalist thinking! That's how it looks, that's how it works! [[Abg. Leikam: Once again! Gemma!]] Mr Kostelka! You're having trouble calculating. They have calculated our example of calculation, calculated our proposal, but one thing was unfair: They used April to calculate, and there was the budget debate. That's why you came up with the horning references, Mr. Comrade Kostelka! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: 187,000!]] You should really start by not just talking Marxist phrases, but making real proposals, good, reasonable proposals from which you can make something. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're a real marketist!]] I am convinced that, in order to be credible with the citizens of this country, it is high time that you tried, Mr Kostelka – Mr Khol, it is also called upon to do so; it is very important for him to turn to it, because if he lets you act alone, Mr Kostelka, it will probably become very difficult – to pass laws that can be carried and accepted by the citizens. Only in this way can you give politicians a credible and honest image. It's high time for that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Furthermore, Mr Comrade Kostelka, I would like to tell you the following – a pity that Mr Christ Democrat Khol is not here –: [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: He's not your comrade!]] You should not overestimate the material in life! You have to remember, Mr Cot: A dead shirt has no pockets! You can't take anything, even if you're still cashing so much! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Violent calls at the SPÖ.]] Even if they cash without working, even if you still clear off so much, you will resign once, and then it won't matter if you have had two, three or ten references. I only wish myself one thing: Rethinking You're trying to make this salad today! Think about it, don't give it the consent, and work on a reasonable, misplaced solution! Send a broken, reasonable design!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12140	Member of the DDr. The President of the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(3) of the EC Treaty. – Deputies! Please start with the presentation of the facts you want to correct. – Three minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12164	Mr President. High house! Parliamentary Blünegger claimed that I had a 25% reduction in salary, with the basis for calculating the salary plus overtime pay, and I had spent 140 hours in the last two months. This claim is incorrect! I have a scheme which provides for 70 percent of the calculation method mentioned by Mr Blünegger: I worked 66 percent of them in May after the Stechuhr – including – and in June 73 hours. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Including overtime fee?]] That's exactly 70 percent on average. In total, I missed not 140 hours, but 100 hours. That's exactly 70 percent for which I have an agreement. What he did not say, although he was on the board of directors and had to know this, is that in addition to my agreement there is a provision which says that, if I receive a pension claim from the public office, an equivalent pension entitlement is missing from the Chamber of Labour. – That would have been the complete truth!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12206	Mrs Aumayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12227	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mr Sauer's speech has moved me to go to the speaker's desk; unfortunately, he is not here now. This speech by Mr Sauer, who is also Bauer, will be sent to all our farmers' officials, because the record of this speech is really worth the fact that it is being duplicated and that it comes exactly where those people are sitting and working who should represent you here. There are many farmers in the ÖVP: Mrs Horngacher, Mr Schwarzenberger, Mr Sauer, Mr Donabauer, Mr Kaiser, Mr Schwarzböck. But Mr Sauer, where do you take the courage to put yourself here to the speaker's desk and say: I, National Councillor Sauer, have the following "privileg": Before I went to this Parliament today, I had to go to the stable... All right, let's go. [[Call: May! May]] Mr Sauer! Two hours ago, a farmer called me – a woman who belongs exactly to this professional group you have to represent here – and now I'm telling you the "privilegies" of this farmer: 51 years old, 30 hectares of livestock, severe backbone diseases with already beginning paralysis in both legs. This woman was looking for early retirement. Do you know what the social security institution of the farmers said to this woman? There is no occupational protection for farmers, there is no sickness benefit for farmers, and she is far too early for the pension, she can continue to do easy work. – This woman must now seek an acquisition on the free labour market. These are the "privilegies" that you send with your policy to the farmers. That's really a shame! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Sauer. It cannot be that you have absolutely no feeling for the farmers in this country. There's no such thing as that! You make yourself up and talk about "privileg" because you have to go to the stable. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: Such an arrogance is unheard of!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The provisions on the single farmer's pension have been amended retroactively. Mr Sauer, you promised the farmers three years ago that if they pay for their own pension, they will receive the minimum pension after 120 months. Mr Sauer. Do you know what happened to the pension for farmers? – You have increased your reputation to 180 months. That is, the farmers must now be up to their 60, 65. Lifetime work. And you, as a national councilman, who after ten years of parliamentary activity in this House will buy a pension and go home with a discharge, are wailing down here that you must go into the stable! You have no idea! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You have completely lost the feeling for the people you have to represent! They're the greatest privilege rider ever to be. You probably also sit somewhere in the Raiffeisen area and still have a supervisory activity... [[Abg. Steibl: To say that to the sower is a naughtiness!]] Of course! There they sit together, the privileged riders. What's going on in the Raiffeisen area? – 30 million schilling finish for a Mr. Wittmann! And then you take a new man, for example Dr. Günter Böhm, 45 years old. This is by chance the brother - in - law of Dr. Ferdinand Maier, formerly Secretary General of the ÖVP. This brings his brother-in-law to the RWA, the brother-in-law takes the old contract from the Raiffeisen Warenzentrum, and would he now cancel, Mr Sauer, he would not be 30 million schillings like Mr Wittmann, but 60 million schillings! 60 million! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How much?]] But the farmers are liable, Mr Sauer, Mrs Horngacher, Mr Schwarzenberger, in the warehouse area with their shares, unsecured, not guaranteed, and if they cancel them, they will only receive payment in five years. That's your policy! And you're going down here, and you're just kidding us that you, as a "poor" MP, still have to go into the stable. I'll tell you: Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12323	The next speaker is Mr Wenitsch. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12344	Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Willi Sauer, you moved me to come to the speaker's desk again. Your hearty speech down here, how poor the politicians here in Parliament are, has prompted me to visit this speaker's desk again today. Mr Sauer. You're sorry, you've only got a paid job. But you're in the second job, Bauer, and you're Obmann of the Flecktier Breeder Association. Maybe you're still sitting with Raiffeisen somewhere, but I can't say that exactly, I'm not informed about that, but it's possible. I would be pleased if you would reveal all this once, as the liberals demand, that the references of Members be published in a newspaper. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Sauer! This wouldn't have bothered me yet, but you're making such a speech here in a week when the farmers are most heavily burdened by the ÖVP: There are new AMA rules. Pension contributions have been increased again, the third time this year. This month it is again around 1 300 s more for my operation with 48 hectares. In total, they have been increased by almost 4,000 s, in the quarter of the year! That's 16,000 s a year. On the other hand, you take away everything from the farmer: They are cut short of the stability of the fruit succession, they are reduced by the promotion of the element and so on and so on. Mr Sauer! It would have been a matter of representing you down here, but you only covered your colleagues, of whom I can tell you a few things. What is Mr Donabauer, for example, all that has already greatly increased contributions to farmers? – He is the chairman of the Social Insurance Institute, he is mayor, he is the Board of Directors of the Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederösterreich/Vienna, and he is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Main Association of Social Insurance. Mr Sauer! You can't defend that! You can't do that to your farmers! That's a shame! That's what I'm telling you quite openly and honestly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or take my colleague Rudolf Schwarzböckher. Rudolf Schwarzböck is president of the NÖ Landes-Agriculture Chamber: According to "profile" 90 000 S per month plus chauffeur, plus van. – These are privileges, my reigns, we must intervene once! In addition, he is also a member of the National Council and president of the Presidential Conference of the Chamber of Agriculture. My reigns! It can't go on like this! He's playing Bauer at home. – Maybe he still does it himself, I doubt it, but if he does, then he certainly only plays it more. These things have been picked up! Or your President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Maderthaner. What's Mr. Maderthaner all? – He was a member of the National Council for a period of time, now he is no longer. He is President of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Listen! – He is the second Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Insurance Institute of the Austrian Federal States Insurance AG, Supervisory Board of the IWG-Holding, Supervisory Board of the Austrian Economic Publisher Printing and Publishing Board, Supervisory Board of the Vienna trade fair Congress GesmbH, Supervisory Board of the Hungarian printing company GesmbH. Yeah, Willi Sauer, do you really want to defend this? That can't be true! Six supervisory posts please, and then President! These privileges and this proportion belong abolished in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If the President of the Federal Government says that he has left his chamber or whatever. In all honours, I am glad for you, but nevertheless Mr Schwarzenberger: You're a National Councilman, you're a farmer. Do you really need a Supervisory Board post at Salzburger Landesversicherungs AG? Is that necessary? You really don't need to do that. It's like everyone doesn't have an office, but if you look closely, you get a lot of stuff on it. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Raiffeisen is not controllable, but you really have to look into what is happening there. If we could feel that, I think a bomb would go up! Or do we take the Jacob? Auerher: He is Mayor, National Council member and Executive Board representative of the Raiffeisenbank Oberösterreich. My reigns! These are the privileges that have been abolished. Willi Sauer! Sit for the peasants, not for the privileged riders here in Parliament! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] That's right, Mr Donabauer! You don't have to get upset! You told me two months ago that the contributions for the farmers will not be increased. In reality, they have already been increased three times this year. You have to look at that! That's where you can laugh?- Oh, my God! In yesterday's "Kurier" there was an interesting report: In France, a regional politician has been sentenced to a fine of 42 000 s because he has promised 300 jobs and has not complied with this promise. Ladies and gentlemen! I still have the saying of Vranckky very much in my ears: We will create 30 000 jobs by joining the EU. My reigns! If Vranitzky were to live in France, he would have to sheet 4.2 million schilling for this statement alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12465	Mr Schwarzböck referred to an actual correction. Please start the correction with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12489	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Although a procedure is under way for claims by liberal officials in the same division as Mr Wenitsch here, such claims have been put forward again today. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Claim and counterclaim!]] So I put it right: In addition to my Members' salary, I am referring to a single political compensation: the President's compensation for the Lower Austrian Chamber of Agriculture, fixed by the Lower Austrian Parliament. As President of the President's Conference, I have no effort to compensate for it because I have left it alone. According to the legal basis, the amount of compensation for the Lower Austrian President is approximately 75 000 S. Since in recent years I have waived increases in parallel to the practices of political compensation, it is currently at around 63 000 S gross.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12525	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. I ask you to take the seats. We shall vote on two motions for resolutions. I ask the Kluban people to leave the Members' ranks. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haider and others on the reduction of political privileges. Whoever is in favour of this motion for a resolution may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler and comrades on political privilege. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12586	I shall now resume the negotiations on item 1 of the agenda on Relating Reform Law. Mr Amon has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12616	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, difficult to find, after the polemics, which have been brought here and above all after the untruths that have been brought here, again in a matter of debate. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to point out that a great deal has actually been said about the original request made by the coalition parties, in particular by criticism from the liberals during the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You fell down!]] I will deal with it in a moment, my colleague. And this original draft has actually given the impression that we are getting a replacement for what is now being lost, namely the unemployed income, on the other hand, over the back door. And this impression has now been removed by the amendment. That is why, I believe, this draft can be approved. The amendments contained in this new application are quite comprehensive. On the one hand, members of the Presidents have refused to claim an increase in their remuneration. Secondly, there has de facto been a halving of the entire Spesenretzung versus the original draft. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Third, the cost of travel will now be based on the principle "What's weighing, that's it!" ==References== I think you, as a man of the economy, should be able to understand that it is more sensible to calculate costs according to the level in which they actually arise. I believe that, in the light of the present draft, even if there are still a number of things to be discussed, the criticism that there can and will be increases of references is not to be maintained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to say something to the Social Fund, because here the liberals are going out and proclaiming great how great they are socially weak, groups that are in need, help. I have to tell you honestly: I think it is embarrassing that it is necessary to get out of here and present a list of things that you have done well. [[Abg. Scheibner: You asked!]] Mr Scheibner, I would like to say the following: There are countless Members here in the house, who make transfers to fellow citizens in need every month, who make transfers to organisations worthy of support – without running around with a Taferl and showing what they do well all over the world. – Only you need that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It would be interesting, however, if you were already talking great about disclosure in this context, to see what was paid in the sum of these funds and what was actually used for those in need. Because that's just a real disclosure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Open or not to reveal?]] I'll tell you: If you are already making your social fund public, it would of course be interesting to know what will be paid in total in these funds and what has actually been used for good things from this fund. You have presented that you have provided support in the order of about 1 million schillings. This corresponds to about half the annual income only one person in your ranks. I believe that this is a very dizzy matter. [[Abg. Böhacker: Lower drawer is what you say!]] In the course of the debate on the income pyramid in the autumn, there will be different views about the regulation of Members' contributions. You can, of course, judge Members like freelancers. One can theoretically judge parliamentarians as officials, one can also judge them as employees. This is certainly a question that can and should be discussed widely. This is also ensured by the motion for a resolution that will be tabled, because there will also be no system discussion in the context of the debate on income pyramids. If, however, the liberals believe that 50 per cent of the parliamentarians in this House can go without saying that this costs only half of the time, then it would probably be the cheapest – that is perhaps their goal – not to have any Members at all, because this would save the cost of parliamentaryism at all. No doubt it can't be! Democracy costs something, and, I believe, one has to confess. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The motion for a resolution on the income pyramid to be put forward by the end of the year also provides for a cover-up on multi-income incomes from the public sector; and I believe that this is quite a clean solution. Because I'd like to say one thing: Of course, one can take the view that, in addition to the profession, only a paid political function should be exercised. On the other hand, I believe that it is necessary, for example, to have mayors and representatives of the social partners in the House, because these essential things have to be introduced. If this happens in connection with an income cover, with an income limit, it is quite reasonable and acceptable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I tabled two amendments. First of all, Mr Kostelka and Dr. Khol are a citation amendment concerning the legislative proposal in the report of the Constitutional Committee (249 of the Supplements). [[Quoted print version removed]] The second amendment is in the direction of extending the present resolution on the income pyramid. [[Quoted print version removed]] All political groups are invited to participate in it in a constructive manner. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12774	The amendment to the motion for a resolution on income pyramid which has just been tabled by Mr Amon is sufficiently supported and is therefore included in the negotiations. The same applies to the amendment to the present draft law. Mr Magistrate has now been reported to speak. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12797	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon, whose mediaeval premise of a few days ago I have explicitly admired, has proved here today only that he has been caught in a hurry and has not seen which political area of action has been left out by him due to the narrow majority conditions for this request. I can only say one thing: That's a shame! It is therefore a pity, Werner, because today it will depend essentially on one, two people, whether one can create a really well-founded arrangement or whether de facto is again prolonged the real problem. That's exactly what happens. A resolution which promises an income pyramid, which has really been announced for a very long time, for autumn, and a novel that will not end this debate on the summer, as positive and as presumptuous as the abolition of unemployment income, will not lead to an increase in the credibility of such activities. Again, ladies and gentlemen: It is basically two people today – two people in concrete terms, if you look at the majority conditions – who are not allowed to take part in the vote in order to achieve a truly sound solution to this problem. I am surprised that in a discussion which is basically so close to us all, there is no willingness among the Members to accept this responsibility. It was Mr Khol who said that we had to find a solution and a payment based on responsibility and performance. But when it comes to responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a matter of real responsibility. But the whole of today's debate has, in fact, not led to the fact that the request for a decision to be taken today would have been lightened in some way with regard to its effect, but quite the contrary: One is a forward-looking discussion, which refers to the respective level, and the other can be combined with the word "politics" – whatever happens in the media. It's modern. But the basic problem will not be addressed! Ladies and gentlemen! The regulation is not transparent, it is not fair and it will not end this discussion, even in the light of what Mr Kostelka has said. If you look at the comments and if you take note of the discussions that have been held – including by each of you – in the last few days, you will be able to see: It is not the immediate amount of the reference that people bring to the palm tree, but it is the fact of unemployment income and the multiple payments that are being made out of various activities – and this also includes the references from the Chambers; it would be wrong to say that this is not a politically highly sensitive area in Austria – which is annoyed by people. I am surprised that the Members of the Governments of the European Union have made this discussion and this criticism so easy, where, in fact, every interlocutory debate in this House must also be a debate on party financing and club financing. Because you all, ladies and gentlemen, can ultimately criticise an income from which you don't see cash on your hand a good part at all. The Federal Accounting Office takes part of your references from the outset, and that goes to the party, that goes to the club. That's something that's wrong! That is something that is not transparent, and that is something that, Mr Kostelka, could be abolished with such a novel! But it's not being done. There is no openness, there is no fairness, and you, ladies and gentlemen, obviously do not have the political courage or will to offer and say to your own parties as Paroli institutions: We do not want to have to hold back any longer for hidden party financing! We want a clear regulation, we want to get a corresponding reference for our work here! What parties or clubs need, they should get themselves over party funding or club financing, but not hidden over parliamentary incomes! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today, it has also been mentioned the exemption of officials when they apply for a mandate. In this context, the exemption of officials is less a privilege of officials themselves than rather a possibility for parties to resort to workers in elections. It is also known to you – no one will dispute this – that, of course, officials appear very often in the rear, non-electable places of the lists, only so that they do not have to perform any service during the election period and one has the opportunity to use their labour force immediately. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is essentially related to the references for which you are ultimately criticized – and rightly so, because you do not have the opportunity to object to it today! Mein Ladies and gentlemen, lastly in this context: Let us also say here from the speaker's mouth that the mandates of parties are still regarded as loans. Or is it not the case that in your case - I am referring to ÖVP, SPÖ, FPÖ - Members must ultimately contribute very high amounts of money from their reference during the election campaign, just to achieve that in the district, in the country, they have a corresponding importance? – Again: hidden party financing! That's not necessary! It would be important today, ladies and gentlemen, to take up all these points, not to achieve a change in the level of their relationship for each individual Member, but to make it clear that there is no longer any hidden party funding on the salaries of Members. I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that this amendment ultimately sets out a political picture by establishing here in Parliament a Commission which has to decide which Members are actually on the way in the course of discussions in the country and which are not. That can't be useful! It cannot be useful, however, for the Federal legislator to determine national leaders, representatives of the local government, and to say: Now we will decide whether or not the ladies and gentlemen are actually engaged in a political activity. That's not a good solution, you know! The only opportunity to regulate this properly and properly for everyone without loss of vision would be to refer it back to committee and to discuss it again. There is no reason at all, a system that will be adopted in September, not with 1. To put into effect August. In the context of the Structural Adjustment Act on the savings package, there are also retroactive rules. So why Take You don't have the time to handle this properly, and then you put it retroactively with 1. August in force, if it's your concern that it might be called, You want to serve for a while? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It is also important to me, ladies and gentlemen, to make it clear that the determination of the actual performance of officials at their workplace will not take place, simply because it is not possible. You know as well as I do: You can still mount so many clocks in front of a door, but who tells you that those who enter do not do their parliamentary post inside instead of doing their actual work? Why, ladies and gentlemen, should it be so that someone who is waiting for a notice in an administrative procedure only needs to wait longer because this administrative procedure involves someone who exercises a parliamentary mandate, perhaps only to 25 percent of his employment as an official, but by his hand, so to speak, in spite of all this, the procedures are running? The result will be the corresponding delays. They will not find a way to carry out a real measurement of performance, because presence at the workplace does not at all mean that something really comes out. Ladies and gentlemen! The administration in Austria is not unpolitical. I can well imagine that, depending on the department and the representatives of this department and the political close-up of the respective Member, the regulations will look different. All this, ladies and gentlemen, only leads us to have a discussion about it very soon, and then it will be called: Wait a minute! Now they have changed it before the summer, after the summer they change it again – that will probably not be an honest solution again. Such small steps as the 34. Novelle to the referee law, where Member Amon, who today had the opportunity to do what he had announced a few days ago, already announces that the 35. Novelle will come in autumn, and actually opens the door to it, is not a way to really address this problem. You will not be able to explain to anyone, ladies and gentlemen, why a replacement of the office costs for Members should be made if, for example, this has been deleted for trade representatives a few months ago. You can't argue a travel time adjustment if it doesn't come into question for commuters at all. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is not over as long as it is not openly and honestly put on the table here and announced that it will be done in the next novel. Our request offers the opportunity to carry out such a solution in the autumn final and definitive. The abolition of unemployment income is not in the way, even today, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask you to agree to our referral request so that we can really come to a good solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12904	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12925	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I looked at the report of the Constitutional Committee on Reference Reform very briefly at the weekend. I have also noticed some serious points which cannot be so absolute. But I just want to limit myself to a few. One point is the cost of travel. This draft says, as Mr Amon said: What it weighs, it has to be settled! Of course, everyone should also be paid the travel costs he has. The question is: who? . I believe that, given the current economic situation and the savings package that we have had for years, it is not acceptable for us to charge these travel costs to citizens now, too, by reimbursing our travel costs via state money. That cannot be the solution to this question. I figured out what it would cost the federal government in the year if everyone paid their miles of money, and I assumed that on average every Member in the year is about 50 000 kilometres on the way for his professional activity. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's a lot!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Did you think that when you deal with 50,000 kilometres per parliament and with a kilometre replacement of 4,60 s per kilometre, that would cost the state budget 42 million schilling? – On the other hand, the free ticket of the Federal Railways, which is currently issued to the MEPs, costs only 6.6 million Schilling. That is, with the planned settlement system of travel costs over kilometres of money, this would mean an increase of 636 percent – 636 percent! – or 42 million schilling. I am the last one who is in favour of every Member of Parliament having to bear his own travel costs, but I believe that it cannot and must not be the solution that these travel costs should be transferred to the citizens, but it must be the solution that travel costs, which move over those of the free ticket, will be borne by the clubs, from the club budget and not from the State budget. That would be a fair solution, and that would be a solution that is also acceptable to the people! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Where does the club budget come from, colleague?]] Each club can then agree with its Member whether this journey is justified or not, whether it is considered necessary at all or not. But according to the new model of SPÖ and ÖVP, this brings only further public debt, which we really can no longer afford. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There would be more reasonable models of travel costs than those of Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol. Mr Kostelka! Mr. Khol! Have you ever considered what a mixing system might look like, a system by which every Member can retain his license and, at the same time, claim 20 000 s a year as other travel costs in the form of kilometres of money? Or have you considered a model for those people who can't drive by car, but can't drive by train, because the train connection doesn't allow half a reasonable journey time? There would also be a possibility: You could pay off the equivalent of the free ticket to those Members who do not have the right to travel. Only the difference of 20 000 s would be tax deductible again. All else in addition to driving costs, the clubs should pay out of their club budgets, which is the case with the respective clubs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In my club I can't go somewhere and say: Please, pay my employees' travel costs! I have a budget. My budget is my club budget, and from that I have to pay the travel costs for the employees of my club. In fact, we MEPs have the same position. We are representatives of the individual clubs, and the individual clubs have their budgets. The aim of these budgets is to ensure funding – but not from resources available to the population. This is absolutely unwarranted, because it would put additional burdens on the population, in addition to the burdens it already has to bear and which it can no longer handle. We cannot agree to your proposal on the reform of the relationship, not only because of what I have said about the cost of travel, but also because of other points contained in your proposal that cause me some stomach pain. For example, it is stated in the principles for the solution, in the case of the acquisition of office costs: Office costs should be taken over to a certain extent. The term "a certain degree" – what does that mean? Is that a measure of my conscience? Who determines this "a certain extent"? That means, everyone can judge it again as he believes, depending on: The better one can negotiate, the more he may get for his office – or not. I think in a law such as the referee law, concepts such as "a certain extent" have absolutely nothing to look for. Everything should be clearly formulated and secured with concrete amounts. The concept of "a certain extent" allows for a range of 1 000 S to 100 000 S, 170 000 S, depending on how the individual wants to judge or judge. This must never be the basis of a law! I'm expecting something else from a reference reform. I expect every Member to receive a decent salary, that every Member should have the opportunity to claim his/her travel costs, his/her fees, on the compensation of wages or income tax compensation, which everyone does anyway, and the remaining amount to be borne by the honourable Member himself should be financed from the clubs, but never by the public authorities. However, this draft is exactly the opposite, and therefore I will not give this draft my approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e12990	Mr Scheibner has now been reported on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13011	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Mr Amon, one of my previous speakers. Mr Amon! It's been a little bit of a transparent game you listed here. First of all, to demand something, namely to criticize the disclosure of our fund, and then to criticise this disclosure, which is already doubly. But we already know that. We have already seen this little game in Burgenland, especially from your group. Mayor Steindl was also a victim. There those who have collected double references have criticized the others who have delivered them to a fund. One even had to go to court to prove that everything had its legality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Amon! You were one of those who criticised this scheme in public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] - Ah, that was earlier. I have actually hoped that you will remain consistent and will also be among those who will make sure that we can find a successful solution in peace – and not this Husch-Puff law, which only contributes to confusion again and to the bad image, which was again complained by all the political groups today. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been a bit of a conspicuous – we are now discussing this proposal for a few hours now – that the representatives of the government groups have heard very little, which is really the substance, the positive part of this reform. From your side, there have only been distractions and attacks against the liberals who now criticized all this. Colleague Kukacka has even "tangled" the People's Advocate Saviour – you can almost say – as an example of how to deal with people with us. That doesn't fit in at all. Mr Kukacka, it is already strange that you feel that if someone becomes a public prosecutor, he will be transferred to some kind of service. I would never allow myself to claim the same from your former Secretary-General, Korosec, because I believe that the public prosecutorship is an important institution, and anyone who can reach this office is to pay the highest consideration. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You can see this attempt of distraction, but you also seem to have a bad conscience. I also agree with those Members who have complained of the bad image of politics, who refer to the expenses and who have also complained here about the hardship of politics. That's right. It is also true that some people are certainly unable to make it right in political terms. They will also be criticised if you don't get anything for this activity at all. But I believe that there is a vast majority of the population who advocates the proper payment of politicians, but who demand transparency, transparency in the interests, so it is understandable what the honourable Member is getting for his work. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you missed a real opportunity with this regulation. I'm just quoting one paragraph, just one paragraph, the travel time balance, and then tell me if the ordinary citizen, when he reads it – and it's always said that the political references are legible in the law – can understand what that means in practice. That's what it says: "The compensation shall be equal to the sum allocated by 173.2 of the salary of an official of the general administration of grade 5 of the service class VII and the administrative service allowance provided for in that provision in the time zone 1 and shall be increased by the same amount for each additional time zone. The resulting amount shall be multiplied by the number of journeys, at which, on average, one calendar year per month, plenary, committee or club meetings take place, and shall be taken into account on a monthly basis. The number of trips to plenary, committee, club or other political groups to be calculated on average in one calendar year per month shall be determined by the President of the National Council, after consulting the President of the Federal Council, after consulting the members of the President of the Federal Council." Ladies and gentlemen! That is the clarity you create with this regulation! I believe that only this section shows that you have done a very bad job in the face of the policy you have advocated here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also recall the words of Klubobmann Khol, who spoke here a few weeks or months ago – I think it was in the context of a deadline debate on the reform of the references – and said that there were positive initiatives and proposals from all political groups. He also expressly praised our request and said that it was the most plausible proposal, and he also meant that everyone should try together to implement such a reform, yes, he even promised. Mr Khol, what has become of this your promise that we will all implement this reference reform here in Parliament? – Nothing has become out of it, ladies and gentlemen! This free request – you have apparently not read it exactly yet – would be a way to remedy it by introducing a performance-related salary. Then, too, this whole criticism of who, as long as often, is in which committees, how many meetings attends, who speaks and so on, would be very soon in the past. But you see, you're not willing to do that in a proper discussion. Ladies and gentlemen! We would like to give you the opportunity to consider this again, and then, together with us, to reform it. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13142	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. Maximum speaking time: 11 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13166	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The year has not started so badly this year as to the question of the re-regulation of the involvement of politicians. A Secretary of State, named Schlögl, has undertaken in January to deal with this issue in a serious way and to make proposals which should be discussed together with all the political groups here. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there has been a problem, and the problem has a name; I do not want to address it again. Due to the awareness of this problem, the two clubmen, Kostelka and Khol, in a kind of night and fog action have been forced to bring about a legal change here. Ladies and gentlemen! This has already been discussed in detail today. I do not want to say much more about this, but I have to say one thing: The Liberal Group is blatant, for Mr Scheibner has just made a request – the first of the Freedom Party – to disclose the incomes of politicians and wealth relations. This is a premiere, although Mr Haider said in his speech today that this had already been done by the liberals. I got a salary. Mr Haider said that they had already put in a package where disclosure had been required, but I would have liked to see only one request made in recent years. – Unfortunately, no one has been brought in. Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Group made this request in 1987, in 1988, 1989, then at the beginning of this year, and now there is another one. I can remember which people in this House have agreed. The liberals were definitely not there. Mr Haider, you too, Mr Reichhold, and Mr Stadler, I do not think he was at home at that time, 1987. – Yes, of course! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: I open my salary every year! I don't need a decision.]] Maybe the woman, but no one else. Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has never agreed here. The ÖVP has never agreed to this, and the SPÖ has also not agreed, although the SPÖ then signalled that it will agree to this request. The former members of the Freedom Party, who are now with the Liberals, did not agree at the time, then Mr. Freizenschlager, then Mr. Peter and then the Heide Schmidt. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner: They didn't like it back then!]] I know, Mr Hazelsteiner, that you could not agree at the time. I'm sure you would have agreed immediately. [[Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner nodds.]] Bravo! I can only say: High regard! Ladies and gentlemen! I now put to the vote the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Haider! If you really want it, as you have explained for a long time here today, you now have the opportunity to finally accept such a request. Mr Stadler can, of course, do so. They were not in the house at the time when we already made these wonderful requests. Mr Meischberger, I think, has already been here. Unfortunately, he still failed at the time. But it's all a question of development and maturity. If the Meischberger knew... – I know! [[Abg. May. Stadler: There is the government!]] But at least at the time, Mr Stadler, we expected at the time, Mr Stadler, to agree to this disclosure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Reichhold.]] Mr Reichhold! Today – after all, something. The problem of disclosure in 1987 would have been as follows: If at that time – which unfortunately has not happened – this request had gone through, we would already have known in 1987 what Mr Höchtl deserves, and also what everyone else here in the house deserves. And then we would have known relatively soon this year what Mr Brauneder deserves and what others in all the political groups deserve. Then we would have had an open discussion about this and would not have had to have been so ashamed to learn what is happening in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! We will no, I have a new request here, Mr Reichhold. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Are you still working on the 87s application?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We end here for the time being a sad chapter with the... [[Unrest in the hall.]] Nervosity is already at the height, because colleagues Khol and Kostelka do not know whether they achieve the two-thirds majority. This can be a terrible defeat. Now, if I look into the ranks like that, I think it's best, I'll end my speech right away. There are still a few missing out on the ÖVP, so the likelihood of a defeat is very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13296	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wabl is sufficiently supported and will be included in the debate. Mr Dolinschek has spoken. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13320	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The whole debate on the reform of relations and also on the urgent question to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has shown that all colleagues from the Coalition have felt like defending themselves, that they did not know before, that this was always the case, and so on, and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Hazelsteiner.]] Mr Haselsteiner! That's not how it was. For ten years since I have been watching this policy – and I have been here in this House for almost six years now – we have always criticized these privileges. We have repeatedly pointed out that there are differences between the different levels of population, represented by the representatives of the people here in the House. [[Abg. Wabl: No untruths!]] These differences exist now: They are self-employed, farmers and freelancers, self-employed, civil servants, private sector employees, workers from the so-called protected area, chambers, social security institutions, the National Bank and the Austrian Trade Union Confederation. Ladies and gentlemen! Steter drop just hollows the stone. That's what we've done in recent years. Now that a few significant cases have occurred in the course of the savings measures you have been looking at to the population, you need action. Now something has to be created from today to tomorrow, but this is not mature and in principle a hush-fush law. The Members' contributions should somehow be restricted. But what are you doing? – Now there is an increase. There should now be part-time employment for public employees. Ladies and gentlemen! I've had that for six years. For six years I have been working part-time, half-day, and I get paid according to my work – I get 50 percent. I was a worker, that is, a worker, and I was responsible for 54 persons, in one-layer, two-layer and three-layer operations. There have been restructurings which have resulted in me working in the calculation department since then. A public servant who becomes a Member of this House will continue to be employed, receiving 75 percent of his salary. He can do that today. How much he actually works on his desk there is there. Now we're going to introduce a stech clock. This is of course in the private sector, which has never been different there. Then there are workers' representatives in the National Council, just like that. It is natural that no one should be agreed that people from the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the Social Security Division or the Austrian Trade Union Confederation also represent workers' interests here in the High House. But there is a difference between us, Mr Verzellnich and Mr Nürnberger: I have part-time employment and I have 50 percent of the salary I would receive for full-time employment. I have to practically press the clock for every hour I work. Nor do my colleagues want me to make less, because then they have to do more. That's not a question. I can't make that policy there that you can make in your job, for which you get full salary. This is, of course, legally secured. No question. You will admit, however, that the look is something wrong. I appeal here above all to you as President of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation and as an employee representative: If you want to do nails with heads here, you have to make a regulation similar to that applicable to those who are newly admitted to the public service, according to which new recruits are just ASVG insured. MEPs should also be ASVG-insurance, receive a pension, give up the political board, give up the settlement and receive a basic compensation, which is transparent, and a distance allowance. There should be no dubious settlement, but this should be transparent. There could also be a kilometre division in 50-kilometre steps and so on. If you do that, I think, it is a real policy-related reform, which can also be represented externally – but not so.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13364	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen! Please take a seat. I would like to interrupt the session briefly because I would like to check out the Croquis again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13394	Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to take the seats. We are now entering the voting process. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am going to explain the voting process. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 249 of the Supplements. Mr Hiezu has tabled a request for referral back. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stadler and comrades submitted an additional and amending proposal. Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment. First of all, I will refer to the motion for a resolution, then to the honourable Member's motions for resolutions. Mr Stadler and Mr Comrades, on these parts and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request to refer Amendment No 245/A back to the Constitutional Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. This application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 249 of the Supplements. I now turn to the supplementary amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Stadler and comrades concerning Article 2 § 38 vote and seek out those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is no need to vote on the amendment to the point description requested. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Stadler and comrades tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(45) para. 14 to be introduced. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. I now leave on Article 2 § 45 para. 14 as amended by the Committee's report. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the deputies, as well as the name "yes", which are the grey ballots, or "no", which are the pink ones. Only those official votes may be used for the vote. Members are called upon to put the votes in the urns provided. I am looking for those Members who are in favour of Article 2(45 paragraph). 14 as part of the Committee's report, the following shall vote: 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' and 'No'. I now ask Mrs Parfuss, the writer, to start with the name call. Mrs Rosemarie Bauer will then replace her. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13501	The vote will end. I would ask the officials of the House responsible for counting to make the statement under the supervision of the authors. I'm interrupting the meeting for a short time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13535	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 179, of which "Yes" votes: 120, No voices: 59. Article 2(45) para. 14 as part of the Committee's report has therefore been adopted by a majority. According to § 66 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer; Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leiner, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Firlingers, fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haider, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Haupt, Hofmann; Kammerlander, Kier, Koller, Head, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Povysil, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner, Trenk; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13702	We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of this draft law. Since the remaining parts of the present draft law contain constitutional provisions, I first make provisions within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We are now voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in 249 of the Supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades. There has also been a request for a name-named vote by 20 Members. The vote will therefore have to be taken. I would like to point out that those Members who vote in favour of the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted, in the version of the Committee's report and of the amendment tabled by Mr Kostelka and Mr Khol, have to vote with 'Yes', that is, they have to vote 'Yes', while those who oppose this request have to vote with 'No' votes. As in the past, the call for Members is made by the two authors, and I ask Mrs Parfuss to begin with the call.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13756	That concludes the vote. I would ask the staff responsible to carry out the poll under the supervision of the scribes and interrupt the meeting for this period of counting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13787	I will resume the interrupted sitting and ask Members to take their seats. I announce the results of the vote. 179 votes were cast, of which "Yes": 120, No voices: 59. The remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in 249 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by Dr Kostelka, Dr. Khol and Comrades, have therefore been accepted by a majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The voting behaviour of Members in the natural vote shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol. With "Yes", the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Amon, Antoni, Auer, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brader, Brinek, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Donabauer, Dunst; Eder, Ederer, Edler, Ellmauer, Elmecker, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Fischer, Freser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaál, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber; hunters; Kaipel, Kaiser, Kampichler, Karlsson, Kaufmann, Doppelmüller, Khol, Kiermaier, Kiss, Koppler, Kostelka, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leiner, Luke; Maier, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Morak, Moser Sonja, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pittermann, Platter, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Rider, Riepl; Sauer, hermit, schrefel, Schuster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberger, Schwemmlein, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Stampler, Steibl, Steindl, Stippel, Stumpful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wallner, Wicker, Worm, Wormitzer; Zweytick. With 'No', the Members voted: Anchoon, apple beck, aumayr; Barmüller, Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Firlingers, fresheners; Tomb, groldish; Haider, Haidlmayr, Haigermoser, Haller, Haselsteiner, Haupt, Hofmann; Kammerlander, Kier, Koller, Head, Krüger; Lauter, Langthaler; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil, Moser Hans Helmut, Motter; Of a fat content, by weight, by weight Partik-Pablé, Peter, Petrovic, Povysil, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Schaffenrath, Scheibner, Schmidt, Schöggl, Schweitzer, Stadler, Stoisits; Trattner, Trenk; Van der Bellen; Wabl, Wenitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e13962	We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – This is the majority. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We now come to the vote on the resolution on income pyramid for politicians annexed to the Committee's report 249 of the Supplements. Mr Khol, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment here. Since there is only one motion for a resolution, I shall immediately vote on the motion for a resolution in 249 of the additions as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Khol, Mr Kostelka and Mr Comrades. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. This resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 15.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution, annexed to the Committee's report 249 of the Supplements, on the payment of politicians in their profession after actual performance. Whoever is for this, may show this by a sign of consent. . The resolution annexed to the Committee's report has been adopted by a large majority. (E 16.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades on a comprehensive reduction of privileges. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Wabl and Mr Comrades on the disclosure of the incomes, assets and employment of politicians. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 249 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, may reveal this by a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. This report has been adopted by a large majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Madeleine Petrovic and others on the recovery of unlawful references in Case Höchtl. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask for a sign to be given the same. – This is the minority. This application is rejected. We shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning the recovery of unlawfully-related references in the case of fresheners. Whoever is in favour of this request shall make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 29/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Rules of Procedure 1975) (284 of the Supplements) (Second reading) 3rd. Point Report and request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the draft Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (285 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14120	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. This is the first time that we have been able Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 29/A by Mr Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (284 of the Supplements), and the Report and request by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on the draft Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (285 of the Supplements). The rapporteur was Mr Lacner on both points. . I would like to ask the honourable Member for your report and therefore for the opening of the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14148	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate High House! I shall return the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 29/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades on a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975). ==References== In January 1996, Deputies Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Kholund Comrades submitted the above-mentioned request to the National Council. The Committee for the Rules of Procedure has for the first time at its meeting on 26 November. ==References====External links== ==References== In July 1996, the Committee of the Rules of Procedure continued its discussions. In the course of the negotiations, MEPs Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol, Dr. Friedhelm Frißenschlager and Andreas Wablein introduced amendment. The draft law contained in Amendment 29/A was adopted in the vote, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol, Dr. Friedhelm Frißenschlager and Andreas Wablmit. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure therefore proposes that the National Council should give the draft legislation attached to the written committee report constitutional approval. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I shall also report on the draft Constitutional Act, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act. In the course of his deliberations on Amendment 29/A by Dr Peter Kostelka, Dr Andreas Kholund Comrades on a Federal Act amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on 4 April 1975. On July 27, 1996 Dr. Peter Kostelka, Dr. Andreas Khol, Dr. Friedhelm Frißenschlager and Andreas Wablmührer decided to vote in favour of the National Council in accordance with § 27 para. 1 Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft bill annexed to the written committee report. As there are speeches, Mr President, I would ask you to continue in the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14260	Thank you, rapporteur. A block time of 8 "Vienna hours" has been set for this debate, so that the following speaking times occur – in minutes –: SPÖ 120, ÖVP 112, Free 104, Liberal Forum and Greens each 72. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. I'll give it to him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14287	Mr President. High house! Against the background of the just vote and the content of what has been discussed today and has just been voted on, the entire debate on the Rules of Procedure seems to be sub-titolo: less control, less opposition rights, less parliament, but more cash. – Yes, you laugh, Mr Kostelka! They were the ones who came out here 14 days ago on the Rostra to the High House, in particular the amazed opposition party – and if I speak of opposition, I really only mean the opposition, namely the Freedom Party – to be very surprised by all of us: We have so many meetings, so we deserve what we deserve rightfully meant. You probably your Members' salary at the time, and not yet, at least I assume what you have done in addition to being the Council of Parliament without any work. Ladies and gentlemen! More control had been desired by the opposition for years, more transparency, more opposition rights, more minority rights. – None of this, Mr Wabl, Mr. Freisenschlager, has come out! With Friedhelm Freischenschlager I can still see that, which one has with his cost, which he – what was the name of the APA issue? – for the divorce had to be properly applied, so he had to "höchtln" a little bit. We have had this on the press, because otherwise today a punishing SPÖ and an ÖVP would probably have agreed to the request Petrovic and Comrades and asked for the money back. So that's where I see it: He had to pursue private interests when he went "höchtln", and he had to pursue private interests when he agreed to this Rules of Procedure. In full circulation of what you used to announce in the press, Mr. Freisenschlager. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Truly immense!]] In any case, in 1987 – and this was still before his mutation – the Commissioner was of the opinion that time limits in Parliament mean a shift in power, in the direction of government parties, that this is a completely absurd idea. Today, he is one of the defenders of this "completely absurd idea", ladies and gentlemen, that there must be more control rights for the minority. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We have made you as long as the wall!]] At that time, all this was a completely absurd idea. Today, Mr. Freshenschlager is making himself strong as a representative of a nominal opposition, which, in fact, is only the patron of this foundation – nothing but a attachment – I would like to use the comparison of the idiosyncrasy – of the socialists. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And my colleague, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hohes Haus, is also a representative of this green-yellow annex, which was only set up for this purpose to be an attachment to the Socialists. Today, we have experienced that this foundation, whose patron cannot often be called enough – that is, one that has 'happed' for 20 years – is the arbitrary fig leaf for the socialist coalition government. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1992 when she was still the third president of the House, the head of this foundation, which was founded by the blind, was also in a detailed letter of 7 March 1992. In September 1992 the opinion – as our clubman has already quoted today – that the rights of the minority, the rights of the opposition, in particular the rights of speech, should be greatly enhanced. At that time she made extensive proposals to the "love Jörg" that you – and I quote now literally... [[Abg. Schieder: But "Dear Ewald" has never written it!]] No, she's never written that, I think it's good for me. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is good for you.]] That's what I'm putting on. Dear Col. Schieder! I am extremely grateful for this call. I can make it clear: There is no such letter, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Did she write "love Peter"? – "Dear Peter"?]] No, no, no, To the "love Peter" she does not have to write as long as she does not need to write to the "love Heinz"! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This letter is a single proof of the accuracy of oppositional positions in a reform of the Rules of Procedure, an increase in parliamentaryism, an increase in opposition rights, a greater number of control rights. In times when the European Parliament is at least threatened by a competence thinning by accession to the EU – at least, Mr Schieder, who represents your comrades in Vorarlberg at the same time; I can bring you countless speeches, good speeches from my friend Dr. Keckeis, good speeches from the former chairman of the Socialists in Vorarlberg Karl Fühlinger, who, in speaking, asked for what we call for today. What's cheap in Vorarlberg... [[Abg. Arbitrators: The conclusion from the smaller to the larger is often wrong!]] Argumentum a minora ad maius, is right, that is a legal discipline that is still valid, ladies and gentlemen, High House. What your comrades in Vorarlberg call for with spoken and correctly set sentences, this should be cheap for you here, Mr Schieder! Instead, you go here and make a parliament – and not just an opposition, no, a whole Parliament! – with a so-called reform of the Rules of Procedure, which is not worthy of the name of reform, but which is a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with government law, just as Mr Bundeskanzler wants. This will probably hurt you, Mr Schieder, who is an old and good parliamentarian. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Your clubman Kostelka, I suppose, is right, because since the colleague Kostelka took over your club as an observer – and I think that even in the SPÖ this decision will probably be regretted – it has been shown that this SPÖ was in any case even better served with Fuhrmann. Fuhrmann would not have made himself the willing bundle of the Federal Government, that Fuhrmann would not have responded to the command call of the "truth-loving" Federal Chancellor, and that Parliament's rights - and I say, the whole of Parliament's rights - in an act massively circumcised in a way that you were simply and simply at the time, Mr. Schiederer, I may quote you, in a debate on the rights of the parties, on the rights of the political groups – but in a connection with popular desires from 1988 – even warned that this kind of treatment of a parliament was a very unfair time. [[Complaints with the liberals]] - I took that out. That is why I am convinced that today not every socialist is happy to agree to this proposal that not every socialist is going to be happy when the Federal Chancellor asks that not every socialist is as handy as the Mrs Schmidt and her so-called Liberal Forum for the Government Party SPÖ. No, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that there is also one or another in the government parties who knows that this is a very massive and, as I say, unheard of attack on parliamentarianism in Austria! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With Friedhelm Friesenschlager, I no longer wonder he laughs at it. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Me neither!]] Parliamentaryism is being disassembled – Friedhelm freshener laughs. He used to say that – I may quote you again – this is a "full absurd idea". [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: What is it?]] I'm asking you what that was! Now you decide today and celebrate this as a major reform of the Rules of Procedure, which you called a "full absurd idea" years ago. [[Abg. Haigermoser: As a national observer, he also spit these sounds!]] Who is stronger now – i, the Friedi, or i, the Friedi? – This is the problem of the peace helmet freshener, which he – but I have known you for a long time – does not have for the first time. [[Complaints with the liberals]] He already had that in his student age, he had it in his free time in Salzburg. He never knew who he was shaking his hand, he never knew where he was. He does not know today what he decides to do and what he called a "full absurd idea" in 1987. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: I want to experience your level once!]] With his chairman, Heide Schmidt, under whose Kuratel he is obvious, who made proposals in 1992 to the "loven Jörg" which we have, in part – and of course, already prepared – literally accepted. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For example, we have written in our demands the introduction of an interlocutory speech according to German patterns. Then she says very proudly, the President out of office – at the time she was still President –: Was a suggestion from me, she says. – Today says Friedhelm Freshener: Don't get into question! Today, the same Friedhelm Frischenschlager and his appendix party are voting in favour of a reform of the Rules of Procedure and against reasonable proposals from the Freeman! I can only call a political group that behaves so stubbornly as an annex. You no longer deserve to be taken seriously as an opposition group in this house in any way! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Primitive Pöbelparlamentarism!]] You don't have to talk out now! You changed the disk, we know that. You took out the free diskette and pushed the so-called liberal diskette in from the left. It's not new to us. But at least you should have so much honesty to say: I had to stop. The political constraints of my great chairmen are too great for me to be able, like today's colleague, to give up the courage to appeal to Parliament's rights, in particular to the rights of a political minority, for more control in this House and for a draw-up of parliamentaryism at European level. That is not enough for the courage, which, admittedly, has never been very large, and not for my colleague, Mrs Freshenschlager. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: I would not take the word "level" into your mouth!]] Please don't worry about my level! That's my problem! I am rather worried about a man who today represents the opposite of what he represented a few years ago! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am concerned about such a man, but not about his person, but because of the fact that such a man is a member of a parliament! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: You have no problem, Stadler, you're a problem!]] I am worried about a man who does not know what he represented a few years ago, ladies and gentlemen. I am concerned about a parliament equipped with such people. But of course it will be up to us to clarify this in the coming months and years too! This is what I am saying today, ladies and gentlemen: This appendix party will no longer meet, but one of the two SVP parties! [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Mr President! Are you powerful with these foreign words?]] At least one of the SVP parties will at some point become aware – at least the secretaries are aware, I am not so sure about the Members because the ignorance is truly legendary – or are likely to suffer under this Rules of Procedure in the foreseeable future. I'm convinced of that! For the two club willows do not even renegotiate relations reforms: Once people go out, then they vote against, a few are turned around in the last moment. I don't know what you've been threatening for, like, co-workers Kukacka. – In any case, the end of this coalition is foreseeable. Ladies and gentlemen! If you believe that this coalition is forging for eternity, I am already predicting to you today that one of the two parties is likely to suffer under this Rules of Procedure in the foreseeable future. However, our compassion will be limited! But also the Greens, Mr Wabl, have carried out a 180-degree turnaround. – I can quote Mr Wabl, who was in the "Presse" of 7. In December 1988 the following said at the time limit, ladies and gentlemen: In his opinion, Wabl is meant to bring the planned reduction of the speaking time from 20 to 15 minutes – one must remember this: from 20 to 15 minutes, how dreamily beautiful it would be if this were really in the Rules of Procedure reform! – a "cut-in deterioration". The majority may require the minority to speak as much as possible. Wabl: "No compromises can be made on this sensitive issue." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] And what does Mr. Wabl do today? He explained to the world public at a press conference that he had signed a request a quarter of an hour before that an opposition politician could never sign. He, Wabl, he's doing this! – Wabl, as chairman of the Committee of the Committee of the Regions, agrees that the Court of Auditors should carry out its duties, debates and checks and invite the public to be fully dependent on the majority. Wabl apparently expects him to be part of the majority at some point. However, I believe that Wabl is completely on a utopian steamer in this context, ladies and gentlemen, the High House. Wabl has been pulled over the table. That's the Quintessence. And I would like to know, Mr Wabl, what you have been asked to do to get over the table a quarter of an hour before a press conference. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That would be interesting!]] [[Abg. Wabl: salary of browneder!]] That can't be it, Mr. Wabl. For you would have been delivered to the Fund, and Mr Trattner would oppose that you are suddenly part of our Social Fund. No, that can't be it, Mr. Wabl! What have you been told? [[Abg. Wabl: A job as Bauer has it!]] Is it really the case, Mr Wabl, that it is only, as evil tongues claim, the feed that the Greens feel about the liberals? Because the Greens no longer play a role as opposition at all. But they really don't play a role anymore! A party that behaves like this does not deserve the name "opposition"! – Feel Is it really only a feed neide because opposition policy in this House is made exclusively by the liberals? Or is that a bad rumor? I'm inclined to believe this rumor. I am inclined to believe that Mr Wabl has had no more concern for more than a year than to consider: How do we curtail the rights of the liberals? I am ready for every disgrace, essentially, we play a better role when we have narrowed down the radius of action of the liberals. Mr Wabl! That's a short-sighted bill, believe me! Because the number of mandates you bring into the scales, we will all bring in the first three rows, believe me! And that will not change in the next few years. If you continue, then you will continue to be atomized, you are now the fifth largest party in this House, and that is right! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For a party that only sees itself as the left wing of the SPÖ to make a little left wing cover there for an interior minister, a party that sees its main opponent in the liberal opposition, a party that takes 90 percent of the contributions – at least until a few sessions so – to care for no one else as for the liberals, is in fact not an opposition party. You have proved that when you agreed to this incredible reform of the Rules of Procedure, which represents a massive attack on parliamentarianism – I can only repeat it. Mr Khol has already been quoted today. I do not want to do this again, because I have already felt sorry for him. Mr President, I should like to thank Here you see what human rains I have! I now feel sorry for Andreas Khol, because his group is no longer behind him. Internally, he's being shot and antagonized. He doesn't have it easy, you have to say that! In addition, he has a coalition partner who confronts him every day with a sense, keeps him at the bedside every day, every day at the nose ring, as you really do, colleague Count, in public. Ladies and gentlemen! In 1986, even though the Austrian Parliament was still of the well-founded opinion that it had too few plenary sessions, it must be a very slow pity for such a clubman. At that time Andreas Khol literally said: I do not know any European Parliament with so few plenary sessions. Mr Khol! On the other hand, we have just been able to remedy it! You should take note of how seriously we take your criticism! We said: Andreas Khol is the well-founded and correct opinion that there is too little plenary session. – And what did we do? We have requested one special session after another, on one important subject after another, ladies and gentlemen. And suddenly Andreas Khol was the opposite! What happened to Andreas Khol? Is it the same mutation as Friedhelm's freshener? That's incredible! However, I suspect that Andreas Khol – as is currently the case with the whole EIA – has been under the pressure of the Socialists. The pressure in this coalition must be horrendous! Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what a powerful act it took to repair the pensioner the ÖVP imposed on the Socialists before the National Council election. Because of this self-employed person, who is responsible for Gottfried Feurstein, the SPÖ had to run through the National Council election almost in an 11-meter shoot. After the National Council election, Andreas Khol wanted to erase this heavy crowd. He managed, but that was, of course, enormous effort for him, so that he was no longer able to remember the level of parliamentaryism he demanded in 1986. And I'm very sorry, Mr. Khol. At the beginning of the first discussions, I immediately noticed that everything was in vain. The Socialists have put on the traffic lights, they still dream of the traffic light project. But at first I had the impression that there was an interest in talking at the ÖVP. I am therefore very sorry that the ÖVP once again – I emphasize this: once again – has fallen by now, for example, Mr Amon and Mr Kukacka, for example. The ÖVP is ready to fall over constantly and complains about the fall pains also with the liberals. Mr Khol! In this case, you are responsible for your crasher yourself! Like you, as a clubman of a minority party, you should remember that, as part of the SVP coalition, you are still a minority party! – I am incomprehensible, Mr Khol, that rules that make almost every small matter dependent on the will of a majority decision can be accepted. This is completely incomprehensible to me! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] How can you agree to this as a group that is now shrinking to 53 Members and is likely to lose another mandate in the foreseeable future? You will lose this in the case of by-elections that we owe to the Federal Minister other than service Moser. – I would like to thank her very much. Since she did not know what a constituency was, there will be a re-election on the basis of a court of the Constitutional Court. There is no doubt about that anymore. A party that is currently suffering a legendary crash in all the polls cannot see eyes entering a Rules of Procedure, which is ultimately nothing but a gag, even a party of the size of the Austrian People's Party! That is why I am very surprised that the ÖVP has once again given up the pressure of the Socialists and is ready today, the number of special sessions – Khol has still lamented that there are so few plenary sessions! – to limit the number of urgent requests. An important instrument of control of parliamentarianism is being suffocated. The speaking time should also be reduced down, ladies and gentlemen, in part there will be only 5 minutes. This is a level where this House no longer deserves the term "parliament" – that comes from "reasons" –, ladies and gentlemen, High House! 5 minutes is still granted to the opposition to debate contributions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the case of a request for a time limit, the scheme is even so absurd that, for example, a debate on an application for a committee of inquiry can no longer be held at all. This must be broken on the tongue: A deadline application can be made by a club and only once – once! - to be placed per week. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Friedhelm! Did you agree?]] Ladies and gentlemen! There can only be a time limit once a week and a fraction of the House. At present, however, there is unlimited possibility of making requests for deadlines. [[Abg. Wabl: You do not know the Rules of Procedure!]] I know the Rules of Procedure very well. You can make virtually unlimited requests for deadlines today with a political group of our size. [[Abg. Wabl: Practical!]] Yes, of course! [[Abg. Wabl: Show us the destiny!]] Mr Wabl, listen to me. You can't make rules for your dream country! If I speak of "opposition", I only speak of my group. Your group cannot claim to be an opposition group! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are still willing to agree that the number of minutes of speech in a committee of inquiry will be reduced to zero - to zero! – this reform of the Rules of Procedure will then become an anti-oppressive, anti-control instruments by which Parliament is made mouth-to-mouth in its control function. [[Abg. Wabl: Show destiny!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The club director of the Freedom Club and my ability to work in the working group, who had the task of preparing the meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, made extensive proposals. [[Abg. Wabl: Mr President! Help him!]] We have made extensive proposals on how to improve the debate, as measured by European regulations, and to expand one point or another, without reducing opposition rights in the outcome. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Measured by what European regulations?]] These proposals were even appreciated by Mr Fischer, who had the chairmanship in this Committee on Labour. They were even thought of as a conspicuousness to the majority. Today, it turns out that the two SVP parties and their appendix parties have long packed everything out. The whole discussion, the number of requests and proposals, the number of pages in almost literal transmission of the discussions the house staff had to make were all these efforts for the cat! Why were they for the cat? – Because everything has already been packed out! It was clear from the outset that the reform of the Rules of Procedure does not want to be implemented with the liberals. It was clear to Klubobmann Kostelka from the outset that he will pick up the fig leaf at the appendix parties and that one does not want to talk to the opposition in the high house at all. They behaved in the same way as in the reference reform, always according to the motto: Less control, less work, more cash! – This has been important to Klubobmann Kostelka, and this has also been important to Klubobmann Khol. If you don't believe it, you should look at the twins' first request, which was to catapult yourself on ministerial salaries. That went parallel. This immeasurability must be borne in mind! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] I think you think this is funny. But I do not find it funny in your place, because just as you are being discussed in your own group, your days are counted as a clubman. Parliamentaryism In the meantime enough damage was suffered among you because you would have to answer for such a arrangement! Parliamentaryism has finally been able to prevent five years ago, with the pressure of public opinion, that you are also equipped with a ministerial content and that you have been even better than you were at the "Höchtln" before, Mr Kostelka! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Kostelka.]] That's how things look! They are seeking a reform of the Rules of Procedure with less parliamentaryism, according to the motto: What the chancellor commands is executed by Kostelka immediately. On this occasion, the references will also be lifted up! And all of this is then referred to as "the reform of the Rules of Procedure" and "parliamentaryism". Ladies and gentlemen! My group cannot approve of such a procedure because, unlike the two appendix parties, it still understands itself as a true opposition group, which fully performs its control function. And that will be so in the future too! That's how it's going to be. You can't even limit our possibilities, I can already predict it to you today. Here you underestimate our imagination and the remaining possibilities enormously! We are going to move a lot to the extra-parliamentary area. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Very limited, however!]] Please? – This is a rare admission when Mr Barmüller speaks of "limited". Mr Barmüller! A certain self-knowledge is the beginning of the improvement! Because what your party is showing here is indeed – you are right! – completely limited. That is the limitation of parliamentarianism to such a level that it no longer deserves the term 'parliamentaryism'!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14760	I would like to propose further action, but I would like to avoid any comments which at least give rise to the impression that other parties are to be discredited. The next item is Mr Kostelka. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e14784	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor didn't seem to have it used. He has gripped deeply into the box, which is always at hand with the liberals, namely the box whose only purpose is to contain insults. Mr Stadler! You're infinitely sorry. You really must note that opposition is not to be equated exclusively with the Freedom Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] In addition, there are still constructive and very critical opposition fractions, which are not only about fruitification, but also about defaming this house as a "quatschbude". [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This is immense!]] That's the reality! Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You have to note today that the majority of this House simply and simply does not like this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If it were you, then the maximum of parliamentarianism would have been achieved if we had only a matter of urgency from the beginning to the end of the session, in which permanent arguments are repeated, which are already known to all but which have nothing to do with reality. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: To the Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Ofner! Please note that also applies to you: A report on business treatment is not permitted during the speech of a Member. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You can't control yourself!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] There are also political groups in this House who want to work in a parliamentary manner, not only in terms of the laws, but also in terms of looking at the same blow again and again, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Take the foam off the mouth!]] And you do that against all the evidence, against all the hard facts that are put on the table. You just want to crack from day to day! And what we want to ensure with this reform of the Rules of Procedure is that we have plenary sessions in which no more Fidel-Castro speeches are held, but a rapid succession of arguments will be achieved! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: This is last-class!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Automatic@item:inmenu Text Completion Your minority report is infinitely demasking. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's good!]] He shows your attitude: Parliamentaryism is to be healed by the liberal nature. Do you know what this report says? – I give an example of the proposals made by the liberals. There it says: "In addition, the liberal idea of the reform of the Rules of Procedure was aimed at a recovery and further development of the free democratic parliamentarianism of Austrian influence." So far, so good. [[Abg. Scheibner: Bravo! Very good!]] Then comes the only proposal you've made: "For example, the Liberal Group proposed and requested the creation of the interlocutory speech according to the model of the German Bundestag." [[Abg. Haigermoser: Among other things, of course!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A look after Bonn is your further development of Austrian parliamentarianism. – That’s really free logic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] The reform of the Rules of Procedure is defamated as a cleriko-marxist attack on democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! That's simple and just ridiculous, nothing but ridiculous! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Is the creation of a work plan according to the model: a plenary week, two committee weeks and a sitting-free week really a clerical-marxist attack on parliamentarianism? [[Abg. Haigermoser: For your speech you have to generate yourself!]] Do you know what the outcome of this reform is? – The result is that there will be more plenary sessions and more committee days a year than before. And is that supposed to be a restriction on Parliament's work? You do not seem to be able to count the plenary and committee days together because otherwise you will not be able to reach your conclusion! [[Calls and countercalls to the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] We will have four special sessions a year in the future. Within 25 years, we have had a total of six. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that, on average, there was a special meeting in a quarter of a century per legislative period. So we're democratizing that. There are four special sessions in the future – and these will certainly take place. They complain, however, that there will be less parliamentaryism! [[Calls and countercalls to the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] That's just ridiculous! You are only presumptuous that this right does not belong to you alone, but also to other political groups. That's it! As always, you are miserable when parliamentary rights are sought. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There will also be urgent requests, a completely new instrument which has not yet been adopted. Opposition parties can not only question a member of the government, they will also be able to confront it in a short time with a request. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What you feel is a bad joke!]] Is that less parliamentarianism? Is that less control? Is this less dispute with the government? – Apparently, you are not ready and able to actually picture the possibilities that will arise for you in this context. There is a completely new right to opposition groups to ensure that applications are not only discussed in the Committee, but that the Committee is obliged to report to the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an essential additional right for you: You can ensure that a request is discussed not only in the Committee's "domestic" – under quotations – but in all the public of the plenary and that the government groups are forced to present their arguments. Is that less parliamentarianism? We have substantially expanded public rights. There is an end to the committee which has to be public. [[Abg. Haigermoser: I'm afraid you believe what you're telling us!]] The Court of Auditors may be public in broad areas. EU consultations will be public in the main committee. Expert hearings in committees will be public, and there will also be public hearings in survey committees. Ladies and gentlemen! Does this additional public, which is a support for the opposition, mean less parliamentaryism? – I really don't understand you! Either you do not understand the possibilities that are given in this context for an opposition, or you are quite simply once again on the track: To say something is one thing, the fact itself is another. [[Abg. Scheibner: All these are majority rights!]] There's still a lot of arguments to be put forward. Finally, I would like to say: In the future, Parliament's two most sensitive control instruments, namely the Permanent Subcommittees on Stapo and Army News Office, will not only have to be consulted and met every six months, but also every quarter. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an increase in the impact of these highly sensitive, important committees. [[Abg. Scheibner: It must not be true that you yourself believe this!]] Is that a minus of parliamentarism? Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You're sitting in a flat angle. There is a reform of the Rules of Procedure with the broad participation of the opposition, with the exception of your party, and that is something that simply does not fit into the free world. There is a parliamentarianism in Austria that lives, and this one says no to an opposition policy as you operate it. Today in this theatre and on Friday it is finally decided!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15061	Mr Dr. Ofner, Member of the Commission, on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15082	Mr President. In the context of the speech we have just heard, the speaker Kostelka – not anyone, but the clubman of the strongest group in the House – has drawn the liberal group or the liberals at all to see Parliament as a "quatschbude". [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: The suspicion is close!]] He has consciously applied us to Goebbels. "Quatschbude" is a well-known Goebbels expression. Goebbels has fought against parliamentarianism by calling Parliament "quatschbude". [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It's an immense derailment when a...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15120	On the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. They must express a concrete desire for negotiation. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15135	Mr President. I request that the sitting be suspended so that the President-in-Office can meet.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15166	High house! I see no reason to interrupt the session for a presidential one. But I interrupt briefly and ask the clubmen for a very brief meeting with me.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15190	I'll start the interrupted session again. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. I'll give him the word. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Kiss: Can we get to know the result?]] It will not interrupt the meeting, it will not convene a presidential meeting. I asked the clubmen to ensure that the discussion was continued in an objective manner. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Mr deputies, please make use of it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15232	Thank you. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, it is the way I feared it in the morning: The star hour of parliamentarianism has not become one of today's events. [[Abg. Arbitrators: From that time on!]] Mr Arbitrator, perhaps from the time, but not from the weather outside. [[Abg. Dr. Lösnak: Mr. Chief, we can't do that!]] Mr Löschnak, I would like to admit that to you; You've been trying. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that today's amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the National Council does not agree and that the Freedom Party here was excluded from the negotiations five minutes ago by the other four political groups of this House by presenting a four-party agreement at a press conference and the Committee meeting was held only after that, in order to continue to consult the Committee on Free Trade is a fact. There is no way to criticize or point out, that is to say, historical tradition, that is so. The reasons for this approach have been the same, the other has seen it so. We liberals have seen it as the conscious rejection of our proposals, which we have made, as the non-increasing response to our proposals, which are on the table, and have drawn the consequences from them. We have left the Committee by a majority following a protest resolution presented by our Clubobmann representative Stadler and a negative vote on this package because it does not include our ideas. Mr Kostelka! I see two things positively in this reform: that the possibility of installing electronic voting systems has been created, and that, in the second vote, if the Croquis is not present, it can be moved at a later stage, so that we can save our voting gap, which in the past has also contributed to the fact that Parliament's reputation has not just grown. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] Whether this is enough, Mr President, to welcome this reform as a whole, I would like to doubt it. But one thing seems worth mentioning to me: In the debate, it has always been seen by all the speakers – and I assume that some of the speakers have also considered the minutes of the last 40 years to be debates on the Rules of Procedure – until 1993 as an indisputable advantage, that all of them have been involved and that the most important reforms in this House have been characterized by the commonness and also by the common look, not from the point of view of the government or from the point of view of the opposition, but from the point of view of each of them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl, you then have time to explain your views here, your views on the past, your own speeches, your changing picture of the current reform, and the changing attitudes you have taken in the previous reforms – at the speaking time for example – that can be read and that your current efforts to contribute to this reform are diametrically opposed – as seen in the example of the speaking times. The documents are available in Parliament, rereadable to everyone. There are time documents that can be read by everyone. And you have the problem of explaining and explaining your changes to your voters, to your party members and also to the members of your own group. That's not my problem. My problem is that the most important rights of opposition in this Parliament have been clearly and clearly cut for me. The starting point of the reform was to give the right of occupation, in the case of the appointment of the head of the Court of Auditors, the right of opposition in the appropriate form. No word of it in this reform. The last reform implemented the idea of a small committee of inquiry, the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors. He is still without a Rules of Procedure today. But Mr Klubobmann Kostelka says that the rights of the opposition, including the rights of the two small opposition parties, have been considered and implemented here. Perhaps the reason is that the obsessor of this small committee of inquiry, as he was seen in the last reform, is not a member of the constructive opposition, but a member of the great opposition, namely the Freedom Party, that one did not want this small committee of inquiry to ever work and ever to act. This is an obvious problem, I believe, which our Parliament has been carrying for two years now. The public in the Committee on Europe had already been given. The minutes were public in the European Committee. Although there are no protocols of words, the whole protocols. Now, I think that parts – and I think this is good, Mr Schieder, that we have looked very well at the Danes, I think – will no longer be public where the government is bound so that our European negotiators will not be able to rely on it. But it will at the same time be this non-publicity a right of majority. It will be the right of the majority, and the majority will decide on it. And so, Mr Schieder, it cannot be that Mr Kostelka is selling it as a minority right. Today, all the contributions made by all the opposition parties and those by the government parties, although not word for word, are read according to the meaning of each one. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But confidentiality must also be decided by a majority!]] Then, Mr Schieder, if a subject is on the agenda that interests the government, the qualified majority will decide who, depending on the situation of space, the parliament staff or newspapers, or whoever, will be approved as public. But the majority will decide. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But now, too! If the majority has decided!]] Today, Mr Schieder, every journalist in Austria can take the minutes of the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Arbitrators: If the majority has decided, do not!]] Yes, if it has decided by the majority, not, but the rest, Mr Schieder, could get anybody. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then it was confidential!]] They will then allow a narrower circle qualitatively or not allowed. [[Abg. Arbitrators: So far, it was also the majority!]] I see that, Mr Arbitrator, I do not see this as more rights to the opposition, but I see it as a restriction. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Just like before!]] And I also say to you one, Mr. Arbitrator. If your clubman Dr. Kostelka here says something in the chest of conviction as truth, I must say: In ten years of parliamentarianism, when Kostelka was State Secretary, I learned one thing: If Kostelka indicates to say a correct legal interpretation, then I will be twice as careful. For in my memory, over the last ten years, Mr Klubobmann Kostelka has been the only Member and then the only one who has been sitting in the Constitutional Committee as a representative of the government, as a Secretary of State, and who has strongly protested the Constitutional Committee against better knowledge and, although his own employees have protested against it, has given legal interpretations, which were not with any single word, in order not to use the word of lie, to take account of the present legislative instruments. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: Can you give an example of this?]] There are some examples of where he had to pack up and leave the committee, and the Austrian People's Party has then taken the opportunity to reform the links. I remember that. That is why I remember exactly when Kostelka is using legal quotations here, which man I am dealing with, and what legal truth I am dealing with, Mr Kostelka. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am sure that you will not take this view away from me, and that is why we are both likely to have to end our lives, Mr Kostelka. This is a fact and is also contained in the reports of the Constitutional Committee and in the memory of those who were there at the time. They were then State Secretary, Mr Kostelka, and I was a simple Member. I have noticed this, and I will continue to remember it. I also believe that there is no further progress in the desire for special meetings, as is being discussed here today. Today, if you have a qualified majority, you can ask for special sessions in the appropriate form if they appear necessary to you. In the future, a limited number of special meetings may be required, and this limited number of special meetings will be divided between the opposition parties. However, any party which does not have the necessary quota may, if it has a political group size, apply accordingly. I believe that the departure from the traditional strength here in Parliament, simply to give rights to the political groups, without prejudice to their strength and their size, is a superior departure from the principle of a strong relationship at all. On the one hand, the strong conditions of the government parties are recorded as strongly and as drastically as possible. On the other hand, all the rights that have been mounted in the past, certainly also representatives of the government parties, as classical opposition rights, have not been furnished as such. Therefore, one has not upgraded the opposition's rights, one has only distributed them differently. The fact that those who have gained their strength in this distribution struggle have now joined the Government's draft, is your case, ladies and gentlemen, of the Greens and the Liberals. The fact that we do not regard this as a strengthening of the opposition is due to your behaviour over the last two years, because in many passages you have criticized the other opposition party than the government parties. The speeches can also be read. I think it is even for cockbucks that, when an urgent request is made, only one question can be made. Ladies and gentlemen of the other parties! Consider the situation of this Parliament. Since the constitutional reform of 1929 and now also through the introduction of data protection, the responses of ministers have become increasingly poor. Parliament's right of control has been classically undermined. The answers we get from the ministers, where they just tell us, that's none of our business, have become more and more poor. And now we can do one more, even if three different ministries put on the table what we call popular reddish answers. We can only then do more about the limited speaking time. We can only express our displeasure here with one speaker for ten minutes and one speaker per group for five minutes, with two or three speakers perhaps speaking for the government parties, of course as supporters of those who are the majority of the government here, so that the whole opposition is limited to 20 or a maximum of 25 minutes of speaking time in order to formulate here a behaviour in the disability of their classic control right. Mr Kostelka is right: It's gonna go bag-zag here. Just as bag-zag will go, it will blow off, and the echo will of course become scarce, because it's going to be so bag-zag. And on the other hand, consider You once: It is lamented here that the diction is getting harder and harder and harder. Yes, do you still wonder if speaking times can be limited to three and five minutes from the third speaker and the first speakers will only have more than 10 or 20 or 15 minutes, depending on what? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] Mr Barmüller. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Barmüller, for his excellent report. Then you will be excited again that the diction is getting tougher and harder, the colors are becoming more and more black and white, only the good of the requests of your own group and the bad is seen on the requests of the other political groups and black and white painting becomes classic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Barmüller, perhaps do You can also make the effort to go down to the library and look at the speeches! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] I know it is unbearable for you, Mr Barmüller, to find out that you have not extended the rights of opposition. But if you vote here today, you will have to live with it. And I will not make this life any easier for you, but I will point out to you that you must live with your responsibility. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: This is pathetic!]] Of course, Mr Barmüller: Those who vote in favour must also be responsible. That is the principle here in Parliament. For this, you are liable to your voters, to your clients, to your interested parties, and no one will release you from it. And you will have to make the accusation – and that is why I am clear – that it has become unbearable for you to listen to other opinions. Therefore, these other opinions may only become more brief. And these other opinions should become as short as possible as possible that they are no longer heard at all – that would certainly be your favorite, Mr Barmüller, if I [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller]] You now experience the way you exalt and spend, because it is obvious that you have become unbearable to have different opinions from those of yours. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can also imagine that you will be happy and satisfied. Now, thanks to God, you can only correct more than two minutes and speak only more than five minutes from the third speaker, and you will already strongly insist that the chairman of the Court of Auditors in the Committee of Auditors withdraws from the word for the first time after ten minutes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller]] He can then speak for a second, third or fourth time, but probably only when the government parties have already decided again that the public must now leave the committee. For the members of the government there can distribute their positions unlimited, unlimited. As a Member of Parliament who wishes to control you, Mr Wabl can then be deprived of the floor after ten minutes. Then someone, possibly to highlight the scenario from the other side, makes the request to exclude the public, and then you can talk again the second and the third time. But then the public is back where it wants the majority in the committee. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a difficult situation for the barmüller!]] And the only thing that still stands in the room is the exuberant opposition of the member of the government, who cannot be restricted by constitutional means and can therefore talk as long as it wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Barmüller.]] And this, Mr Barmüller, you want to sell us by saying that Parliamentaryism has been strengthened, that control has been strengthened. . Thank you, Mr Barmüller, for strengthening parliamentary possibilities and control. And something else: If you follow the speaking times, you will see that it was earlier possible to draw some item on the agenda by Filibusters in order to bring in appropriate form agenda items that a party considered important at the time when they were medially effective. Now the urgent question becomes the same instrument. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: From 3 p.m.!]] In the future, urgent requests will be temporarily limited. They will be moved an hour before at 3 p.m. – but then the government parties will also have the instrument. Mr Kostelka has forgotten, in his statistics, that not only were six special sessions in 25 years' time, but we have had it again for the first time in the last five years after 20 years, that the government parties have brought two urgent cases against themselves. An instrument of the Court, which should in fact only be granted the opposition, namely that of urgent request against the government, was made by you... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Why?]] Of course, look! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Parliament controls the government!]] Skill You don't remember how you wanted to put on our urgent back? And you have made this instrument even better now, because you, the two government parties, usually do not bring in any urgent ones. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is what Members bring in, not parties!]] You will now have a new means if a urgent party to the opposition is on the table who does not fit in with you, Mr President. You will then bring in a urgent by the government or one of the government parties, which will of course be called, because you haven't had one for a long time, and that of the opposition, no matter what opposition party it brings in, will not take place. If the opposition party makes the same urgency in the next week, the second government party will bring in its urgency. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's how you'd handle it!]] No, just as this will be handled in urgent cases. [[Abg. Dr. Schwimmer: As the bad guy thinks he is!]] You will see this, Mr. Khol. And I have no doubt from the experience of the last five years, how you have used the instrument of the urgents here and for what purpose and for what purpose. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: One we did!]] And you've improved this opportunity now. This opportunity, Mr Khol, you have now improved. There is no discussion about this, that is a fact. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President-in-Office of the Council, the President-in-Office of the Council, the President-in-Office of the Council, the President-in-Office of the Council, the President-in-Office of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the Council, the President of the And that, if the urgency cannot take place, the debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry on the subject is not possible, is an additional fine. And all of this is referred to by our two competitors in the opposition as strengthening the opposition! I believe that a word from Mr Pilz, which I do not otherwise estimate, but which can be read in the parliamentary protocols on page 10117, is perhaps more true today than he did at the time, namely in the 88. Meeting of the XVII. ==References== 12. 1988. "What you are trying to do today," Pilz said, "is to restrict the right to speak and at the same time to enrich yourself in the middle of the night at the expense of taxpayers is nothing but an attack on Austrian democracy." And that's how I see today!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15563	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Stadler. I refer to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15587	Mr President. High house! With reference to the minority report on the Rules of Procedure, the Klubobmann Kostelka has made the claim that the liberals would have taken bonds in Germany when it was suggested that the instrument of interlocutory speech be created for the further development of Austrian parliamentarianism. I'm correcting: That's wrong. We have included only Austrian suggestions here in the minority report and in our proposals. On the one hand, I have already mentioned this – the present proposal of the former Third President of the National Council... [[Abg. Dispensers: Not that you have done it, but he has said that you have written it.]] No, he said: This makes it clear where we're going to borrow. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This is to check if the sentence is there!]] I quote again: We have been bonded to the former Third President of the National Council, as already in the letter of 7 March. 9. ==References====External links== But, Mr Kostelka, what you should be interested in: We took note of the opinion of the Socialist Group on the reform of the Rules of Procedure Act of 27. October 1992 under your esteemed predecessor Dr. Fuhrmann, where it is literally called under point V – I quote –: "The introduction of a German-style interlocutory speech is welcomed by the SP Group." End of quote. – We have included this in the minority report and in our proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15650	Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15671	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, since 1986 I have been committed to a modern parliamentaryism and a comprehensive parliamentary reform. It is true what Mr Haider quoted in the early morning. I have already said in 1986 that there are not enough parliamentary days. We now have more parliamentary days, and the work plan we are deciding on today will significantly increase the number of parliamentary days. And that is why a point I suggested in 1986 has been carried out. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I have also said, as Mr Haider correctly quoted, that many would prefer to talk more often, and I have said that the speaking time is too short. Only Mr Haider, in his selective perception, did not read my conclusion from it, which I read from the Minutes: "It is also up to us to make the right of speech. I think we're generally – and I don't take it myself – talking for too long. The speeches are too long. And in this way, the 45-minute speeches take place." So I suggested – yes – that we introduce the short speeches, as is the case in some parliaments. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Five! That was five!]] There the speaker, who commits himself from the outset not to speak for more than five minutes, is privileged to speak. Ladies and gentlemen! I have remained faithful to myself, we have introduced the short speeches, and I am proud that my club has not spoken for more than 20 minutes for two years and the average ÖVP speaker does not talk longer than ten minutes. I believe that this is living parliamentaryism, and I would recommend that Mr Haider read my statements of speech – if he already reads them – so that he can quote them in full. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We propose a comprehensive Parliamentary reform today. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your remaining speaking time is two or three minutes!]] I am glad that the Greens and the Liberals are also in the service of a defensive parliamentarianism when it comes to not putting a party's welfare in the foreground, but to the common good of effective legislation, effective control and a modern parliamentary process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a whole series of new challenges to answer, because Grandpa's Parliament is dead. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Opas Parliament – Mr. Schieder, why does he point to you?]] The new Parliament must face the challenges of the media because there are new challenges, because the media are everywhere and always there. We must improve our image, and above all we must fight the impression that Parliament is only taking place in plenary session and that the Committee's work is carried out with the exclusion of the public. We have followed this media law, we will have on the one hand public in the committees, we will have shorter speeches, we will have opposition speech, and the Fidel-Castro-like speeches, as she rightly apostrophic to my colleague Kostelka, belong to history. You won't let anyone go! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also no longer a reality for the two-party parliament, nor the two-and-a-half-party parliament. We have five political groups. It was high time the opposition rights were distributed fairly to the opposition groups. And I already understand your pain, Mr Stadler, Mr Chief: They react like a child you took away his favorite toy. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's the same! [[Abg. May. Stadler: One more minute, Mr. Khol!]] Mr Stadler! How long I'm talking here is my own decision. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You owe that to yourself! Five minutes, you said!]] The only positive thing I have heard from you today is that you have called me SVP members. I interpret that as the South Tyrol People's Party, and I am proud of it. [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another challenge we have to answer is the danger of government legislation. And I believe that this is a real danger that our accession to the European Union will shorten the legislative rights of the National Council and the Federal Council. It was high time that we formed the main committee rights in this regard, that we set up the Subcommittee, and that in this way we also have the Consultative Committee, so that we can effectively bring our views into the EU at any time of the legislative procedures, and that is important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Your speaking time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also have to take account of our time-setting, because, please, only we in here feel it is an immense world sensation when two urgent ones are taken if the ministers are quoted when the ministers wait in the couloirs until their appearance comes. All the others say: Time's going to be spent here. – It should be controlled, it should be monitored, it should be discussed. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, with rational use of the only non-replaceable resource: the time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Stadler! You have said – and you are right – that every political group in this House has the right to judge the rights of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that, if it is a government party today, it may also be opposition party and then be acceptable to them. That is a completely correct point of view! And we have seriously examined whether we would not feel like an opposition party with this Rules of Procedure. We have examined this carefully and have found: It makes no difference whether we are now dealing with an urgent request in five hours or in two hours. In two hours you can reasonably do much more than with 30 speakers in seven hours! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I believe that this is about time use. We have discussed this very seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, of course, we also need to bear in mind the common good. But also an opposition party must be concerned with the quality of legislation and the possibility of legislation, and also an opposition party must leave the church in the village if it believes in parliamentarianism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll come to the end. We all have a responsibility in this House for the fact that no one outside or even here in the house has reason to mock this Parliament as a "quatsch-bude"!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15850	Mr Dr. Ofner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e15872	Mr President. High house! Today's debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure or reform at all has only been given the right impetus by the derailment of the clubman of the Social Democrats Kostelka. – Persons such as Kostelka are a burden on parliamentarianism and democracy and an accident for social democracy with their cynical belts! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Many of you may have already recognized it, the others will still recognize it: The fact that the European Community is a member of the European Parliament is a member of the European Parliament and of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. And you will still fall very heavily on your head that you have such a cynical, hateful clubman who literally frightens nothing back! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But Khol has also said a very open word that characterizes the whole debate and the whole project: He has explained that it seems to have taken away her favorite toy from the liberal and that they are therefore acting accordingly. And that's what it's all about. It is not his old concern that we should talk shorter and that democracy should be adapted to the opposites of our days, but that he wanted to take away the opposition's toys. – Parliament is not the opposition’s toys, but Parliament is the field of opposition! And that's exactly what it was about. There is a virulent, effective, strong, an unpleasant opposition for the ruling: These are the liberals. Their field is, of course, Parliament, and this field was meant to be disputed. That's why it's happening today, and that's the only thing it's all about. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, Parliament's image has changed over the last decades. There were three political groups in the past. I've been here in the house for 17 years: I can't remember that in the first decade a reserve day had ever been adapted. There have been different forms of government: Single government of the Social Democrats, small coalition, after that a great coalition. There has always been the corresponding, even loud and long-lasting scenarios in Parliament. I remember the four years of the small coalition. At that time, the opposition, which was then the ÖVP, was right – that was its good right, it annoyed us, but it did not happen to us to make it disputed – here in Parliament and also outside Parliament some things listed! She has made abundant use of her right hand. She embarrassed us on the government bank. It called for the socialists of that time and the liberals of that time. But no one, neither the Social Democrats nor the Freeman, would have thought it would take just a second to say: Now the Rules of Procedure will be changed and they will have nothing to talk about, not even in Parliament. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You didn't have a majority for that!]] We were all really democrats at the time, never would we have thought of missing you a gag, just as it is now, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Khol.]] If you want, you can always miss gags. Then you're talking about abuse. Ladies and gentlemen! If a legal possibility – including the urgent and special sessions – is used, is also used extensively, then the "use" is not "use". One speaks of "abuse" when one goes beyond the limit of the authorised person. On the other hand, if you take advantage of the authorized person, that is no abuse. When I cross the crossroads when I'm red, it's a misuse of my options with the motor vehicle. However, if I take a walk and drive along the intersection so often in green, that is no abuse. I can get annoyed by it, but they can't forbid me. And if they forbid me, it is against law and rights, ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that one needs nerves to be able to cope with things by a relatively weak majority as a relatively weak government. But please keep an eye on two things. A circumstance has already been mentioned several times today: The scenario, who is in the government and who is in opposition, can often change very quickly and often very surprisingly. None of those today who are in their position as government party members can know whether this will still be the case in the morning. I already hear – I do not wish it at all! – that new elections should be held again. It is already being plundered that this year too will not end without new elections to the National Council. They are trying to make coffee house moods come up and show that: Although you are sitting in Parliament, you can chat with the club, as if you were not doing anything about it. – You signal: It only speaks the opposition anyway. Soon she'll be allowed to talk shorter, soon only a few minutes. Now the member of the opposition can still talk for a long time. He wants to say something to the chole, but you make sure to demonstrate that a chole doesn't even have to listen when the oven speaks. And that's what an unheard-of university professor is thinking about being a Tyrolean – and that's what – isn't it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: The fact that you are a Tyrolean can also be imagined! I don't think of anything at the university professor's place!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Because I wanted to talk to you: However, you deliberately responded to a coffee house chatter, just to show that the opposition should not talk to you at all. That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Leave us to decide what "coffee house looting" is!]] But from the high horse, my dear Andreas, you're back down faster than you believe! I know what I'm talking about. Take care of it. It can happen to you every day, and the other one will pass away just as quickly! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You belong to the Old Lord's Party!]] Mrs. Colleague! You've been incomprehensiblely excited for me today. I see you're not good at it today. I'll advise you: Save your nerves! Because even if you belong to a government party, you have to keep your nerves. Or the person concerned leaves, like Kostelka, when unpleasant speakers come for him, the local. This is possible, of course! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you want to tell me, Harald?]] It is just as rude to want to make a coffee house out of the body as it is rude and contrary to democracy to want to gnaw the opposition. [[Other calls of the Abg. Steibl.]] I'm talking to the clubman, and I'm not questioning like at the coffee shop! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I know what I'm talking about!]] I already told you: You'll be down from the high horse faster than you believe! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you want to tell me?]] That's what I wanted to tell you. Your coalition partner has already said "yes" if you should have missed it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Yes" is more your diction!]] Not quite! This is probably the tyrolean division. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: We say yes or "well, well"!]] – It's all right, I'll remember! But the Steirs apparently say yes. Someone said yes. Was it Koppler? - No? It's all right! Some guy said yes. A coalition partner of yours is looking forward to... [[Calls and appeals to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] He doesn't even admit it. But I am totally incomprehensible that the smaller, ineffective opposition, the greens and the yellows can be used for a fig leaf function. Because nothing else is this: You'll get some sugars as a gift. You may, even though you have not been allowed to do so, take a special meeting for yourself. But, moreover, they lend their hand to a step to which the government parties would not have understood without this fig leaf operation by the Greens and the Yellows. But one thing you both will still recognize, I say that above all to the two gentlemen who were certainly leading, Friedhelm Freshenschlager, who was my roommate for years, and Thomas Barmüller, who was my concept. I know both relatively well. Both are good guys. You know what they're doing. [[Abg. Dr. Maitz: That's why they also left you!]] Thank you, dear. I can also tell you why they left. The Peace Helmet has gone away – he may not be angry with me, but I was now provoked by colleague Maitz – after being in my ears for years. He said: What do you want me to do? I know they never put me up in Salzburg. Dear Harald! Please don't make the mistake, like I do, that you don't live where you're running. I can't go back to university at the age of 50 as an assistant. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: I never said that!]] That was the way. He didn't act like that because he was so hot. He wanted to be in Parliament again. And this bill has gone up. I didn't betray it now, but I was provoked to do so. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Maitz.]] Yes, he's thanking you, my dear Maitz. And this is true in a sense for all those who have changed so quickly. No one was a convinced liberal, so we didn't keep up with it anymore. But everyone has known that he will no longer be able to run with us. And then he was looking for a party where it would be possible to get back to Parliament. That's it! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What about Barmüller?]] Barmüller was my concept. On the day before that, he said what is not unusual in the case of con siders: I'm not here tomorrow morning. - That's what you're saying to the boss. I said, That's right. I thought: He makes a survey, goes to court or the like. He was not present, as I said. When I go down to the street to drive into Parliament, my wife comes, and she asks: Where are you going? That's what I'm saying: In Parliament. She asks: Are you visiting your half group? That's what I'm saying: Why? Then she answers: Don't you know that your composer is currently holding a press conference at the Press Club "Concordia" and announces the establishment of a new party? – That was my farewell from my two friends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager.]] I haven't told anyone so far, but now I'm telling you. I've been provoked in this direction. I trust both – and most other Greens and Liberals too – that they will recognize what they will do for the future at the expense of all the opposition parties with their consent; with this agreement they will cover the government parties with the help of which they can create the unpleasant opposition from the neck. With this agreement, they believe that they have the opportunity to beat us today. In fact, they all meet with it. By the way, the actual correction of Klara Motter is about to come, that she was neither my roommate nor my designer. I'm looking forward to what she's going to report. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals.]] I know we were uncomfortable with our special meetings and with the urgent ones. But for whether we have brought in too many, there are only two parameters: One parameter is the law, and according to the law we were allowed to bring it in. The second parameter is the decision of the voters. And if we have really shot at the target, the voters will punish us accordingly. But it is not permissible for us to be taken and shoved by the two parties of government only because we have been nervous about them with our urgent requests and with our special meeting, and that in doing so two of the opposition parties from blind hatred to the liberals, one or the other of them, but perhaps also out of shortsightedness, one or another of them, still lend their hand to this undertaking. Parliament is more than the favorite toy of the opposition, which Klubobmann Khol claimed to be a trend. Parliament is, rather, the field of opposition. The government has much more, the government has all the possibilities: The government has a huge apparatus, it has the officials, the chambers, the media, the economy. The government is well advised in every respect. The opposition only has Parliament or the street, and we do not want to hope that some – not from our party, but from other parties – will use the latter. But if the opposition is circumscribed by parliamentary rights, if it is restricted in this way of making itself felt, and, for example, shortening the speaking time for minutes, it is an undertaking that comes from the hybris. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that you are caught by Hybris. The ancient Greeks were called the feeling of being able to do everything and let it go, Hybris. But the hybris always comes before the case. She will also come to you before the case! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's exactly what happened to you!]] You wouldn't have dared to cross a closed opposition. They have had to buy the two small opposition parties, with a few small sugars, such as a special meeting of the National Council. Otherwise you wouldn't have been able to afford it! The two major parties have committed a sin against democracy and against parliamentarianism, and have for a long time damaged the opposition parties. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I don't know who still sinned!]] And that will, I fear at least, be impossible to repair. You should not change the game rules during the game. You do it continuously. It is not long ago that we have resisted the previous reform of the Rules of Procedure, then with the help of other opposition parties. [[Abg. Wabl: When did you defend yourselves?]] – You must not change the rules of the game. But you do it, and it helps those affected to be shortsighted and hateful. And this is a blow to the face of parliamentarianism and democracy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16194	Mr Magistrate has referred to a corrective motion for a resolution. Barmüller. Please, honourable Member. I refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16218	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ofner now has an allusion to the situation of the 4th. February 1993 means that – I was with him at the time – it was only by my statement the day before that I would not be there the next day to say goodbye to me, his concept. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You can't correct that, I didn't say that!]] Dear Harald! True is rather: I guess there's been this conversation you cut. There was, however, a personal discussion which, first of all, had the reason for my step and, secondly, the consensual resolution of the service relationship. I am sorry that the level that prevailed between us at that time has fallen to such a deep one! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16254	A personal response by Dr. Ofner. - Please. I particularly refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16281	Mr Barmüller has corrected something I did not say: I didn't even mention that this was our last conversation. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: That wasn't our last conversation either!]] I've been talking about him saying: Chef, I'm not here tomorrow. [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And this is wrong, Harald!]] You're not telling me that! You're not telling me that!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16321	Just make a statement and not a discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16337	I'm not here tomorrow. He just said that. And the next day, instead of pursuing legal activities, he held a press conference at the Press Club "Concordia" on the establishment of the Liberal Forum.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16367	Mr President, I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Freshener. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16388	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment on the statements made by Mr Stadler, who could no longer be overcome by levellessness. Nor do I want to address the personal level of Mr Ofner, who, with better knowledge, has said something here from personal discussions. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Rejoice that there is no duel anymore!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Dear Harald! Be glad that I don't give some of the things you told me about your party here the best. These are also realities! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But I insist not on these personal things in public...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16435	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out something: We have previously found in the meeting of the club secretaries and the clubmen that personal accusations have to be maintained. I'm asking you to really keep an eye on this. - Excuse me for interrupting you, honourable Member. Go on. [[Lively calls at the Freeman, the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ.]] I mean everyone, every side.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16464	Mr President. High house! I'd like to hold on to one thing: So far, a single group has acted with personal intervention, one of them! I'd like to hold on to that. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Calls and countercalls at the Freeman and the Liberal Forum.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign.]] However, I still have to deal with Mr Stadler, though for another reason, not because of personal abuses. But one should look at what is hidden behind his style. In fact, he has a particular problem, and this is interesting: If several parties find themselves negotiating, come to a conclusion and then form a majority, then for the Freedom Party this is like a coup, like Parliament lifting. Then they speak of the elimination of the right of speech of the opposition et cetera p.p. The only interesting thing about this is that Klubobmann Stadler has here expressed to the Freedom Party that, if other parties form a majority, it is unbearable for him. Then he leaves in the truest sense of the word, then he can only become more personally insulting and defame other parties. – This is the factual finding, Mr Stadler, to which I come on account of your incredible speech! And that's going to be an overstatement. If a majority is formed in a democratic way, then it is a good thing that Mr Stadler is still threatening with extra-parliamentary actions. – I wonder, then, if I draw this polemic style and the personally defamatory way in the calculation, if one should not see some totalitarian aspects of this speech very precisely. And that's the real problem! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The ÖVP never, if it was in the government, sent the farmers to the street! – The liberal students have gone on the road, not ours!]] Today, Mr Stadler has made a self-demask with his jealous speech. He's gone because other parties have found a consensus that is contrary to his political interests. The liberals can't deal with this. They always want to be alone in what is opposition and what is right. That's the problem you have. This explains this tone, this miserable parliamentary culture and this, Mr Stadler, is an excruciating one. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're at rest!]] I'm not at all, no! Read your speech in the Minutes and be ashamed of this miserable style and the defamatory way! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum and SPÖ.]] But just keep going, you won't get along with it either! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: And you look at the effects of your actions in a few years!]] Yeah, right, right! Next point: The Freedom Party is obviously of the opinion that it has a monopoly on opposition. And, of course, it demands that other opposition parties subordinate themselves to their wishes. That's it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr President. It is not possible to talk when standing calls are made here! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't be so sensitive!]] I'm not at all sensitive! But your parliamentary style is in the anti-parliamentary style, which always appears to you, now through constant interlocutory speeches, for example!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16576	I would like to remind you once again of our meeting! Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16597	Mr President. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that intermediate calls are a right of Members, but not a permanent interlocutory speech. [[Abg. Where's that?]] In addition, Members do not have to sit in a place where they do not belong, like now, Mr Graf. He's supposed to sit down where he belongs! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder gives the bell sign again.]] I now come to another point that is quite interesting. The Freedom Party now presents itself in the speeches as if they were fighting for parliamentaryism, but the same party does not, of course, place great value in its constitutional ideas on Parliament at all. A party observer of this party can stand down and say: 100 are actually enough, but why not only 50 or 20, that would be even more practical and even cheaper! [[Abg. May. Stadler: Teacher! Firlinger is also sitting in the wrong place!]] You know that this Parliament is based on political groups, which are not only supposed to work together, but also have a particular work substance. But, according to the concept of freedom of the Parliament, we could reduce this number, initially to 100 and then perhaps even less. Because Parliament may be annoying if we have a third republic with a Federal Prime Minister. So all you say about parliamentarianism today is sound and smoke. You know very well: You are basically concerned with very different political structures, and that is why I am glad that I am no longer with you, really true! [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, on the Greens and on representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I now come to the content of this reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] I think that it is actually just a compromise, an approach, like all the previous Rules of Procedure reforms. I know that because that's the fourth thing I've been negotiating with. It has always been so, and we should say it quite openly: There are, of course, differences of interest between government and opposition, and, logically, there are contradictions between the opposition parties and perhaps even between the government parties.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16682	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. Please leave blank You really are this kind of calls now!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16697	This is again a demaskation with regard to parliamentary level. Don't do anything! It might be quite good if he keeps doing that! The content of the previous Rules of Procedure reforms must be taken into account. Follow the procedure exactly: There were reforms in 1961, 1966, 1975, 1988 and 1993. And, of course, the changed political conditions played a role each time. Of course, there was an eternal call for the increase in opposition rights and for the strengthening of the rights of the individual political groups, especially the small ones. And now I say it again, colleagues from the Freedom Party: Every time there were small steps, there was a compromise every time, and that is why I stress that this diffamation of the compromise is bothering me so much. In fact, it shows a lack of democratic, parliamentary working and attitude. That's the essential! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You've been pulled over the table!]] All the regulatory reforms are, of course, about matters of power and the public role of Parliament. There have always been the most difficult negotiations, because there were logical interests. From this point of view, let us consider whether this reform of the Rules of Procedure has come out for Parliament or not: I would like to admit that many things I would like to have been unenforceable, perhaps also the interlocutory speech, Mr Stadler, that is quite possible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This wish comes from the SPÖ and your wife Schmidt!]] It's completely indifferent. Maybe that's a good idea. But there is not everything on the Christian tree when you believe in majority democracy. – If one believes that one is alone in power or is the right opinion alone, then it is also different if one has the power. But if we in Parliament are committed to cooperation and, as a smaller or larger party, to the negotiation process and want to achieve something, then we can either reject results or agree to them. But you must not defame, Mr Stadler! That's not good! And the public too will follow very, very closely how a party behaves in this regard. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Let us now look at whether this reform of the Rules of Procedure has gotten something out of the way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Because of all my written and also oral comments, you can't even blame me for having changed my mind! [[Abg. Haigermoser: Not just once!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] No, no, not once. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the newspaper article I have here, you can read the answer!]] Firstly, such a reform of the Rules of Procedure should be considered in the light of whether or not Parliament's legislative function has been looked out or not. And now I would like to remind the liberals of a situation in the last Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in which there was a very good example of what this reform of the Rules of Procedure corrects. A free request, which went far beyond what the government had presented, had already been gathered to negotiate with the government day-to-day regulation point. In the vote he was included in the government document and in the plenary session he was also discussed. – That’s really one of the very large parliamentary scandals: that opposition applications, which are the content of proposals for initiative, have usually suffered such a third-class funeral! This is what we have changed through this reform of the Rules of Procedure. For the first time, there is the possibility that oppositional requests to the Committee for individual consideration and voting will be available in plenary as a separate item on the agenda and that this procedure will be enforceable within one year. This is a major step forward in Parliament's efforts to strengthen the content of its work, particularly with regard to opposition applications. For example, that was very, very important to me. You know! [[Congratulations on Liberal Forum.]] Why? Because I believe that Parliament has a very central task, namely to bring to the public political alternatives that are being discussed, and thus to give the public the opportunity to get a picture of content positions. That is also Parliament's task. This has so far been too short, and this has been greatly improved here. A second point: We have achieved something very good in this reform of the Rules of Procedure, namely that there is not only an urgent question which controls, in particular, from the opposition to control the government, to attack it. I feel the further development that we now also have an urgent request, where the opposition groups can confront a government with a concern for content on the point, can demand a positioning of it, also for a very, very substantial further development of the subject matter of parliamentaryism. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] A third point. It has almost been Parliament's practice since we were a member of the European Union, but I still hold it as a merit of the time when the great coalition had no two-thirds majority, that we were able to enforce at that time, that in EU matters, Parliament can give the government's orders in terms of content and that this should be formulated on the main committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: When was that?]] That happened several times, you obviously weren't inside. And above all, it is the opportunity to make a very significant contribution to policy through Parliament in the form of EU policy participation. And he who knows the main committee and the debates there knows that there are many things that we are logically criticizing, especially the question: What topics are there? But it is really an essential extension of parliamentary rights in the field of implementation, because foreign policy – and that is exactly what EU policy still has to some degree – is an implementation story. And that this has been successful is also a merit of the voters, because at the time of the two-thirds majority abolition of the opposition, he has made it possible to enforce it at all. That's the one point. The second is that we can conduct this debate publicly. It is essential that these decisions can also be brought to light in a media publication. That seems to me to be very important. As I even think, this reform of the Rules of Procedure will bring about an increase in public awareness. For it is now possible that expert hearings are made available to the media in committees, it is now possible for the Enquete Commissions et cetera, it will be possible to consult the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Scheibner: With majority decision!]] Yes, it may be that perhaps one or the other is not that way in our mind. But, Mr Scheibner, get your hands on this: They are steps, relatively big steps, in the right direction. And this is the springing point that I believe that this reform of the Rules of Procedure, the opening of committees, in part to the public, will lead to a substantial increase in committees, giving the character of the working party a substantial political edge. Because that's the essential thing. In fact, I believe that where the public is involved, a government party can no longer afford to deal with opinions expressed, for example by experts, simply sing and soundlessly. At least you have to argue. And this is the essential force of argumentation, which is produced by this opening of committees, for example, in the reports et cetera. And that is, in turn, an essential progress of parliamentarianism. [[Accompaniment at the Liberal Forum and Abg. Wabl.]] Now to the control rights. If one listens to the contributions to the free speech, then one almost has the impression that it will eliminate its position and parliamentary control at all. Something has already happened, of course, I admit that openly and honestly. The Freedom Party assumes that the means of opposition are actually there for them. It doesn't matter to the others. I am asking: If the development of rights were so important, had there been any idea from the liberal side that would have taken into account that there were other opposition groups? That was like, of course: We have these rights, it has also become stronger for the Freedom Party, and you do not care about the small groups. [[Abg. Scheibner: But that was your concern too! You were for the abolition of these possibilities!]] Momenterl! Nothing's done, but it's just your imagination! Nothing will be done! But something has been achieved: that other opposition groups can also benefit more from these parliamentary control rights. That was our interest, but it was also in Parliament's interest. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You've been talking four times as long as you're allowed!]] That's my right! Mr Ofner, that is my right! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You do it, your right!]] It's possible. But it's my right. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: You take away your right yourself!]] I speak 17 minutes now, so I even stick to the future speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: There are only five minutes!]] No, no, no, But now again to the control rights, Mr Ofner. Back to the control rights. There is, of course, a contrast in the interests between a larger opposition party and a smaller one. It is our natural right to improve our political instruments. And now to the special sessions. In fact, at the special meetings, the following happened: The special meetings have not, in practice, been required for their original purpose, namely that an extraordinary situation requires parliamentary debate and decision-making. That's the meaning of special meetings. In the case of the liberals, the special meetings – I would baptize them once – have become super urgent. If you look at the urgent ones when you look at the various rights of question and control, then it is certainly true that the special session of the urgents has been mutated to super-necessary ones you have used in your matters. That's what it was. Your right and your right, of course. But if you develop it so further, please understand that we are saying: Why not other opposition groups, too? That is why we have implemented this regulation. I am glad, now we have this opportunity, and it is a strengthening of parliamentary control – not necessarily of the liberals. But you are not alone in opposition, and you are not alone in control. It's others, too. We now have these instruments. We have defamed the government parties, and that is a good thing. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] As the last point at the speaking time. Of course, there is hypocrisy, as not so soon again. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: 22 minutes and is for shortening!]] Yes, Mr. Ofner, it's like this: If, like today, you use the urgent instrument – completely legal, but I would say it is embarrassing – so if the referee law is on the agenda and you put the urgent ones on the same subject on the same day, then exactly that is where I say...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16929	Ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e16956	It has become clear that I have the right to continue speaking. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Once he's glad he's allowed to talk!]] I would like to point out here again: Here, in turn, is a harassous abuse of the permanent call, but so you are stopped. That is why I would like to say once again at the speaking time: The essential thing I believe is that we are honest with the limit on speaking time. Modern parliamentarism does not exist in battles with a permanent competition. It is simply more reasonable for us today to take a closer look at the discussions when the opinions differ more quickly and these discussions are being dealt with in the form of debate and not in the form of a permanent debate. It's an old fight. Of course you can say: The honourable Member's freedom of speech is boundless. But it is not parliamentary, and it is quite clear that of course... [[Abg. Haigermoser: Endless were the Greens!]] May be: It is clear that the parliamentary debate and the public, which is to start a debate, are doing well if we take a closer look at it. And these time limits are cutbacks, they are not at least a abolition of freedom of speech, but they are reforms in terms of speaking time, as has been largely enforced internationally. This is a massive exaggeration and, of course, is not a constructive contribution at all. All the Members who sit in here have complained once or many times: What are these endless speeches for? I think that short speaking times have failed, are parliamentary, are more political and public-friendly. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: Of course, this is not the big Parliamentary reform, of course it is not a revision of the Rules of Procedure, where I say that all the essential wishes are already fulfilled. But there are steps in the right direction for a more public-friendly Parliament, for a Parliament that brings more plurality to opposition and control rights, and finally for a Parliament which is more transparent and comprehensible to the public, just for citizens. These are essential points that have been enforced in this reform of the Rules of Procedure, and we will therefore agree to them.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17007	Mr Scheibner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17029	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I was already somewhat surprised by the comments made by Mr Freshenschlager, because I can still remember his really good speeches which he has given here, particularly on matters relating to the Constitution of Parliamentaryism and, above all, the Rules of Procedure. It's been a while, though. He was still with another group at the time, perhaps he saw something else. It is strange that the change of colors also conforms to the change of opinion as quickly as possible. I regret that, Mr Freizenschlager, because you have been a model with these speeches, and you have done so in a way that makes sense. And it has always been one of the content of your speeches on the Rules of Procedure: that the opposition is, of course, a minority in this Parliament and that the fundamental rights of opposition, the control rights, must therefore also be minority rights. - Good, you nod. But now – and you have admitted it yourself – we have the fact, even more so than before, that the most serious control rights, the most serious rights to operate parliamentaryism here alone, are majority rights. And on the contrary: All these questions with the urgent, with the special sessions, have all become majority rights. The majority of Parliament, while these restrictions are being introduced for the opposition, can use these instruments freely and without restrictions. Mr Fischler, has all this been avoided from you that these control rights are suddenly granted to the majority without any restriction and are increasingly restricted in the opposition? - But I'm still coming. I would just like to comment on one more point. If you have pointed out that Mr Stadler has announced that, if one is no longer speaking here in Parliament, one must stop taking action outside Parliament in order to raise awareness of the concerns, I would ask, Mr Freshenschlager, who, for example, has organized strikes and demonstrations on the streets with the left student organizations. That's where I ask you, my colleague, when you're sitting in a boat with the government parties and with the greens, who has always threatened and, in part, has implemented it to bring the farmers to the street with their tractors? That's where I remember you. [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Me? (Allah) Who!]] You're sitting with them in a boat, then you'll criticize it once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] All of a sudden, this is not against parliamentarianism, which is not dangerous to the state, which you have now accused us of. You also do not find it dangerous and anti-democratic, if there are threats that the workers or the union will go to the streets, or – also sitting in your boat – if the Green Opera Ball demonstrations are organized. I have also not heard a word of criticism – since we are so often talking about the abuse of the rights of parliamentarians – that we have discussed once again the state-bearing question of the Jew, I do not know, it was 40 hours, 50 hours. I say it was all right for us to have discussed this, because that was the right of a group to use the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure at the time – I said "at that time" – but to use them. We have never said that this is a misuse. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We did not object, but voted against!]] So, I think it's clear now, too. [[Abg. Wabl: 1988 you agreed!]] Mr Wabl, this use of the Rules of Procedure or the use of the Rules of Procedure was not 1988, but it was later when I was allowed to help you with this. We did not talk about abuse at the time, although we can also discuss whether it is useful for the Rules of Procedure of Parliamentaryism to debate over the 40 or 50 hours of jute here in this House. [[Abg. Wabl: You have slandered about the abuse!]] And now, although everyone is talking about more rights for Parliament, Mr Cap, for example, when he talks about the references to Parliament, he also talks about upgrading Parliament, more rights for parliamentarians, and then there is a reform of the Rules of Procedure, where there are fewer meetings, where there will be fewer debates and shorter debates and, above all, where there will be shorter speeches and where the possibility of real control instruments and proper debates about them will be cut to almost impossible. This is the reality when we talk about parliamentarianism and more rights for parliamentarians, ladies and gentlemen. And there, my colleague, fresheners, she agrees. You will have your reasons. It is clear, of course, that, as an opposition group, we are now voting for the majority in Parliament to be granted more rights, then this is perhaps unwarranted, because one may have in mind the fact that one may soon have at least the goal of belonging to this majority by being able to form a government in a coalition with other political groups in this House. That is what I am saying here in the ranks of the EIA, because you have become so excited and because you have laughed so much about this whole debate and are now finding everything in order, ladies and gentlemen of the EIA. I remember very well, too. I was not in this House at the time, but I can well remember what debates were taking place and how you used the possibilities of the Rules of Procedure as an opposition group. [[Abg. May. Dr. Fekter: But not abused!]] If a German Chancellor's or a Minister's speech to the opposition had been made in such a tone as it has been today, what would have happened in this House? There would have been a interrupting of the sitting, there would have been no need for such statements as Mr Kostelka's in order to interrupt the sitting, because this Parliament still had a self-confidence with the government at that time. You didn't like all of this. There was pride, both in the majority group and in the minority groups, in having rights to the government here, that one is legislative here, that there is a separation of power here, that one has self-confident Members here. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This seems to have been lost in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. And in general, the things that have become annoying will become annoying because they were used – not exploited, but used – to show your mistakes, Mrs Mertel. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Mertel]] And do not say that these special sessions have been or have been useless. [[Abg. Leikam: Abuse!]] In your eyes the abuse was, of course. Because, of course, you don't want to give your finger to your wounds and perhaps still scatter salt and see what's going on in this country. [[Abg. Böhacker: You just want to cover!]] Yes, what were the special sessions we requested from the "consumer" to the "foreigner" policy and and and what? These were all important questions! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would remind you, Mr Leikam, and I would remind you, Mrs Fekter, that in 1994 and 1995, you were glad that we asked for special meetings and that we had to take urgent action. You would not even have put an agenda together at the time, because you could not agree on any of the proposals! That's how reality has been! That would have made your inability to act even more evident to the population, if not the liberals with the special sessions and with the urgent questions had determined the events in Parliament! Of course, this has been unpleasant to you, that is quite clear! Just as you are uncomfortable that investigation committees can at least be requested. I can still remember the Greens and Liberals asking: The right to set up a committee of inquiry must become a minority right. – Yes, wonderful, we would have supported the demand that we all heard. Not only will it not be a minority right, but it will also limit the speaking time and the number of speakers. That's what you've done! And that's where you say, my dear colleague, a step in the right direction. Well, if you go back as you seem, maybe you'll get back to the origins of your political activity. We'll take a closer look at all of this; There are already examples from your group. Ladies and gentlemen! We take note of this, of course, and we also note that Parliament does not make laws. This has also led us very honestly once in a constitutional committee a few years ago when the Civil Service Law was passed. There was such a package on the table, and the opposition meant in the Constitutional Committee that one had to form a subcommittee, that one had to make amendments and hold a proper discussion. [[shows hands a distance of about 20 centimetres]] That is what Mr Khol, then the Constitutional Spokesman, said: Yes, it might be useful, and you should actually do that, but that is not the case, because this Civil Service Law is negotiated by the social partners and we must not change anything more, because if we tie up the package, all of this goes back, and we cannot do that. It's wonderful! That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. As Members of this House go down, we demand more rights for Parliament, and then we hear in the committees that, as elected parliamentarians, as the people responsible, we are not even able to make laws here – I say not to even make laws, but to change laws, even though those who have brought them in are of the opinion that this would be necessary. – So laws are not made in Parliament. But now it will not even be possible to discuss it in detail, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that is another low point in the history of the Austrian Parliament. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It can be discussed, Mr Frischenschlager, of course, that smaller groups should also have the opportunity to convene special meetings, to extend the rights of urgent questions to smaller groups, to discuss everything, to extend Parliament's control rights, to extend minority rights, and, above all, to extend control rights, to become a real minority right. You can discuss all of this. But now you are glad that you can hold a special meeting in the year, and then you forget everything else. Everything else that's going to be circumcised on opposition rights here is forgotten. The most important thing is that we have taken out a special meeting so that we do not go down in reporting as it has been in the past. However, I do not think that the non-observance in the public has anything to do with special meetings being held here, but it has to do with the policy that is being held here in permanence. And there will be nothing for you to benefit from a special meeting! [[Congratulations on the liberal.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No laws are made, no debates will be held on the rounds, and we could have discussed the speaking time. Yes, of course, even with urgent requests, it is possible to discuss whether the 20. Speakers should have another 15 minutes of speaking time. But what you are doing here is not only cutting the duration of the speaking time, but also cutting the number of speakers in these control rights. And I think that's so serious. I believe, and if someone has a speaking time of 5 minutes, that every Member in this House who is responsible for the people's actions must be given the opportunity to speak, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It cannot be that, after two or three speakers, the debates are over and everyone else can only sit there and listen. These are Parliament's rights, Mr Frischenschlager, and this is going to be cut in a truly blatant way! And, finally, maybe: If Mr Kostelka has been praised here that the control committees – if I already hear this: the control committees – must meet the intelligence services on a quarterly basis instead of six months, I must say: That's really not an improvement. As long as we do not ensure that we do not have a proper procedure in these committees, as long as we do not make sure what is being reported there, we can make a committee every week. That doesn't matter at all. For when I read the supposedly secret in a newspaper the next day, when I read that the Minister, who has previously committed all of us to silence by his report, gives us a press conference the next day, where he informs the public of exactly the same content, we can all abolish these committees, because then we have only one problem: What do we do with this all-world information, since we have actually been committed to silence? So there's a lot of issues, of problems that it's really worth discussing. And, Mr Fischenschlager, perhaps one more thing at the end. You said: Yes, please, it's in a democracy once. There have been a number of political groups, there has been a majority, and that is what it is now. That is also interesting: the rules of the game that we decide here for Parliament. And that's what I heard from you. So now it's just like this: The majority determines the minority. - Wonderful! Next time we will limit the speaking time to one minute, to one speaker per item on the agenda, and you will also say that the majority has decided on the minority. – Wonderful, this will be the parliamentaryism of the future, if you are really inside this government. That's what we're going to look at. Thank God there is still the voter's regulation, and he will certainly speak the last word here.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17201	The next speaker is Mr Wabl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17222	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A reform of the Rules of Procedure is actually one of the most difficult, especially if there is a political group that believes that the rules of the game should only be observed for so long as they benefit from them. Ladies and gentlemen! I would have liked to see a result in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure with the liberals. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Stop!]] You don't need to believe that, it's not necessary. Only one problem, Mr Bauer, is that if an instrument is used here in this House for so long in a way that it is not only unbearable for the government parties but also for the other opposition parties. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Jute-Red!]] Mr Stadler said a very correct word: Parliament becomes a facade. But he meant something else. What has been done here in recent months by the leader of the party, Haider, during the urgent questions, at the special meetings, was a clear degradation of the entire house into a facade for his beer house spectacle. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haider has come into this house for 40 minutes, has made the government contemptible – now one can say, well, as an opposition one can be pleased that Mr. Haider gives it properly to the Vranitzky and other members of the government – but you have not only made the government contemptible, but you have made all the other speakers and all the other opposition parties despicable. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: You're talking like a mandatory defender!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where's the good old Wabl!]] And then, after speaking for 40 minutes, Mr. Haider thought: Now I'm going to play tennis, the media are gone, look, it's over anyway. Thank you, it's enough. Now I can go. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where is the Voggenhuber?]] And then, so that the whole thing is still being pushed to the top, there has been information in the FPÖ club for speaker training. Then one after another had to go down from the liberals and continue to play this humiliation. Ladies and gentlemen! I have always been a fundamental opponent of time limits and still have serious concerns. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We will survive!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ofner! You voted for the time limits in 1988, you voted in 1993... [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: No! I have always talked about it and always voted against it!]] Mr. Ofner! Maybe you're a person. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Here you can claim what you want!]] I've got the protocol here. Look, here, Mr Freshenschlager, at the time her colleague, gave a brilliant speech for the reduction of speaking time. Then it says: "Applause with FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP." [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Yes, congratulations! I voted against!]] I cannot imagine that at the time Mr Freshenschlager was an opposition speaker and spoke massively against the government parties. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But the Harald Ofner voted against it!]] Maybe you voted against it as a person. All due respect. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: From self-sustaination!]] From self-sustaination. Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at what has now happened to the time limits, I have to say: If the liberals continue to run on their course, excessive use of the Rules of Procedure, contempt for all and everyone, except for the liberals, then we will still arrive at twelve hours a day. I'm asking you if this is the standard workday for you? I ask you whether Parliamentaryism is, especially if in these twelve hours almost exclusively You party leader Haider proclaiming the all-inspiring truths? Mr. Ofner! [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I would be grateful if you could say that this is not all directed against us!]] No, that's not all against you! First of all, I'm just talking about what hurts me. I would have liked to see the government parties and you, too, of the liberals, seeing it with more serenity than the Greens wanted to torpedo a law with filibuster speeches which they thought was devastating. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] I would also have called for more serenity when their party observer made the whole house contemptible, because I believe that democracy must endure it. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I do not think much of the fact that Mr Haider and your party chairman only use this House more as a stage to inform people about the media in the short term, what he thinks about the world, and also tell this House how inadequate it is and how inferior the other opposition parties are. – This mentality is well expressed in the excellent term "Appendix Parties". Mr Ofner! I take it from you that you were against it at the time. But I do not take you into account that in your own group you have opposed the fact that this type of dispute prevails in this House. Ladies and gentlemen! In the current negotiations, we have achieved very, very much of what you sold in 1988 and 1993 and have given it very cheaply. We have already negotiated in 1993 the public of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. But what did you do? – You have reselled and agreed to a few requests for this consensus result. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I know for myself what I did!]] Mr Ofner! I'm not taking this from you. We have now achieved – and this is uniquely – this reform of the Rules of Procedure that the committees can rule in the public. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That this can be decided by the majority!]] Mr Ofner! Of course I would have preferred to see it if the public had been automatically possible, no question at all! Mr Ofner! [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] However, there is a two-thirds majority of the ÖVP and SPÖ. And you'll explore the situation if you think the public is a corrective in this case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Why do you think the public is being introduced at all? Because at the time the Federal Chancellor was also sitting in the Court of Auditors and it was unbearable for many of the government parties that the media were waiting in front of the door and there were different opinions from the individual Members so that they had to think it had been different events. In view of the pressure of the public, the chancellors and the government parties had to see that only the public was able to remedy it. [[Further call of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] I'm right now, Mr. Ofner. Of course, the government parties can say: No, we do not want a public in this Committee on the Court of Auditors. – What happens to the public in your opinion? [[Abg. Apple Basin: Nothing at all!]] Of course, you feel that nothing is happening, because the public you are talking about does not say anything. It's enough if she can listen to what your party leader says. But there is a public that is very sensitive, a public that is discussing what is happening here in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Mr Bauer! There is a public that is very sensitive to what is being discussed here in this House and what is being done here in these committees. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Contenance, Mr. Wabl!]] Mrs Apfelbeck! Mr Haider and Mr Stadler complained that the debate in the Court of Auditors had been restricted to 10 minutes. – You have apparently not read the law. That is to say, it is to be limited. And do you know why the law says "sol"? – Because in the future we will have the public and some of the opposition’s representatives – and unfortunately you do – speak for their first speech not only 10 minutes or a quarter of an hour, but 30 minutes. And all the other Members must wait for courtesy until you finally finish. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: This superiority is unbearable!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Apple beck.]] Mrs Apfelbeck! You can talk again for 10 minutes and 10 minutes and 10 minutes again. Only within a round, Mrs Applebeck, is there a small correction! I know that it is difficult for you to get to the brink of a committee with all the questions that anyone is writing to you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Ofner! It is simply not tolerable if you believe that this house must serve you as a stage alone, and everything else must be adapted, compatible and and and. [[Further call of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Mr Ofner! That's not the point at all! We now have the public in the main committee, we have the public in the polls, we have the public in the committees when things are done. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: But only because of a majority decision!]] Yes, of course, because of a majority decision. I admit that I would have liked more. I would have liked to have the Committee on Inquiry with a quarter of a minority quo. I would have liked to have had the last time that the Court of Auditors could determine the minority. But why isn't that going on? – Because your group orders information that will not then be questioned. Then ten people are sitting in the Court of Auditors, including people who have arrived from Innsbruck or Linz et cetera, but you are already going home or going to play tennis with your party leader. – This is the problem, and this is unbearable for government parties! [[Congratulations on the Greens, the Liberal Forum and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Leikam: That's it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Apfelbeck! They have no interest in the majority of applications, no interest at all in their being negotiated. For these applications are usually only for you to be able to represent what you want. We have now enforced - and this has already been said by my colleague Mr Freshenschlager - that, at last, applications cannot be automatically reduced, but that they must also be dealt with and finished here in this House. And if this is the case, the government will have to comment on it. So far, all our applications have been postponed or sunk somewhere. You know the ritual. You have not resisted, however, that you have not even made a request in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that it will be changed. I can't remember Mr Stadler wanting any change in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen! We have, of course, – and I am right in giving you – tried to find an efficient instrument in the intelligence committees. But, Mr Scheibner, how many times have you made a request there so that the documents are published? [[Abg. Scheibner: In each committee we have put forward proposals]] – Mr. Anschober always tells me: There is always someone sleeping there, Mr Scheibner, who never comes in at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: How can Anschober tell something from the committee?]] There should be some cooperation within the opposition! That is why I am glad, Mr Scheibner, that at last there is a little public in the committees. Mr Scheibner. Because if the plenary is the only place to the public, it is obvious to you that if your party leader gives great speeches here. But if there is public in the committees, then it will depend on what each or every one of you submits to requests. And I am also convinced that the individual Members of Parliament must also make greater efforts by the government parties. Then this committee could actually become a working committee. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: Who must strive?]] Mr Meischberger! [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: This is interesting!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Scheibner. You meant today at the special meetings... [[Abg. Scheibner: Always accuse us of infringing the silence! So, what does Anschober tell you about the intelligence committee?]] Nothing! Perhaps it is subject to data protection that you sleep there. I don't think so. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler said in his negative report or minority report that in future there will be no compelling finalisation. - That's a shitty nonsense! He didn't read the law! Mr Stadler also said that, in connection with the Committee of Inquiry, there will no longer be any debate. – Either he misunderstands the law or he has not read it. Mr Stadler also said that it is incredible and negative that in future Saturdays and Sundays and holidays will no longer be included in the deadline. Do you know who this proposal came from? – By Mr Stadler! He submitted a request to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. This request is from him. And now, in his comment in the minority report, he complains that this has been introduced. Who's the minority report of? – By Brauneder, Haupt and Stadler. Mr Stadler also claims that the permanent subcommittees for the control of state police and intelligence activities are too rare to meet. However, there is no request from the Liberals in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I do not know whether there will be such a request here. Mrs. Apfelbeck! I can guarantee you that You ask in detail in the Court of Auditors' Committee and we will be able to negotiate in detail there. But one thing I can't guarantee you: That you can be the only one to talk there. That won't be possible. Mr Haider tried this, but it is not possible. Mr Stadler also believes that the Structural Adjustment Act could be adopted in the future in one day. – That’s just wrong! Either he has not read the law, or he deliberately spreads untruths here. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider this compromise to be a step in the direction of more control in certain areas. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: We already heard that!]] I wish I had more. I believe that the question of time limits has already been decided in 1988 and 1993. We are heading in the direction of handling in the European Parliament or in other parliaments, for example in the German Parliament. I think this is a problem. I'd rather if we could talk here longer. There are basically some improvements. In my view, the deterioration is that we can only negotiate for more than twelve hours a day in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer.]] Mr Bauer! I do not want to read to you the speeches of the Freedom Party which contain insults about our filibuster speeches. I want to save you this. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: But you did it like that!]] Of course we did! However, I would also like to give you a lecture on the great praises of the President of Parliament in 1993 and of Mr Frisenschlager in 1988. The Green Group agrees with this new Rules of Procedure, because we believe that this will make progress, because it is no longer reasonable for us to sit here for days and nights and agitate ourselves in a way that is unbearable. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: A confession is not a cause of relief!]] Mr. Ofner! They were the only ones who always voted against it. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's not true! I just talked about it!]] But your whole group has always voted in favour. We will see how these instruments will affect in the next few years. Mrs Applebeck will surely tell you how successful the improvements have been. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17722	The next item is Mrs Apfelbeck. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17743	Mr President. First of all, I would like to correct Mr Wabl. He meant that I would ask my questions in committee and then play tennis. I'll put it right: That's not true because I can't play tennis at all. It is true, rather, that Mr Wabl has not come to the last committee of the Court of Auditors at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where was he?]] After waiting five minutes, we had to run the Court of Auditors' own meeting. And that the people, Mr Wabl, did not come to the question, this is your committee's leadership and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: If Wabl holds the presidency, then chaos reigns!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendment of the Rules of Procedure is the act of an absolute ruler, and so do you. It is equal to an act of abolition of freedom of expression. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Who wrote you this speech?]] It is an act which, at least in Austria, is very close to democracy. And you have to be responsible for this from the small parties! The great coalition was able to implement the reform of the Rules of Procedure with the help of the small opposition parties. You are involved in your own abolition, and you must also be responsible for it outside your electorate, Mr Wabl. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For me, the question is: At what price did the great coalition buy you the rope with which it will gnaw you and then us? [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: With whom will she hang you?]] I don't want to go that far! What can be so valuable that a political opposition party in a free democracy sells its democratic rights of freedom, those democratic rights of freedom, of which a democratic opposition lives at all? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wabl.]] Mr Wabl! You were talking before! You can, if you want, report again! The taxpayer gives his voice, as I believe, to an opposition party of his choice so that it looks at the governor and prevents too big an economy with its tax money. It is precisely this control option, ladies and gentlemen, that is restricted by the new Rules of Procedure, and you are responsible for that. I cannot and will not assume that the Court of Auditors of the European Union is so naive and does not understand this, ladies and gentlemen. I refer now to the legislative amendment which concerns the Court of Auditors, whose chairman you are, Mr Wabl. The public can be decided, but it does not have to be decided, and it will only be decided if the great coalition also allows it. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a pure eye-retardant, nothing at all! You just want to raise the appearance that you open, in reality you won't do that! Question Time in the Court of Auditors is limited by 10 minutes. This is also an act that very strongly closes democracy in Austria. There are only more than 10 minutes of questionable rights in relation to the most scandalous abuse of taxpayers' money. And only if the rulers allow it, can the public know what happens to their tax money! The sentence of the Green Cubob woman that the recent draft laws – and in fact the Spesenserordnung – discredit the work of the decent parliamentarians, apply equally to the vote of the Greens on this amendment of the Rules of Procedure. From the Liberal Forum I can rather understand the consent to their own abolition: They're just so liberal that they're getting rid of themselves!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17855	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. Speech time: Maximum 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17876	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the new Rules of Procedure are good, that they will contribute to the creation of a more living Parliament and also to the possibility of more people actually taking the floor. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We thought that was your opinion.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in particular, has found very tough words here against these new Rules of Procedure. This is likely to be a bit of a fact that you are annoyed at the fact that the five political groups have four of them on the subject of the agreement on the reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: We are pleased that we are demarcating ourselves!]] In addition, you may also be annoyed because – although you cannot admit it – because some of you will have the suspicion that you yourself owe the whole thing a biterl, because you have overturned with special sessions, urgent requests et cetera. And whenever you feel guilty in your innermost self, you get angry twice when something certain occurs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We're not annoyed, we're outraged!]] I believe that this is also a bit of a case with you. But you will certainly not be able to admit that. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: How can a Member feel guilty for parliamentary activities?]] I don't know if you can feel guilty! But you may be annoyed! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also a question of attitude and morality whether one has guilt. But let's leave it. The question that really needs to be asked is: Is the concern that shorter speaking times will lead to what my predecessor called the abolition of democratic speech? Is a shorter speaking time, as your first speaker said, a step in the direction of not wanting to let someone talk at all? – I think it would be wrong to say that the fact that one can talk for a long time necessarily means more democracy. I believe that the question is whether one has the opportunity to express one's opinion at all, and what time is the appropriate time for illuminating a point in Parliament, to ask a question et cetera. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: What if everyone speaks shorter voluntarily?]] In almost all Parliaments, it is from the earlier form that long, beautiful speeches have been made, which were then also published in the collected speeches and writings of prominent parliamentarians, that a shorter presentation has been made. First of all, this allows for a stronger interlocutory speech, and second, more people are given the opportunity to participate in a debate. In the European Parliament and in almost all national parliaments, the speaking time is between 5 and 10 minutes in debates. And this is usually enough, perhaps not in any case for the first speaker, but there is so much time for you to formulate a thought, bring a circle of listeners closer and express your attitude. – In my opinion, that is the essential thing. The reality today is not just what is really happening. The picture of reality also becomes reality itself very often in this media society. And this replay of reality shortens the speeches by a lot. In principle, therefore, it would be sufficient to say a succinct sentence here from the speaker's desk. Because more is not going through newspapers or television or radio. Of course, we don't want to go that far. But I think it is good if we offer the opportunity to express our opinion in brief contributions. This, of course, requires the free speech of the previous speaker and other interested people. I think the concern you have is really not justified. Rather, this reform will lead to a better classification of work, to a more reasonable course of meetings, to a better debate and therefore also to a better parliamentary culture as a whole with more opportunities for the individual Members. And that's why we're for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to make two further brief comments: I think we should also consider how we can improve technical possibilities in the future. I think the processes of today have again shown that with an automatic voting system some would probably be even clearer, faster and better to make. Now I'm still outside my private opinion. I am not speaking on behalf of the Group, because this has not yet been debated. I personally also believe that we should consider... [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: There is another possibility! We shall take the vote by name.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I want to end my thoughts! Please don't bother me now! You can call afterwards! . I believe that it would also be important to consider whether that in-depth voting process in laws, i.e. that slave holding – as I would like to call it – is really necessary to kelsenian entities. Many other parliaments make this much easier and also come to laws, and the state also works. I therefore believe that we should continue to talk about it in peace and quiet for the future. With all the improvements in employment opportunities, including the Members of Parliament in recent years, with these Rules of Procedure and with further considerations, we will certainly come to a Parliament that can do its work better. And if Parliament does its work better, it is also better for a state and for a democracy!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e17997	Mr Krüger spoke as the next speaker. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18018	Mr President. High house! Mr Schieder's very well-known words have been admirably heard. However, you, Mr Schieder, are not in line with the reform of the Rules of Procedure, as it stands today at second reading and on Thursday in third reading on the decision-making process. For, ladies and gentlemen, this reform of the Rules of Procedure is nothing but a criminal expedition of the government parties with the representatives of the Liberal Forum and the Greens towards the Freeman. It is – and this has been granted in all openness – an opportunity legislation to prevent the liberals from exercising minority rights under the Rules of Procedure in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Something is strange: It is precisely on the occasion of today's special meeting that very essential matters relating to us parliamentarians are dealt with. Nevertheless, no one from the government parties has come only in the slightest approach to say that this session is essential today. This is therefore an irony because today's special session clearly shows the importance of this minority right in the Rules of Procedure, under which one fifth of the Members are given the opportunity to request a special session. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is not only about today's special session, which was very lively and interesting and is being held in connection with very essential legislative instruments, but also about other special sessions. I am thinking, for example, of the fact that, during the last legislative period, it was due to a special meeting of the Freedom Party that Mr Primar Poigenfürst could continue his service in the hospital and was not sent to forced retirement. Thus, over time, during the course of the session, the special meetings have resulted in the disfavor and envy of the other so-called opposition parties, because the government parties have always been forced to take special meetings. Ladies and gentlemen! I guarantee you one: If the Group of the European People's Party had not initiated today's special session, you can be sure that today's completely unbearable first draft of the Club members Kostelka and Khol on the reform of relations would have been negotiated and decided and not in the version of the amendment. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But no!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't overestimate yourself!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: This is an immeasurable self-esteem!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If one reads the report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, one can read in the preamble that there are supposed to be new opportunities for minorities to shape the parliamentary procedure. It is then argued that the reduction of access requirements to the request for a special meeting would create better access to parliamentarianism. It is explained here in the preamble that new opportunities are being created for minorities, but on the other hand it is very noble and only in parenthesis that one of the most important minority rights, namely that one fifth of the Members of the House can apply for a special session, is simply abolished in a cold fashion. [[Abg. Wormitzer: That's not true at all! That's not true at all!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is, of course, already a question of what circumstances the Liberals and Greens, who are now only now represented by a participant here in the House, have caused them to agree. [[Abg. May. Kammerlander: That's enough!]] Mrs. Colleague! You're going to give me that little sidebrow. For if, from his point of view, Mr Wabl has objected to the fact that some Members are not there, you will already have the right to show and dispute this problem of the lack of the presence of the Liberal Forum Members, but above all of the Greens. I guess this will be allowed here. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Barmüller: And if we were only half as long here, it would be more than the Haider!]] It really raises the question here, which can cause an opposition to agree to such a partial espionage of the liberal opposition. If you think about it, then, of course, circumstances of the parliamentary process are also included in the previous legislative period. You can certainly remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in the last legislative period there has been a circumcision of the rights of opposition, which was the abolition of the position of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors by a two-thirds majority of Parliament by federal constitutional law. In the last legislative period, the government parties, since they did not have the two-thirds majority at the time, had to insist that either the Greens or the Liberals or both, as is usually the case, actually agree. At the time, this was really inconceivable to all democrats and all those associated with the parliamentary values of democracy that two opposition parties wanted to abolish the important function of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors. For I do not need to explain to you that the Court of Auditors is an aid body of the Parliament and it is natural that the opposition must be made to ensure that the Court of Auditors is able to carry out its work in an unblemished manner, even in a personless manner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We asked the question then in the debate, what is the Juden wage for You want to cut down the opposition rights here, although you are supposed to be in opposition yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: "Judaslaan" – this is such a reverent language! It's unbearable!]] Perhaps this was also part of the overall package, ladies and gentlemen, because during the last legislative period, too, we have encountered the fact that we have convened special meetings for freedom. You have apparently been promised that the rights of the Greens and the Liberals will be exercised in a reform of the Rules of Procedure at the expense of the liberal opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Fischer, too, would be right here, and I am very excited to see what he will find for words in his comment, which will undoubtedly come out of the new Rules of Procedure or the new Rules of Procedure, namely words of explanation. What does the legislator think, Mr Fischer, when a provision is introduced regarding the convening of special meetings, which is the subject of 20 Members each, but only once a year, to convene a special meeting, but a much smaller club, no matter how many Members it is, even once a year? I wonder where the principle of proportionality is respected. For through the whole of parliamentarism, through the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of the proportional exercise of democratic parliamentary rights is drawing up, and here I see this principle of proportionality being seriously disturbed. I take two examples out. Let us remember, for example, that a group in the House has 39 Members. These 39 Members are only entitled to one special meeting once a year, because 20 Members, by their signature, are entitled to the request for a special meeting. The 19 remaining ones are no longer useful at all. That's to say, I'm holding on. A political group, which theoretically – this is a hypothesis – has 39 Members, can apply for a single special meeting in the year, just as much as a group consisting of about five Members – the lower limit of the club. Mr President, Mr Fischer! I am really interested in what words of reason you will find that the rights to convene a special meeting are equally stored, whether five Members are grouped in a club and apply for a special session or 39 Members. I am already very excited about what the reason is going to be. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very sorry that the Liberals and the Greens have made every effort to encourage this attack on parliamentaryism, in the appreciation of their minority rights, at the expense of the liberal opposition. Ladies and gentlemen! You do not need to be surprised if you are there and there called a blind intestine or an annex of the government parties, rather the Social Democratic Government Party. I have only been astounded, because Mr Wabl has obviously already internalized these terms such as Appendix and Blindendal to such an extent that he has already spoken of all the serious self by the Appendix parties here in this High – which means that his own party and the Liberals are meant. But I can tell you one thing: I believe that if you continue to do so and so clearly – I would like to say almost: plump – to enter into a boat with the Social Democratic Party, that this blind intestine is exposed to inflammation, and, ladies and gentlemen, you know very well from medicine that any arrhythmia can also lead to the risk of a blind intestine breakthrough. From the pictorial language of medicine to political reality, that means in other words, that you will feel the result in the elections very strongly in this direction. But that's what you really deserve! Whoever is here in line with the powerful in this country, who is here in step with the SPÖ creating a reform of the Rules of Procedure, is in favour of a reform of the Rules of Procedure, then is still proud of television and allows for a joint press conference of the so-called Four Bands – please do not encounter this term, because Bande is nothing but that one connects, and you are very strongly connected – who takes into account such a circumcision of the liberal opposition or the opposition at all, just to allow himself to receive some Judas wage, the electorate will punish it. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: A Sophie!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18254	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18276	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! In 1897, that is, 99 years ago, the parliamentary crisis, which for more than half a year had paralysed the entire inner political life of the cisleithan part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, culminated and led to violent unrest that left deep traces in Austrian society. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What is this? Spirit hour is now!]] At the time, this Parliamentary crisis was triggered by years of fruitification as a parliamentary instrument, and this was escalated. In general, the behaviour of a minority in a parliamentary representative body was understood at the time and even today under the rule of law, which seeks to prevent the existence of a decision which it has not taken, using all the means available to it and made possible by the Rules of Procedure. As a means of achieving this objective, persistent speeches, the classical form of fruitification, the attempt to prevent by abstinence the quota necessary for decision-making, the permanent introduction of new applications, the frequent adoption of votes, as far as possible in the complex form of national voting, and the excessive use of the parliamentary right of question and of inter-parliamentary rights are considered to be a means of achieving this objective. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Greens!]] [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Yes, by the government!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: And the constitutional legislation retroactively!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haigermoser! This definition, which I have just read, does not describe the behaviour of a political group in this House, but it is already from the year 1910 by Oswald Koller. But similarities with today's behavior are not only accidental, but intentional. [[Abg. Scheibner: But then it was the opposition, now it is the government!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Mr Bauer! The Oswald Koller wrote a writing: "The Fruit Collection – A Study of Comparative Parliamentary Law". It was published in 1910. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: So what?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: There was still the beautiful monarchy!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Scheibner, here you look! A fucking woman!]] And this definition of fruitification clearly shows how necessary rules of procedure are to ensure efficient parliamentaryism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] The similarity of this definition with today's circumstances or with the circumstances of the past months, Mr Bauer, is not a coincidence. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Who wrote this? It will have been a commissioned writer!]] I feel that the behaviour of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been obstinate for a long time. Today's special meeting is a classic case. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: For late retirement!]] At a meeting where the referee law is debated, it is necessary to put an urgent question on the same subject, although it is formally justified in my view, but a material-law abuse of the Rules of Procedure. And how seriously Dr. Haider takes this House, this invitation, ladies and gentlemen, proves. Here, Dr. Haider invites you to a cozy information summer evening, in a smaller circle. [[Call:When]] [[Calls: When? When]] [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: That warrants a special meeting!]] Tomorrow evening, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's where we all go!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's where we all go!]] There is an opportunity to have some background discussion with Dr. Haider in a relaxed atmosphere. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it! In a relaxed atmosphere!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Where is it?]] So for all those who want to question Dr. Haider tomorrow on certain backgrounds: Schweizerhaus im Wiener Prater, a very vocal area. [[Live calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: The shark goes, the livestock stays!]] The fact that Mr Haider does not really take the House seriously proves this invitation at a time when we will be holding the social debate tomorrow. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: But, Mrs Colleague, he takes this house so seriously that he does not walk around barefoot!]] Mr Haider is not interested in the social debate. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Meischberger, do you know the term "Pratestrizzi"?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Do you go to the Swiss House tomorrow?]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: All of us are going!]] If I speak of obstructive behaviour, this headline has also been obstructive, Mr Meischberger. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: But he never took off the shoes!]] I am referring here to the abuse of parliamentary instruments. Although the use of all the instruments of the Rules of Procedure by the opposition to the government parties is often laborious, minority rights are nevertheless an indispensable part of democracy, and therefore I welcome the four-party agreement, although I would very much like it to be a five-party agreement in a reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Democracy offers respect for the institutions and minority rights. However, the serious taking of the institutions is also evident in dealing with them. Those who also allow the impression to arise in many parts of the population, here parliamentarianism comes out of the joints in time or thematically, because nothing is planned or urgency is precipitated, special meetings are required, although plenary sessions are already in progress, are politically alarming. [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: But he always wears his shoes!]] [[Abg. Ing. Meischberger: He always wears his shoes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You'd spread a smell otherwise!]] In this respect, the disassembly of the politicians as a whole fits, which has been demonstrated today by the somewhat unworthy debate on the references and for me was the obstructive bulwark on the i. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats! You have just provoked this reform of the Rules of Procedure by your behaviour because you miss out on respect for the parliamentary rules of the game. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: A revenge is not a reform!]] No, Mr Bauer, there was no revenge, but it was the concern about parliamentaryism in this Republic. [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: A confession!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Respect for the democratic institutions is a value in itself, which unfortunately is strange to you. , and the great majority in this House does not want to sacrifice this value to a title story but to debate it efficiently – while respecting minority rights. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Watch out! Stay right in the line!]] We have learned from history from the ÖVP, because in view of the relatively young Austrian parliamentarianism, the fruitification scenes created in 1897... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's where the children were already controlled! Under Dolphin, the children were already controlled!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Please be careful, Mr Scheibner, you are doing well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 1897, many of the population created a cliché image of Parliament as a place of empty verbal struggles, or even of destruction and chaos, especially in the studying youth. [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did Parliament say then?]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did Parliament say then?]] Mr Stadler! Because you are lacking this historical knowledge, you are doing so disrespectfully to Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did it say? Give an answer!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: What did it say then?]] Mr Stadler, let me continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18870	I call Mrs Fekter.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18885	The beginning of the 1930s was marked by this Parliament. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The answer is in your club! That was Austrofascism!]] And if you read the programmatic book of the then Federal Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg "Trimal Austria" published in 1937, this acceptance will be confirmed. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It was Austrofascism!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where was Parliament then?]] [[Many other calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Monarchists and Austrofascists!]] The chancellor openly calls the fruitification before the First World War one of the main reasons for the fact that parliamentarianism in Austria did not take root. – You do not like to hear this because you have provoked similar practices here in this House. [[Abg. May. Stadler: No, we have nothing to do with Austrofascism!]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, the...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e18988	Madam President, I have the duty to draw your attention to the fact that the voluntary speaking time has expired.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19003	I have seen it lightly, Mr President. In the meantime, parliamentarianism has taken deep and healthy roots in Austria, and today's reform of the Rules of Procedure helps to prevent tendencies, as we have experienced in this century. [[Abg. May. Stadler: She quotes Austrofascists as justification for the reform of the Rules of Procedure! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now we know at least what we are about!]] The multi-party consensus was an essential prerequisite for democracy policy. If we want our children to have the necessary respect for our democracy and our institutions, then our work here in the House should not be misused for self-representation or for a headline of tomorrow, but it must be an efficient legislative body and a powerful control instrument. [[Abg. Scheibner: Like 1934! That's crazy!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For the entry into force of the Federal Constitutional Act Novelle, which is in the context of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, I propose an amendment at second reading, which contains only editorial corrections.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19109	The selected application is under negotiation. Mr Dr Kier came to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19133	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The hard core of the reform of the Rules of Procedure has already been differently illuminated, on the one hand by the colleagues who have worked in this compromise, on the other hand, it has been illuminating by the speakers of the Freedom Party, and I have noticed something special. The reform of the Rules of Procedure is also, in my opinion, the result of reason, of consideration and of compromise, which has also surpassed interests between oppositional concerns and government concerns. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't be there!]] I would also like to take up a statement by Mr Khol, who said that he was also considering whether, if a change of roles took place, he could also live with this Rules of Procedure, and I have no reason to doubt that it was a reasonable consideration. What is the exciting thing about this agreement? . The exciting thing is that a political group has come to the conclusion that it needs what is now being changed for its political stylists. It is clear that other people can be presented in a certain way and, much better so, if one has the instruments in place so far, if, for example, one can put an urgent question in the middle of the debate on a reference reform, which, so to speak, doubles the debate, knowing that at a time when high media attention is possible, one is once again putting the first speaker of a urgent and the first speaker of a urgent, i.e., the normal flow of speech, the normal succession of the speakers. If an urgent request so to speak, if it is used to change the order of the other lists of speakers, it is not an opposition right, but it is an instrument for the use of stylistic products that have nothing to do with parliamentarianism, but only with stage. But this is something that an opposition party cannot understand with the understanding of the Liberal Forum. For us, Parliament is, of course, a place of public debate, but not a stage stage, which is discussed solely after the timing of media demands and exclusively in the light of what is spectacular and headlineable, but in terms of contentious discussions. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] I am telling you, as someone who really likes to talk and who is also in the reputation – not exactly in this House, but otherwise – sometimes even too long to speak, that, if you discipline yourself, it is possible, in the speaking times that are now planned, to express what you want to express. It is not necessary to introduce three more abuses in each sentence. It is not necessary to attach four or six more insults to each argument. It is not necessary to send 17 speakers who actually only repeat what the 16 said before them, 15 before them, 14 before them. That's not political argumenting, that's agitating. Of course, the agitation also belongs as a certain element in a debate, but that must be an agitation that makes the sense of content, which not only goes out on stereotypes repetitions, which, so to speak, put the model of the Tibetan prayer mill here to this speaker's pulp. That's not the sense of conflict. If the possibility that the committees will be public in the future is so played down by the colleagues of the Freedom Party, I say to you: If, in principle, the public is possible under the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure and, of course, sometimes has to be excluded, those who may wish to exclude the public are under high public pressure. For it will then be necessary to explain to the journalists why this meeting, although it would normally have been public, will not be public. This corrective alone is a good corrective, and I think it would be very useful to deal with the positive sides of this reform and not to use words exclusively in the division of my colleague Krüger, such as "attack to parliamentarism", "Judas Lohn", "Appendix" and "all democrats were horrified". That was Mr Krüger's hardest statement. The other expressions he used are those of his own style. "Attack to parliamentarism" and "Judaslohn" – this is Krüger in the original tone. But to use a special arrogance in itself that all those who agree to this reform of the Rules of Procedure are not democrats – because it does not seem horrendous, for only one who is appalled by this reform is a democrat – that is quite, very primitive black-and-white: We the good, all the bad. [[Call the SPÖ. Unheard of!]] And be the majority still so big! If it does not take the opinion of the Freedom Party one to one, then all others are the evil ones. I believe that only this is so revealing that one has to say that it is not understandable. [[Abg. Dr Krüger: This is a black and white rule, Mr President.]] [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I'm just quoting Krüger here. And I repeat once again, and I would also like to read it repeatedly in the stenographic protocols: If all the democrats were appalled at what came out in the negotiations between SPÖ, ÖVP, Liberals and Greens, then obviously these four parties are not democrats. Because otherwise I'd have to say: Khol was horrified at his own result. It wasn't him, so he's not a democrat! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Krüger.]] Kostelka was not horrified at his own result: So he's not a democrat. Were Schmidt and fresheners horrified? - No, so they're not democrats. Wabl wasn't scared, so he's not a Democrat either. [[Abg. Haigermoser: And Kier?]] Kier's not horrified either, so he's not a Democrat either. But Haider – he is absent, so to speak, only present in astral form – was horrified. That is why I conclude quite rightly that he is a Democrat. So if you stay in the minority, you only need to take advantage that you were horrified: Then you're a democrat. In the sense of the colleague Applebeck, "the act of the ruler over the democrats is played." For she said that this compromise was an act of the ruler. So if a majority finds itself a compromise and agrees accordingly, that becomes the law. The right is to have the last word in this country, and so it is. But the ruler, whom Mr Applebeck meant, is sitting in her group and is not present at the moment. He is demonstrating that he is not at all interested in the Rules of Procedure, which is not surprising to me either. Because what does he need them for? – He needs them for his self-representation. And that's no longer good at 24.20. Logically, he's not here. In a "Third Republic" we would no longer have Rules of Procedure. All democrats will be horrified, but then the real ones. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19223	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. - She has the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19244	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen. We are debating the Rules of Procedure. If you discuss the reform of the Rules of Procedure in the public or in the constituency, you are often confronted with the argument: It's easy! In other work forums, laws are also made, knowledge is produced, decisions are made and so on. But with Parliament and with parliamentarism, as we have clearly seen today, it has a different attachment. It is not as easy as an outsider might seem to have come to a unanimous outcome. I am therefore all the more pleased as a parliamentarian who has not been in office for so long, that there will be a decision to join four genuinely democratic parliamentary groups, which they can also represent. That's a nice experience! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that we have come to this conclusion with a look at the borders on the one hand and, on the other, a little bit of tradition on the other. The European Parliaments are essentially referring to the democracy and co-determination of classical Athens. There, too, it has already been recognized that wherever people work, of course, the "human shell" must also be disciplined, that instruments must be created to enable work and, at the same time, to exclude all possible negative pages. By the way, do you know how long the water watch was allowed to be there? - Six minutes! . So we decide here a very traditional and very modern version of the Rules of Procedure! Democracy has developed further, and in Europe – we have already heard this in part – two typologies have developed: on the one hand, the French type with the place of great speech in arena arrangement – like here – with pathos and historical and historical statements and the British typology with the rapid interaction, the situation-saving parliament, which also has a different seat order. The EU is now finding a very pragmatic solution for Parliament. If we want to act similarly pragmatically, we don't have to remodel the hall. But we have to ask ourselves: How can we be up-to-date and modern and meet the new requirements of the public? – This is the way Austria is going with this Rules of Procedure, and that is good. Proposo pragmatic: A functioning Parliament is also a place of work. I can see this when I look here to my left, to my right and also to my back. – Employees, workers, public servants are doing work here, providing essential services and contributing to the good success of our legislative and control work. I therefore believe that, in future, labour law and labour protection standards must not only be adopted but also redeemed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that the current Rules of Procedure give us the opportunity to deliver these standards in fact without the whole end of self-expression and self-destruction. I believe that this body should not allow inhumane states to rule if it has set itself the goal that there should be progress towards greater humanity and justice. And if you look at the clock now and perhaps a little later, you should consider whether we are not getting close to the last-mentioned assessments. At present there are sometimes inhuman conditions which are not conducive to work and do not favour the quality of legislation. I believe, however, that this Rules of Procedure gives us a good relationship between legislation and control rights of about two. – In view of this, no one must feel circumcised and limited! Finally, I would like to make one more important point: Under the new Rules of Procedure, Parliament's work will be more planned, more efficient, more transparent, more clear, more intensive and more intensive if you think about the Committee's work. This regulation is an appropriate method, I think, that we can also consider what extent of work can still be done together with political activity. Because the inconsistency has grown in recent times. Another facet: This new Rules of Procedure is a more human and family-friendly interpretation of Parliament's work. Self- and foreign exploitation in the form of fifteen-to-twenty-hour sessions do not allow for recreation, for reflection, for collecting social experience and possibly also mental renewal. I think that in the year of lifelong learning we should remember that Parliamentarians can also take up training. But these dimensions, both family- and human-friendliness and further education, are not really important for the F-party, although it sometimes wants to present itself as a "family party". The planning of the work – for example in the British Parliament already knows what will be on the agenda in November on a very specific day – essentially corresponds to the notions of parliamentary and political work as they like women, and that is not wrong at all. – I am delighted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to say: Many thoughts have already been brought into this debate, including critical thoughts. I believe that neither psychologically self-maiming parliamentarians nor political stegriff diletants – whoever can claim this for himself – are not needed here. It is also not necessary to draw the conclusion in a way that reads: If you need to talk shorter, then the sound becomes grosser. – That doesn't have to be! It is not to be used formally by long-term abuse of content. It is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that we should use what we are making the law accordingly: We need to create framework conditions, to develop the best possible quality and to do good work ourselves. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19322	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am only working for the second year in this House, but only this last plenary week before the summer break will put a lot of things in the shadow so far. In my opinion, the composition of this agenda should be classified with the specified day-block speaking times under the heading "Human Schindery": For from the beginning of this meeting yesterday, Tuesday, 11 a.m., to the planned end – if I count generously – Friday around midnight, according to my calendar, this is 85 hours. And within these 85 hours, only 64 hours of regular block speaking time has been agreed, with no account being taken of the speaking times of the members of the government, those who have already been treated yesterday and those who are sure to come. That is to say, within these four days, there has been virtually no planning of rest periods for Members, because, in the absence of cooperation between the liberals, there has not been a reasonable agreement in the President. There can be no lasting solution to the fact that a regulated session is always based on the hope that political groups will not use their speaking time or give up on it. Timely growth occurs at each meeting. It is almost impossible for us Members to plan. – Of course, the main culprits are almost always the liberals. It is really high time that this unsustainable situation was halted by a new reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, opposition rights must also be respected in every reform of the Rules of Procedure. But the fact that four days around the clock are agreed or demanded by plenary sessions has nothing more to do with opposition rights! Every item on the agenda is important to me. Of course, the opposition's special actions should also draw attention to themselves. But only the urgents of the liberals during the last session, which lasted only six and a half hours and was dealt with on the same subject in addition to a long normal agenda, all the more so shows the importance of this reform. I am pleased that the two small opposition parties will, as a result of appropriate negotiations, contribute to this reform of the Rules of Procedure. This also shows that this change does not go beyond the minds of the small parties, but helps to prevent the growth that is mostly caused by the liberals and will ensure a regulated parliamentary operation. – I would like to give my assent to this new Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19392	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Barmüller.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19414	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is important to note the following points for the special meeting: The Liberals and the Greens were very much loved, but they will also have the opportunity to demand a special meeting on important issues in the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: No one said that!]] Moreover – and this is the real meaning of the special session, and so it was seen in this general regime – each opposition group should have the opportunity to maintain the flow of meetings in the event – and this could occur – that a government simply no longer convenes Parliament. This possibility has the opposition, which is more numerous and more numerous than it was before, and therefore it is also an enrichment that will exist in the future. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Brinek, has already done this briefly, in his speech today, he said that no one needs to be surprised if in the future the expressions become harder because there will be a limit on speaking time. – He is prevented from confusing cause and effect. For in recent years, the expression in the House of Lords has not necessarily increased qualitatively, but at least has become tougher: And that is something that he does not have to answer personally, but to a good part, to his group. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the rules governing the limitation of speaking time are ultimately merely an attempt to preserve a certain culture of speech in the House itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] In this respect, it is a double measure by Mr Haupt, if he here, with his own manner, pretends that parliamentaryism is being abolished and everything is directed against the liberals. For if he does not know how to do better on my premise that he is confusing cause and effect in this matter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, than to stop me from hearing another opinion, but, for example, you or Mr Stadler does not say that, then I see to what extent he is now measuring and how he is getting rid of the assessment of the actual procedures in the House. The fact that urgent requests from Members of Parliament are perhaps used themselves, and perhaps even later by Members of the Government, is something that this House can only do as an emancipation of the House towards the Government. This is not something that has to be criticized, as it has done main! That these are initial issues that are more flattering on the government than really putting pressure on them, that is another thing! But once the door is opened here, that is something which cannot be ruled out even in the future, because a greater distance from the government will also be possible from the government itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the "F"! There is no limit to the exchange of arguments if there will be restrictions in the future even in the case of urgent questions. I would like to give you another example: The fact that a matter which is under discussion is being raised today is an urgent question, the main part of which is concerned with asking the actual legal situation with regard to the application which has already been negotiated, shows what is the purpose of urgent questions: To inform yourself, but not to really bring something forward. In this respect, it is crocodile tears that have been shed by Members' heads. In my view, it is not at all a restriction of the exchange of arguments when, after five hours of debate on an urgent question, if only 17 speakers are still on the list of speakers who, in any case, all of them with the same concept – as Mr Krüger sees it – have now come together uniformly, can no longer give their speeches to the best. Ladies and gentlemen! A voluntary limitation of speaking time would have been desirable in this House, but it would have required that political groups in the Presidency not represent a position and then act differently here in plenary. To that end, this reform of the Rules of Procedure will be an enrichment for this House. It will become more interesting, and the media will be able to observe and transport the whole thing more easily. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19457	Mr Stadler, would you like to speak on business treatment? - That's not the case. Then I announce that no one has spoken and the debate is closed. A request from the rapporteur for a final word is not available to me. We therefore come to the votes. It shall be voted separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft federal law, which amends the law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, together with the title and receipt in 284 of the Supplements. According to § 82 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure may be amended only in the presence of half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by establishing the necessary quota. We shall now vote, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this draft law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council to give such a sign. . I note that this draft law was adopted at second reading with the required two-thirds majority. For the purposes of § 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading will not be done at once, but it will be done in such a way that a distance of at least 24 hours will be between the second and the third readings. We shall also vote on the draft Constitutional Act, which amends the B-VG, together with the title and receipt in 285 of the Supplements. There is also an amendment to Kostelka, Khol, Frischenschlager, Wabl and Comrades. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall vote on the draft law in 285 of the supplements in the text of the proposed amendment, which also takes account of the request made by Mr Schieder. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I am also putting it first according to § 82 para. 1 GOG fixed the quota required. - This is given. I shall now vote on the draft law, 285 of the supplements in the version of the amendment tabled by Kostelka, Khol, Frischenschlager, Wabl and comrades, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a sign in this regard. I note that this amendment to the B-VG with the necessary two-thirds majority was decided at second reading. This is where we shall come to the third reading. I should like to ask the ladies and gentlemen, who will also vote in favour of this draft law at third reading, for a sign on this point. – The draft law is adopted at third reading with the required two-thirds majority. This item on the agenda is done. 4. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Belarus, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocol (115 of the Supplements) (In accordance with § 28a GOG, no committee preliminary work) 5. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocol (116 of the Supplements) (In accordance with § 28a GOG, no committee preliminary work) 6. Point Government template: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocol (117 of the Supplements) (In accordance with § 28a GOG, no committee preliminary work) 7. Point Government template: Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, and Annexes and Protocols and Final Acts and Declarations (126 of the Supplements) (In accordance with § 28a GOG, no committee preliminary work) 8. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (86 of the Supplements): Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the course of the State border in the border sections II, IV to VII and in parts of the border sections IX and X (regulated Glanzbach) and XIX (regulated Rischbergbach) as well as installations (230 of the supplements) 9. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (153 of the Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act on the course of the State border between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia in the border sections II, IV to VII and in parts of the border sections IX and X (regulated Glanzbach) and XIX (regulated Rischbergbach) (231 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19635	We now come to points 4 to 9 of the agenda. These are government templates: Agreements on partnership and cooperation between the EU and its Member States, including Annexes and Protocol with the Republic of Belarus (115 of the Supplements), the Kyrgyz Republic (116 of the Supplements) and the Republic of Kazakhstan (117 of the Supplements), Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the EU and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, including Annexes and Protocols and Final Acts and Declarations, Reports of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (86 of the Supplements): Treaty with the Republic Slovenia, together with Appendices (230 of the Supplements) and the Government Template (153 of the Supplements): Federal Constitutional Act on the course of the State border between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia (231 of the Supplements). Points 4 to 7 were withdrawn from a preliminary consultation in a committee. This also eliminates reporting. On points 8 and 9, Mr Kaiser has been appointed rapporteur in committee. I'm trying to start the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19669	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I shall bring the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (86 of the Supplements): Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the course of the State border in the border sections II, IV to VII and in parts of the border sections IX and X (regulated Glanzbach) and XIX (regulated Rischbergbach) as well as installations. The regulatory work in the upper part of the carriagenitza northwards of the border mark pair No. II/502 to the border mark No. II/98 (end of wet border) continued from 1981 to 1986. The regulatory distance is approximately 27 kilometres. The state border, which was mainly in the middle of the carriage factory in 1923 following the border decency plant, did not follow the change in the water flow caused by the regulation. The re-establishment of the state border gives rise to a difference in the area of 707 m2 between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Austria. The full area balance is achieved in the dry area of the state border. In connection with the new construction of the bridge in the area of the road crossing Langegg/Jurski, the Glanzbach (gemeinde Glanz) was regulated. The state border has been transferred to the centre of the regulatory environment. The calculations carried out on the basis of this survey showed an area difference of 92 m2 in favour of the Republic of Austria, which is balanced in the dry part. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: That's enough!]] I'll cut it off anyway! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] The whole report is five times as long! The Foreign Policy Committee has the State Treaty in force at its meeting on 2 October. Negotiating on 1 July 1996. At the time of the vote, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty. The Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council should decide: 1. The conclusion of the State Treaty: Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the course of the State border in the border sections II, IV to VII and in parts of the border sections IX and X (regulated Glanzbach) and XIX (regulated Rischbergbach) as well as installations (86 of the supplements is approved. 2. In accordance with Article 49(l)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 49(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (c) Annexes 5 to 20 at the Office of the Styrian State Government and at the Leibnitz Survey Office, (d) Appendices 21 to 24 to 24 at the Office of the Carinthia State Government and at the Verwertungsamt der Kärnntner Land Government and at the Vereitungsamt. I should like to come to the report of the next item. It is also a report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs (231 of the Supplements). At its meeting on 2 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted the text of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. ==References====External links== At the time of the vote, the draft law was adopted unanimously. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs therefore proposes that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law submitted by the Federal Government (153 of the Supplements).
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19718	I would like to thank the rapporteur, who has now really informed the National Council sufficiently. We are going into the debate. The speaking times are limited by 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Scheibner.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19748	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There has been a great deal of complaint today about too long meetings and about meeting late into the night. Mr Guggenberger is already speaking, that is why I will do it very briefly. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: Thank you!]] After these moving words of the rapporteur, I do not really have much to say about these two proposals. These are border changes resulting from the regulation of Glanzbach and Rischbergbach. I can say that my group will vote in favour of these two proposals. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's something positive, because it's about important things. It is amazing and also very nice that there are border changes on the contract path. And I believe, rapporteur, that the changes have been made in favour of Austria. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Austria has grown in size.]] That's an improvement! I think we can only fully agree that our country has now grown by about 93 m2. We have different opinions on the other proposals, points 4 to 7, on the partnership agreements. The majority of the Group will also vote in favour of these proposals, because we believe that it is particularly important for our economy to introduce trade facilitations, particularly in this area of the former Eastern Bloc States. It should also be borne in mind, however, that certain phenomena do not occur: For example, in the context of Turkey, as a result of the EU's association agreement with that State, we have had to note that the back door has taken measures which are very negative for us. One of these measures could take agriculture. My colleague, Mr Aumayr, will then talk to you about this issue, which has a slightly more differentiated attitude to this point.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19803	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. - He has the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19833	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if I cannot follow my previous speaker entirely in the quality of his short version, I will orient myself at the midnight hour. But I believe that the excellent development of Slovenia requires that we recognize the successful turn from a central administrative economy to a market economy order, from a one-party system to a democratic order. Today, Slovenia, our southern neighbour, is one of the most qualified post-communist countries who are rightly seeking membership of the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Minority issues are essential elements of human rights issues, and we hope that there will be progress in this context too. The Slovenians are aware of this, and it has often been said to them enough. [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: I am grateful for that! I beg you not to let go!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Due to the situation of Austria in the European Community, we have not only a solidarity commitment towards countries which are burdened with the difficult heritage of the Communist regime. The security and stability of these countries in the coming years is also our stability. It is not so unprofitable if we are to help the countries achieve economic and political stability. The stability of Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovenia and other countries is also highly dependent on the Austrian future. We have an important interest in the stability of these countries, and I am certainly speaking for my party, when I say that we are all committed to ensuring that these countries become members of the European Union as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] You'll like to hear that in these countries. This is why fairness also requires that it be said that this may take longer for some of these countries than we and these countries. Because there can only be two components of development: The enlargement of the European Union must run parallel to a strengthening of political integration. One day, the European Union must also be at least as capable of working with 20 members as it is today. Otherwise, this would mean submining the European integration process. I am in favour of supporting this enlargement by all means, but not at the price of the European Union's decommissioning. For us, the European Union is a political objective that we want to achieve, especially with the aim of eliminating once and for all the risk of national war in Europe. We therefore hope that the Intergovernmental Conference will also achieve concrete results in this area. The atmosphere is not exactly open to political integration. Austria must work for this – both in its own interest and in the interest of an enlargement process, which strengthens and does not weaken the process of unification in Europe. There can be no renunciation of the political integration process, neither for us nor for other credible Europeans, even though some openly, want to make this enlarged Europe a better OECD or economic CSCE. The objective is a political goal: a political capacity for action in a united Europe. This requires efficiency, common consciousness and strength. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also applies to security policy. I appeal here to the groups in the house – it was quoted several times today Ingeborg Bachmann; she said: The story teaches constantly, but it does not find any students –: Let us learn from the discussion that we have held about the European integration process here in this House. There have been different opinions, ladies and gentlemen, per and contra. ==References====External links== ==References== More than two thirds of the Austrians have said, not only for accession, not only for the outcome of the negotiations, but also for the task of making the best for Austria and for a peaceful Europe. We also need common foreign and security policy. There are different views about this. We have done so on the question of economic agreement that today no one in this House is calling for a departure from the European Union, not those who were against accession. They have recognized that there is only one opportunity for a peaceful Europe: That's the cot, the co-indulging, that's the will to make the most of it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why not join the common security policy?]] I am in favour of this, and I believe that a new approach was also given to us in Berlin with the new NATO. I would therefore like to remind you that, although I am aware that everyone has their share in the success of the accession process, we must say that we have lost some hours unnecessarily. First of all, it was said that this was a block of citizens, because it was not possible to do so for ideological reasons, then it was said that we did not compete, then there was internal political friction. I must admit, however, that there have always been socialists who have known to be full members, especially in the union and in the Chambers of Workers. There was a social democrat, today's ambassador Dr. Jankovitsch – I hope I don't hurt him if I say this: He was the first of the socialists in the government gallery to become a full member of the European Union. He was called back to the party line at the time. Then there was revelries again. Only when we pulled a rope during the negotiations did there also be the great success. Now city councillor Swoboda has taken a very clear position. We need to ensure security in Europe and peace, solidarity between us and the members of the European Union. He said very clearly that he advocated that a contractual relationship be established between the members of the European Union, which ensures this solidarity. I am in favour of this solidarity. I hope no one returns the leader of the Socialists. Let this pioneer! I'm sure he's going the right way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Leikam.]] [[Abg. May. Ederer: I'm not responsible for that!]] [[Abg. Leikam: (for Abg. May. Ederer) You have to do something!]] [[Abg. May. Ederer: me?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I fully accept his language, and I am convinced of it: They'll follow him one day. We save ourselves rites and reach a point where we can say: We have also achieved the integration process of common security, a common foreign policy. President Klestil has also spoken clear words, both in the political integration process and now on the question of the common security policy. We do not need brakes or euphorics, we need realists and patriots, then we also choose the right way for the common security of a peaceful Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19975	Mrs Aumayr's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e19997	Mr President. High house! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: (because the speaker has a hit document) That's a waste again!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, I do not read this to you, but you vote on it today, and I ask: Which one of you read it? [[Abg. Dr. Neisser: All of us!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You're not sure!]] Yes, I read it. [[Ironian cry to disbelief.]] [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: The question is not whether you read it, but whether you understood it!]] And I'll quote from it. I can't save you. Dr. Mock! I give you the right to speak in broad areas, only one thing I have to say: If one says that the Austrian population has voted with a two-thirds majority in favour of accession to the European Union – that is the case – then it must be said honestly, too, in the face of false facts. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's it!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: The truth!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not how it is!]] That's it! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And one thing I can tell you, Mr. Dr. Mock: The peace and security were constantly quoted by you again today, but if I remember that German Chancellor Dr. Kohl said at a party meeting of the ÖVP, before the 1995 elections, that the question of the single currency is a question of war or peace in Europe, then I must say, Mr. Dr. Mock, I am afraid and afraid of it. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: No, you just didn't understand!]] Dr. Mock! I am also right if you say that it is important that we involve our neighbours, the reform states, because Europe simply does not end at our borders. But in Slovenia and the Czech Republic, the German minority continues to fight for its minority rights, and I believe that before Austria says yes to the accession of the countries of Slovenia and the Czech Republic, we must look very closely at what it looks like with the minority rights of the German-speaking population. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Schwarzböck! With these agreements that we decide today – which you decide not to agree with – there is a further liberalisation in agriculture, which is a huge liberalisation. I quote from today's "Kurier" the President of the Chamber of Agriculture, Schwarzböck: "More liberalisation is ruining rural existence. ‘Every further liberalisation also in connection with the further development of the WTO is not necessary and would cause serious damage to Austrian agriculture’, reaffirmed yesterday, Tuesday, the president of the Presidential Conference of the Austrian Chambers of Agriculture, Rudolf Schwarzböck. Tens of thousands of farmers would be ruined in the event of further liberalisation. The domestic consumers would be 'delivered in this way exactly those methods of production which today are fought and prevented with determination in Austria', says Schwarzböck." [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That's it!]] Mr President. Has Do you read these agreements and see what is inside of products that concern agriculture alone? Did you read that? For example, with Israel? But I'm not just going into agriculture: These agreements mean a further step towards job closure, because in the Kyrgyz countries, Kazakhstan are currently wages... [[Call the SPÖ:To Kyrgyzstan?]] Well, of course, Mr Schwarzböck, and this should also be of interest to colleagues from the SPÖ, because there are currently wages on the agenda, which are far, far below the standard of Slovenia or Croatia or Poland or Hungary. These agreements will, of course, mean further relocations and job losses for Austria. That's not a question at all! Because then, of course, production is transferred to these low-cost countries. This is always opposed to the fact that we also have a profit if we are trading with these countries, because we are finally exporting something to these countries. We are primarily exporting jobs there! That must, of course, be aware of us, that is not at all a question. [[Abg. Dr. Karlsson: That's not true at all!]] But you also have to look at the products that now come to Austria without customs duty without any restriction from Israel: Live animal transports, edible offal products, blood, human blood, animal blood, sausages, meat, wastes from food products processed for animal meal, asbestos fibre – that must be imagined – already forbidden in Austria – all the chemical range, all fertilizers for agriculture, pesticides, herbicides and – duty-free! – Nuclear reactors and fuel elements for nuclear reactors, such as tanks and other self-propelled armored motor vehicles, including with weapons. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have to say: I think it is quite unheard of for such agreements to be decided in the Austrian Parliament without having been dealt with in a committee. These are nothing but orders from Brussels, EU orders, and they are here today to the detriment of the Austrian economy and to the damage of Austrian agriculture!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20204	Mrs Jäger has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20225	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the hour ahead, I would just like to make three comments on the recent Eastern Europe summit of the World Economic Forum in Salzburg. First: This summit... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Can you say something about this agreement, Mrs Colleague?]] I'm going to deal with it, that's my thing. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] I refer to points 4 to 7, EU partnership agreements with Eastern European countries, and in this context I consider this summit to be extremely important for the development and future of the Eastern European countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fact that these summits are to be held each year in Salzburg is of great importance to Austria's position in its important bridge function and as a link between the EU and Eastern Europe. Secondly, A long-term opening up of the European Union is an essential historical and political process. The integration of Central and Eastern Europe is one of the biggest challenges for Europe's competitiveness worldwide. Our task must be to benefit Austria's chance of opening the East. We need to encourage companies currently ready to invest in these countries. However, it is essential that the fears of the population regarding investment in Eastern European countries be reduced. The danger of low wages and job outsourcing cannot be rejected. We must note, however, that in the longer term the economic upturn in Eastern Europe will, in particular, encourage sectors in the consumer goods industry. However, it is essential that the EU should also take priority over the challenge of social and environmental clauses and environmental standards from the Eastern European countries in order to break down increasing competition in the labour market. Thirdly, I think it is very difficult that many Eastern European countries are seeking to join NATO in the current situation. I also believe that the statement of the President of the Federal Republic of Klestil and the demand of the ÖVP and the FPÖ for an immediate NATO accession is extremely problematic, especially because a comprehensive European security system can only function with Russia's involvement. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Russian president Dmitri Ryurikov recently criticized how to speak of a good will if one moves forward the most powerful force to the Moscow border. Because NATO accession also means a massive financial investment in new arms systems and in the upgrading of Eastern Europe, it is precisely at a time when financial resources are urgently needed to strengthen and promote civil production in these countries, to deduct these funds and to invest in the purchase of new weapons systems which are needed in the event of accession to NATO. For this reason it is important to me that this question of a pan-European security system be discussed in detail. We will have to take an intensive part in this, but at the moment, I think, NATO accession must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20279	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign because of increased noise levels.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: No order!]] We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall take separately on each item of the negotiations. The first item of the vote is the approval of the State Treaty and its Annexes and Protocols in 115 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of this contract must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's where the head is for it!]] We now come to approve the State Treaty, its Annexes and its protocols in 116 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here for an appropriate sign. – This approval is majority. We shall now proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of this contract must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[Abg. Dr. Kostelka: (in the direction of freedom) You have no more discipline!]] We reach the approval of the State Treaty, its Annexes and Protocols in 117 of the Supplements. Whoever gives his consent, I ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The majority of the approval shall be made. We shall proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of this contract must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Whoever agrees here, I ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Adopted by a majority. In addition, we come to the approval of the State Treaty, its Annexes and its Protocols and its Final Acts and Declarations in 126 of the Supplements. Whoever agrees here, I ask for an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The majority of the authorisation was granted. We shall now proceed to the vote within the meaning of this kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of the contract must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, the constitutional provisions of which are Articles 1, 2, 4 to 10 and 12 and 13 respectively, to grant approval in 86 of the Supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provisions, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the approval of the State Treaty and its installations to give a sign of approval. – This approval is unanimous. I note the unanimous adoption. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the procurement of Appendices 1 to 24 of this State Treaty must be effected by the fact that they are imposed for the duration of the contract for public access during the hours of office as follows: (a) all the above-mentioned installations at the Federal Office for Eich and Surveys in Vienna, (b) Appendices 1 to 4 at the Office of the Steiermärkian State Government and at the Survey Offices Feldbachbach and Leibnitz, (c) Appendices 5 to 20 at the Office of the Steiermärkische Landesgebung, and (d) Appendices 21 to 24 at the Office of the Carinthian State Government and at the Veraßamtsamt internationalemarkt. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 153 of the supplements. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I first define the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – Consent is unanimous. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. . Here too, I can see the unanimous adoption, expressly pointing out that the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution are necessary. (Addendum; see also 36. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-07-09-020-XX-NRSITZ-00034_d7e20402	I declare that in today's sitting, self-employed requests were made 262/A (E) and 263/A (E). Questions 951/J to 988/J have also been raised. I call the next meeting of the National Council for today, the 10. July 1996, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting is closed.
