ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1611	I would like to welcome all of you, ladies and gentlemen, and ask you to take the places. I'll open the 4th. A meeting of the National Council, convened by more than one-fifth of the Members on the basis of a business order request. The Official Protocols of 1, 2 and 3. The meeting remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Dr. Haselsteiner, Leitner and Mag. Barmüller. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1648	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I may, in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure refer to the written communication distributed in the Chamber. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Notice of urgent questions
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1813	Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades requested urgent consideration of the written question 14/J by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades to the Federal Chancellor on record unemployment before entering the agenda. At the same time, MEPs Langthaler and Comrades have called for the written question 15/J by Mr Langthaler and Mr Comrades to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs concerning the perception of the Federal Government's energy-efficient competences in coordinating and optimizing the Austrian power plant for the construction of the Lambach hydroelectric power plant. Both requests are aimed at carrying out urgent treatment at the earliest possible time. I therefore make use of the law according to § 93 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to anticipate the negotiation of the first urgent question before 7 p.m. As the request mentioned was made at the same time, the urgent questions will be called in the order in which I mentioned them – this time, taking into account the strength of the political groups. [[Abg. Ing. Langthaler: Business treatment!]] Please, Mrs Langthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1844	Mr President. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been very much in favour of a declaration by the Federal Government today on the subject of Lambbach. In the light of the Rules of Procedure, a request was not possible. That is why we have tabled an urgent request here today, but we therefore call on the members of the Federal Government to address the issue of Lambbach in their statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1868	There are no further statements on business treatment. Declarations by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1889	We will go into the agenda and get to its only point: These are statements by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, which were put on the agenda. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1917	It was agreed at the Presidential Conference on Design and This debate lasts. Thus, the debate is to be limited to six so-called Vienna hours and § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be applied so that, because every "Wien hour" is distributed to the individual political groups in a minute, the following general speaking times shall be given: SPÖ 90 minutes, ÖVP 84 minutes, Free 78 minutes, Liberal Forum and Greens each 54 minutes. This is a proposal for the design of the debate. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then it is agreed and decided. I now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, since there is no vote on Mrs Langthaler's speech on his report on the agenda. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e1947	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of employment policy is one of the most important for the state and especially for each individual person, because for each and every one the job means income security and social security provision. However, high employment is also the prerequisite for a good economic and social development of the entire state and hence for social peace. Austria's government policy over the last decades has therefore been distinguished by the fact that priority for employment policy has been the essential feature. The success of this policy can now be measured by the fact that in Austria we have succeeded in mastering structural changes and recessions much better over the years than in other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In recent years, the employment security framework has not become easier: Accelerated structural changes, rapid technological progress associated with high productivity increases, work organisation changes and profound changes in economic relations, combined with the term "globalisation of the economy", and increased competition were to be addressed. Austria has also faced the challenge of the opening up of the East and European integration, combined with the important accession to the European Union. Both of these have benefited Austria, and according to the estimates of the Economic Research Institute, the opening of borders to the East could also be used by new export possibilities, namely that some 56,000 additional jobs have been created in the export sector. Accession to the European Union has opened up new opportunities for the export-oriented economy of Austria, but has also qualified Austria as a location for international companies. The large market is accessible to Austria's businesses and competitiveness is much better given by our accession to the EU. Despite the difficult overall conditions, Austria has even succeeded in increasing the number of employees in recent years. Although many structural adjustments have also lost jobs – inescapable – it has nevertheless succeeded in creating much more new jobs, so that the total number of jobs since 1985 has increased by 308,000, which is 11 percent. In 1985 we had an average of 2.76 million employees per year, and in 1995 averaged 3.68 million people. This proves once again the international competitiveness of our businesses, but also the successful localisation policy in which the Federal Government was significantly involved. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition to the development in Austria, it has succeeded in bringing key investors into our country, which is because it is internationally recognised that Austria as an economic country offers significant location advantages. I would just like to point out the following: Internationally, it is particularly estimated that employees in Austria have a very high level of knowledge, a very high level of qualification. It is estimated that Austria has a good infrastructure. It is also estimated by the companies investing in Austria that Austria also has a very economic tax system and a low inflation rate, and that there is also social peace. There is hardly a second country in the whole world, in which one cannot measure the strike duration even in seconds, as is the case in Austria. All of this helps to make Austria a good economic location. The figures prove that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we see employment as a major challenge for us, we must do so now, to a very special extent. But we can point out that, in international comparison, we have been better able than other countries to secure employment to a large extent. This also shows a comparison with regard to unemployment rates: According to EU criteria, seasonally adjusted unemployment rates in Austria are averaged at 4 per cent in the previous year, but on average the European Union – by the same measure – is 10.6 per cent. However, I am fully aware – and I repeat this over and over again – that these seasonally adjusted and measured figures determined in accordance with EU criteria do not correspond to our original unemployment figures we identify. For the international comparison, however, only those figures that have been determined according to internationally equal criteria can be taken. I therefore consider these seasonally adjusted EU values with regard to the unemployment rate not as a measure of necessary measures in Austria, but as a measure that Austria has pursued a better labour market policy than other countries. All in the economy, including the social partners, have contributed to this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is particularly pleasing in these comparisons – and this is absolutely so – to note that in Austria we have the lowest unemployment rate in young people compared to other countries in Europe, with considerable distances, and that is also an essential element. The worst would be an increase in youth unemployment. We must definitely avoid that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These international figures, which I have just mentioned, should serve as a comparison, but should not calm us down, because in the last few weeks and months, unemployment rates have also increased in Austria. We take this rise in unemployment very seriously. However, we have not waited until now for measures to be taken, because it would be too late for us to register only now that there are rising unemployment rates. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We started new and more intensive measures in these areas in the previous year. From the government side, together with the countries and the social partners, efforts were made to create new criteria for setting up new measures. It is necessary to continue to improve the quality of the Austrian site in the future. Given the challenges we face, this is not an easy task, we know. The high productivity increases have led to a decoupling of economic growth and employment situation – not only in Austria. Austria, however, is at the forefront of the international comparison of productivity increases – precisely because of the ability of workers and entrepreneurs. This is certainly good for competitiveness, but it also calls for even more restructuring. Between 1979 and 1994, industrial productivity rose by almost 80 percent. Comparative figures: In the United States, the increase was 59 percent and, as it were, the parade state for productivity increases, namely Japan, achieved a 30 percent increase in productivity during this period. This decoupling of economic growth and employment, the international economic reduction, which is now again, aggravates the situation, and this requires additional measures. In addition, public services have also begun – and this has been continued – in recent years, through new office organisations, through measures of debureaucratisation to save jobs. We therefore have the task of replacing those jobs that will be lost in industry, industry and public services as a result of restructuring measures with additional measures to prevent the rise in unemployment rates. In this context, it is worth mentioning a sector which has been particularly focused on this in the past year: In 1995 the number of unemployed in the construction industry increased. – At the end of January 1996, about 295,000 people were unemployed in Austria, around 16,000 more than in the same month of the previous year. Among these are 88 600 construction workers – economic, structural and also weathering. The construction industry is therefore one of the sectors where additional measures are needed in addition to tourism. A total of 35 800 unemployed were identified in the construction industry in 1995; compared to the previous year, this was an increase of 8.4 percent. This is why industry-specific data show an unemployment rate of 12 per cent, a rate which is below the 1993 value but above the 1994 figure. Therefore, in the previous year, a number of new measures have already been developed by the Federal Chancellor, the competent ministers and also by the Minister of Social Affairs, including: additional investments in the infrastructure sector, opportunities for additional activities in the housing sector. In addition to these two spectacular measures, it will also be necessary to work together with the industry to find new ways, for example not only towards new construction, but also towards improvement. In this context, I am thinking of one of the proposals that have come – to consider their implementation safely – which are to be deepened – how to create additional jobs in the construction industry in the future, through measures of thermal insulation, which are carried out, especially in the case of buildings where it has been neglected, measures that bring back costs, measures that are environmentally friendly and at the same time energy-saving. I have only given this as an example of where, together with the social partners, we will find new measures for the construction industry with the experts in the federal, state and local authorities. One thing is not to be expected, however: one can find a patent recipe that solves all the problems in the labour market. No single measure will be appropriate as a patent recipe, but there will be a number of combinations of measures to be taken in the sectors and regions that we have agreed and that will enable Austria to master employment policies better than others in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This group of measures, of course, includes the fact that the infrastructure is being developed in a timely manner, that the high skills of workers are further developed, that entrepreneurs are also moving towards export orientation, but that export orientation needs to be given substantial support from all the other parties responsible and able to help. Of course, this includes less bureaucracy, a good social partnership and the continuation of the Austrian way of cooperation between government, social partners, municipalities and countries. The infrastructure: It is necessary that this infrastructure – transport routes, telecommunications, energy supply – will continue to be developed in the future. At the same time, the expansion of the infrastructure has a positive effect on the immediate creation of jobs in the construction industry. This is why, in the autumn of the previous year, there has been a joint summit in which the relevant ministers - social ministers, economic ministers, transport ministers, finance ministers - have established a special development programme for the construction industry in the field of infrastructure with the social partners. This expansion programme will also be effective! The expansion of infrastructure must, of course, be continued despite budget consolidation, as it ensures the quality of the Austrian site for the future and immediately creates jobs. I also believe that budget consolidation and job security do not exclude each other. The consolidation of the budget is also a prerequisite for Austria's future location to be good – this is what I would like to say on this occasion. It is also necessary to continue the qualification offensive. An essential criterion for a good economic location is good training, good continuing training for workers, but also for entrepreneurs. This year, declared by the European Union as the "Year of Lifelong Learning", we will especially benefit from adapting training, the training system for the future, in the group of ministers responsible for education, science ministers, economic ministers and social ministers. [[Abg. Haigermoser: All right!]] In this context, of course, we also need to consider that we use part of the working time gained through productivity increases for further training measures – flexible, each based on the needs in the individual sectors. In the previous year, the labour market service has spent around 2.7 billion schillings on training measures for people who would otherwise be threatened by unemployment or who were already unemployed and should find a job again. It is also necessary to attract our site that research funding is continued and that, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises are offered additional opportunities to benefit from this research funding for their production. As I have just spoken about small and medium-sized enterprises, I would also like to stress the following: In order to benefit from productivity increases in such a way that they do not lead to unemployment, it is important that we step up export activities considerably. This must be a common concern. The export offensive must be substantially increased. It is necessary that, in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot, by themselves, acquire an international marketing system which cannot build up its logistics, are particularly supported by export measures. This is one of the essential measures that we shall adopt. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, the successful industrial settlement policy must continue. I do not want to mention the international corporations – they are known to you all – who have opened new businesses in Austria in recent years because they appreciate the economic location. This is particularly important because many of these companies have come to Austria, although there have been very good competitions abroad. Federal Chancellor Vrannitzky has always contributed the Seine to this and has been particularly active as an advertiser for these industrial settlements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A concern of the economy – if I say "economy", I mean not only the entrepreneurs, but all those who are involved in the work in Austria – who will be agreed by the government, is the removal of unnecessary bureaucratic barriers. In my section, negotiations with the social partners are also currently under way on more flexible design of working time. It is planned that we shall make a change in the Working Time Act to allow collective contractual partners or firms to provide new, more flexible possibilities for working time in collective contracts or other contracts. These agreements are intended to be industry-friendly. They are also intended to reduce structural overtime, overtime, which is made permanent, as much as possible in favour of additional jobs. I would like to remind you once again that it is also necessary to take into account the more flexible design of working time – in the interests of the economy! – that more time, time gained by increasing productivity, is provided for further training. One issue that is discussed several times is the question of wage and salary development. It would certainly not be right to believe that, with wage and social dumping, we are improving competitiveness with other countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that a general reduction in real wages, as it is sometimes discussed, would only lead to a drop in purchasing power – and that would be totally counterproductive. In the future, the good Austrian solution is that the social partners – not through government influence! – negotiate reasonable salary and wage accounts with an eye. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition to wage costs: Of course, in the interests of employment policy, it would be desirable to charge labour costs as low as possible with additional taxes. However, this must not lead to deterioration in the social system. In order to reduce the additional wage costs, alternative, non-paid replacement schemes would have to be found. However, to ensure legal employment, illegal employment, in which form it is always, is much more effectively combated. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This House has given new opportunities to do so in the previous year with the Anti-Fraud Act. Specific measures in the field of labour market service will still personally do so to address the difficult situation – I say again: We are well aware of the seriousness of the situation. – mastering; specific measures, for example for women, young people, older people and the disabled. This will also be available to us in the European Social Fund in the coming year. In this situation, there must be no such thing as a reduction in resources for active labour market promotion. On the contrary: The funds made available by Austria for active labour market promotion are to be maintained and, in addition, the European Social Fund, which will average 1.5 billion in the next few years, will be used for active labour market promotion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To promote women: It is a particular concern that, in order to promote women in work, but of course also their husbands, the childcare facilities should be strengthened. Further measures in the area of childcare, but also in the care and social services, will create additional jobs. At the same time, we have started an action with the AMS: In order to increase teaching opportunities for girls outside traditional women's professions – only very few are traditional women's occupations – teachers receive an additional promotion for teachers of these girls. This additional support will be significantly increased from this year onwards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition, it has been agreed with the labour market service – with the social partners represented in the labour market service – that there will be special measures for long-term unemployed, so that long-term unemployed find their way back into employment – this is extremely important. A special programme has been drawn up for these long-term unemployed: Farms, from 1st century onwards. March of this year – experimentally until 31. August of this year – a worker who has been unemployed for more than a year will receive employers' contributions to health, pension and unemployment insurance for the duration of employment or for one year. I believe that this is an important measure which will also help to help those people who are very often referred to as "social-smaroters", although they really do not find work. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Another target group to be particularly cared for is the older workers, who are often pushed out of work in advance. In this area, further training measures must be put in place in a timely manner and not only when these workers have already lost their jobs. It is a bonus malus system already developed last year, is currently under review and is about to be presented to this House, a bonus malus system that gives an incentive for entrepreneurs to recruit older people, and provides a malus for it when entrepreneurs push older people out of work in advance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This question is also linked to the problem of increasing the actual retirement age – I emphasize: the actual retirement age – because many people are being pushed out of work in advance. It is therefore a series of measures – I could bring a long list – which should help to give priority to employment as before. However, it is also necessary that we further improve the employment security instrument. The labour market service has been redesigned. Social partners, employers, employees are much more directly involved. The first successes have come to an end. The labour market service already works much less bureaucratic than it had to work earlier because it had certain specifications. The rules have changed. It works as a service station. The future will take a further step: The labour market service is to be increasingly and very quickly converted into a workplace management service. In other words, it should not only be a job that provides education and training, but also a job represented in the regions in which the social partners, employers and employees work. This labour market management is intended not only to mediate but also to identify in a timely manner where new jobs can be created, which measures can be used to secure jobs in a timely manner. And from there, together with the countries, the municipalities, the federal government and the social partners, the impetus is also to ensure that we constantly achieve new and tailored job security as the main objective. We set up an interministerial project organisation in September of last year at the level of the Federal Government under the title "Safe Jobs – Being Longer Active". In this project organisation, the ministries responsible for this – the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Women, together with the social partners – will step up their efforts to implement measures that will continue to ensure high employment in Austria. We recognize that we are currently in a critical situation across Europe. There are nearly 20 million unemployed in the European Union. However, the fact that we are relatively favourable in Austria - internationally - must not lead us to believe that we do not have to do everything we can to keep this lead. However, we must also insist within the European Union that the principle that has been re-adopted there and has always been applied to us, namely that employment policy is a priority, is increasingly enforced, including in Austria – in the interests of the State, in the interests of all Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2094	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2118	Mr President. High house! I am very glad that we are able to talk today at this special meeting about the current economic and employment situation, because I really believe that Austria is currently in a critical phase and it is urgently necessary to respond to the challenges that are to come properly, quickly and consistently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are at the beginning of a new legislative period – from my point of view – three key challenges: First: It is about securing and expanding the international economic position of Austria. Secondly, We must ensure that the rapid growth of public debt is reduced, reduced and stability guaranteed. Thirdly, We must do everything we can to prevent the forecast growth of the unemployment rate. Ladies and gentlemen! This requires new ways in the Austrian budget and employment policy! [[Accompaniment with the ÖVP and acclaim of the Abg. Hostish.]] What we need is a paradigm change in Austrian budget and employment policy, and we must recognise that things are closely linked. If we succeed in boosting exports, we also have higher employment, and if we have higher employment, we have more revenue without burden and thus better budget consolidation success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should like to point out that the economic environment has changed and that the measures for job security must therefore also be changed. Keynesian recipes, simply spend more money and thus secure jobs, are no longer grasping today, they would lead to even higher public debt, higher interest rates and thus less employment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we need is sound employment policies, which are integrated into a market economy and international economic concept, taking into account the limiting factors of budget deficit and current account. However, I would also like to point out, as did Mr Hums, that Austria was able to create 280 000 jobs between 1987 and 1995. [[Abg. Haigermoser points to Federal Minister Hums.]] He said in 1985, Mr Haigermoser. I'm talking about 1987. – This shows very precisely the power of performance, the strength of the Austrian economy, and it is really something we can be proud of that we have succeeded in preventing the increase in unemployment in Austria, in particular by small and medium-sized enterprises, at a time when international unemployment rates have climbed up. It is precisely because this was the case that it is now important to make every effort to keep this advantage and not to play out in the coming years. Especially in this context – and I say this quite openly – as Minister of Economic Affairs, I am deeply concerned about the recent forecast by the Institute of Higher Studies on the medium-term development of the labour market. According to IHS, the unemployment rate could rise by 53 600 people by 1998. According to this forecast, the number of self-employed would decrease by more than 40 000 by the year 2000. This is or would be an alarming development because, of course, every company and every employer is a potential job-creator. It is therefore important to prevent this development. And the number of employed persons should also be reduced by 16 000 according to this forecast. I believe that it must and will be the central concern of the coming Federal Government to prevent precisely this development from taking place in Austria. And I think the facts also show clearly where and how the hobble, the lever must be placed here. [[Rejoicing]] The facts show that there is a need for a combination of successful budget restructuring, active labour market policy and active location policy for Austria. Since the government negotiations are not yet completed, we can certainly only present guidelines and important elements of such a policy today. But it is important to me, as Minister of Economic Affairs, to bring in a few thoughts here, where I believe that we must set accents. First of all, the most important point: Austrian financial policy. I believe that the public sector in Austria is not currently serving job creation because of its situation, but rather at the risk of job creation if we do not oppose it quickly and consistently. I believe that the rapidly growing public debt is a problem for job security, because with the increase in interest rates, because with any tax increases, inflation increases would also lose jobs and Austria would not be prepared for future challenges. For me, therefore, consistent budgetary reorganisation is, therefore, the reduction in net deficits to the desired 2.7 percent integral part of an economic and employment policy. And everyone who thinks that it is necessary to prevent this development under the title of "saving waste", is really leading this country, ladies and gentlemen, not only to economic policy, but also to employment policy dead end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, successful labour market development undoubtedly facilitates budget recovery. If we succeed in preventing the forecast 8 per cent unemployment rate, we have taken an important step towards fiscal consolidation, and I believe that is feasible and possible. I believe that this means that we must not only consolidate the budget but also change the structures. There must be structural changes on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. In the future, the demands, the thinking of the claim and the thinking of the future must be highlighted. This means, for me, that in the transfer area, we need to slow down in public consumption and put new emphasis on investment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means, for me, financing additional investments with new financing models, without budget burden. In the field of tax policy, we must not lose sight of Austria's international competitiveness in the face of current economic development. I think it is necessary to consider in all measures whether or not they are strengthening or endangering our competitiveness. I think it is very important and essential that there should not be an increase in additional labour costs in the coming years, because such an increase in the additional labour costs would cost us export opportunities and would therefore cost jobs in Austria. Such a policy requires courage and, above all, rapid action, and it also requires courage to take some unpopular action. The Austrian Federal Government – I would like to stress this once again – has launched an investment campaign in construction and has decided within the framework of a building summit that 25 new construction projects in my ministry will be started immediately with 1.3 billion schilling in addition to the ongoing projects. Within the framework of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, another 21 new projects will be launched in a scale of 3.16 billion Schilling, and in road construction 600 million Schilling will be invested as an impulse. But I say quite honestly as Minister of Economic Affairs: I believe that these accents alone are not enough. I believe that it is necessary to put additional impulses and, above all, to give the economy the certainty that the order situation is also good in the medium term and that the utilization is correct. This means, for me, that we need to develop new financing models without budget burdens, which will help us to significantly increase the level of investment. In this context, I welcome all the ideas that are needed to increase the use of the Federal Property Company towards sales. Houses, apartments, a program to sell out the BUWOG apartments, all this can help to make additional money available here, which must then be implemented immediately towards construction investments, which does not mean budget burden, but brings additional jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also of the opinion that, despite some resistance, the Vignette should be introduced quickly in order to obtain additional money for the financing of motorways, and I will try to fix a road pricing system very quickly, because if that has happened, we know very well when it can be introduced, in what order it can be introduced, and then we can count on these potential revenues and thus already pre-finance investments without burdening future budgets. This is also an expression for me of a creative financial policy that the Austrian People's Party has committed itself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] No increase in wage additional costs means in the final effect and in the clear text: no increases in contribution. But this will force us and this House, on the expenditure side, in the family sector, in the health sector, in the labour market sector, to make those reforms that are urgently needed and necessary. And I say quite honestly: We need more impetus in tax policy as far as investment is concerned and not less. I cannot therefore imagine that the investment exemption, as has already been temporarily mutilated, will be abolished. I think we have to set additional impulses and promote tax incentives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a member of the European Union, it is my concern, in the context of the export offensive which has already been discussed, to bring small businesses into the internal market, thus securing additional exports and creating additional jobs in Austria. And because of the figures of economic researchers, I believe that a new culture of independence in Austria is crucial. What we need is a new wave of founders. What we urgently need is not a decrease of 40,000 self-employed, but an increase of 50,000 self-employed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ and the Liberal Forum.]] If we do, then I am convinced, Mrs Schmidt, that in Austria the unemployment rate will not rise but will fall. And that's our goal! We will do this by making the reasons for a company easier by substantially simplifying access to self-employment, by introducing the start-up savings and by providing attractive tax arrangements for small businesses. I think it is important to recognise in Austria, too, that bureaucracy is the biggest enemy of economic development in small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] And if we make the packages that I have promoted attractive, then I am convinced that many or some independent activities that take place today in the underground and in the grey sector will take place in the future – and this is a reasonable goal – in the official economy. And we want and will deregulate in the direction. With a concentration of funding that is envisaged, it should be possible to set accents and nevertheless save funding as a whole. And we should be able to use EU funding even better than before. The concentration of research funding, efficient technology advice for small and medium-sized enterprises are further measures towards new independence, towards more small and medium-sized enterprises. Making the business location attractive also means reducing total regulations in Austria. Just as there is competition in tax law with regard to the economic location, there is also competition with regard to regulatory provisions. Only those who can guarantee when and how quickly investments can be made will be kept and have the chance of bringing long-term investments into the country. And here it is necessary to remove weaknesses in Austria. With all the understanding of federalism, it is necessary to focus procedures, to limit procedures and to tell the investor clearly what conditions he can set up his company in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Stay as the last essential point of reducing unemployment in general and long-term unemployment in particular through active labour market promotion, which I believe needs to be effectively interconnected with EU measures and also to be made much better and more efficient than before. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a new solidarity. What we need is more closeness to citizens in this context. And I say quite honestly: In my opinion, the labour market service is on the right track, but certainly not yet in the right direction. In my view, it is necessary to give the local authorities much better access to local businesses with a view to eliminating abuse, freeing funding, but where there is genuine concern, to help more effectively and better than before. This is a system reform that is urgently needed, and the Austrian People's Party will make every effort in the negotiations now under way to implement this system reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we will do everything we can to encourage the social partners not only to discuss solutions in terms of working time flexibility, but also to agree quickly, because I believe that by doing so we can reduce costs, secure jobs, and automatically reduce the rate of unemployment in construction. Sure, ladies and gentlemen, and thus coming to the conclusion: I cannot present a ready approach to combating unemployment today. But I believe that the lines set out here will help us not only to fight unemployment but also to really win this fight. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2373	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement. We are now going into the debate. The total speaking time has already been announced: SP 90, VP 84, F 78, lif and greens per 54 minutes. Mr Dr. Haider spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2404	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberals have requested this special meeting, and only the statements of the two ministers who have preceded it prove that it was right and good to call on this Federal Government to act in the fight against unemployment, because suddenly the ideas are just going to blow out what would be and should be done. And we want to encourage them not only to produce ideas here, but to take concrete action in the fight against unemployment, because it does not allow a delay. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is the decisive thing at this meeting. It has also become clear that there seems to be no uniform concept in this government. The Minister of Social Affairs represents more the idea of the administration of the unemployed and wants to continue the existing ways. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Don't understand!]] The Minister for Economic Affairs has admittedly recognized the signs of the time, saying that it is necessary to make new adjustments in the fight against unemployment. He should be congratulated on this, although it should be added: He has been a member of this Federal Government for some time. Who has prevented you from implementing all that you have now recognized before and thus avoiding this unemployment? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Not we dramatize! Look at an APA broadcast. That's what it says: "Unemployed people climb to 9 percent in Austria. Unemployment is on the rise dramatically." Or the "press" writes: "300 000 unemployed soon normal state." The Secretary-General of the Federal Chamber of Commerce draws your attention to this. "In January, almost 300,000 unemployed." The "default" title is: "Employment continues to break down in 1996. 14 000 people will be less in the banking sector next year. "Work market breaks down." This is how the "Economic Sheet" is titled. "Economic prospects bad. Pleitewelle continues to roll in 1996." This is the title of the "Kronen-Zeitung". Ladies and gentlemen! According to recent surveys, each of the fifth Austrians is afraid of unemployment and fear of becoming victims of unemployment and losing their jobs. The economic research institute to advise the government says that the situation on the labour market is disastrous. I therefore believe that it is not enough for you, Mr Social Minister, to show us with statistics here, that it once looked very good in 1985 and that in the 1980s there was a lot of job success. – These statistics, the You quote here, they don't create jobs! Ask the unemployed who have listened to you if it is encouraging for them to hear that it was not so bad in 1985 that you did not think of anything for 1995. In addition, one should believe only those statistics that one has faked and therefore: There's some things wrong with what you've produced here! It looks much worse on the labour market than you admitted here. That is why it is necessary for the Austrian Parliament, across the political groups, to endeavour to address joint measures in the fight against unemployment as a task for the government. – We liberals will present today a package of around 30 applications and initiatives, and you will then have the opportunity to bring your ideas in and vote against them, so that the public will know who is taking it seriously in the fight against unemployment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Economics researcher Dr. Geldner meant that in 1996 we would have a level of unemployment corresponding to that of 1953. This is, in fact, a huge step backwards in development! There will be twice as much unemployment in the construction industry in the coming summer, and I would have liked to hear, Minister of State, how you will react to these things. After we lost 2 500 jobs in the food industry in 1995, we are going to lose 3 000 jobs there in 1996. We will lose 3 000 jobs in the textile industry, although before accession to the EU it has said that all these jobs can be secured, because membership of the EU is a prerequisite for securing them. The company Steffner has gone to Slovenia. The company Seidensticker produces today in Hungary. The company Mäser is speculated and produces only more on small flames. The company Huber produces in Hungary. Schneider, who belongs to the industrial president of Salzburg, has locked up with us immediately after joining the EU and is producing today in Hungary. – This is not the policy you promised people! If one reads that the industrial workers are forecast by the Economic Research Institute in the next few years, there could be a reduction of 100 000 to 125 000 jobs, then that really means fire on the roof! Then you can't pretend to go on in the existing ways that you've taken so far. You have to find an answer, Minister of State. How do you manage to rationalise between 10 000 and 14 000 jobs as a result of the change in competition in the banking and insurance sectors caused by accession to the EU? How will you deal with the problem of eliminating 7 000 jobs in the field of post reform over the next three years? How will you deal with the problem that, according to the economic researchers' prediction, this year another 7 000 people will move out of the full employment field in agriculture and will also appear as a demand on the labour market? Structural problems about structural problems, and they did not come about just yesterday! In reality, it is a failure of this government, for one has known for years that these things will come to us, but has lived in the day like Hans-guck-in-the-air. But now that the cash registers are empty, as one can no longer use state money, because the economic conditions of competition have become dramatically worse, one tries to deal with old recipes new problems. It won't work! That's where I agree with Ditz. We will need to improve the economic environment. Ladies and gentlemen! The social democrats, as well as the representatives of the ÖVP, know the following fact: The labour factor has been overly expensive in recent years by the tax and tax policy of this government. The labour factor in our country, which is essentially a small and medium-sized economy, which has a broad service sector in which people are used to provide services, although this economic structure is known, has been far too expensive. A tax and tax after the other was imposed on the workplace. That is why we say that these things are to be corrected! For if it is true what the WIFO says in a recent study, that means that only the employment taxes introduced by this government have caused 2% of the unemployment. That is why there are thousands of additional unemployed! It is therefore necessary to consider why we are living in a country where work is constantly subject to taxation and taxation, although we know that the international trend is quite different. Please read the statistics on wage tax revenue! It is the workers who paid the bill for your tax policy last year. No other professional group has been so strongly asked to cash out – for example by the cold progression – as the employee, who had to pay over 10 billion schilling more wage tax. The work factor has now been taken up in a very dramatic way in the fiscal sphere. That means a 15 percent increase! In addition, a local tax comes along, social security contributions come – and overtime taxes are added. The burden, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has become more and more intense, and they have not been loosened. That's why we say the liberals: A crucial way to improve the framework conditions in the sense of what the Minister of Economic Affairs has also said is to get away from high labour costs. We cannot therefore be satisfied, Minister of Economic Affairs Ditz, if only we are told: The additional wage costs must remain at the same level. No, the additional wage costs must be reduced, Minister of Economic Affairs, so that competitiveness and labour costs can be safeguarded! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This even tells you your former boss, Mr. Maderthaner of the Federal Chamber of Commerce: One cannot stand in international competition, have more than 100 percent of additional labour costs, if the competitors in Europe go below 100 percent! How do you want to be competitive? It is not a question of getting the employee into the pocket now on the labour cost sector. Ladies and gentlemen! With our model of ecological tax reform, we liberals have... Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Wabl: Bravo!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Langthaler.]] I've been waiting for you to report now. As a matter of fact, you are only more responding to word reflections, rather than thinking about what it is all about, Mrs Langthaler. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is a question of deciding in Austria to start an eco-tax reform in a first step, which, according to our proposals, will be redistributed about 42 billion schilling. That means: If we introduce this energy and eco-tax, this means, on the other hand, that we eliminate the municipal tax by 3 per cent of the gross wage and apprentice tax, can reduce VAT by 2 per cent, and thus improve the conditions for the international economy in favour of the domestic competitiveness of our enterprises. [[Abg. Wabl: What's going to be more expensive?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Then we have to think about why we have the situation today, that nothing is corrected in the chamber envelopes. [[Abg. Wabl: What's going to be more expensive?]] I do not answer questions in the hearing now, but I will now inform you of our ideas! Ladies and gentlemen! We must consider why we cannot reduce additional wage costs by reducing compulsory contributions to the chambers. Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. I think you're going to take the floor. I ask you: What prevents the Federal Chamber of Commerce from saying: In the next few years, we will give up a few billion shillings of chamber envelopes, make them available to the domestic economy and thus reduce the additional wage costs? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: What prevents you from letting reforms take place once in social security? Mr Maderthaner! I do not know if you find it appealing that the year has twelve months, but the social security contributions for a 13th and 14th. Months must be paid in which one is said to be ill, although the year has only twelve months. We should be a philosopher on this. Because this is actually driving up the corresponding loads for our businesses! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I believe that these considerations are much more realistic, ladies and gentlemen, than those I have heard in recent weeks by the Social Democrats: [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have no idea!]] Mr Nürnberger as a trade unionist spoke at one time of a real ban on wages, which should be possible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Incredible!]] I think that's wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Don't touch the wages! No reduction in the real income of income earners! Because then you will also destroy the internal economy, which is still present. So: Hands away from these things! Häupl to Nurembergers can forget their ideas again, because they are not only very peculiar but also diametrically opposed to the economic situation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We need to improve the framework conditions. We must recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that the international investors, like a jury, are also looking at Austria and assessing whether we are meeting the conditions for an attractive economic location. Mrs Hostasch, you nod so casually, so I say to you: The result of these observations is the reason why Siemens transferred the large-scale investment to a new factory in England and did not stay in Villach, where there is already a parent plant with a qualified workforce. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: billions were invested there!]] – You have to think about it! One should also consider why in 1994 – and you know this yourself very well – the foreign investors in Austria have invested 11 billion schillings, while in 1995 investment fell to 4 billion schillings. Explain to the Austrians why this dramatic decline suddenly occurred! In reality, there is only one alternative: We need to improve the economic environment and adapt the international conditions, that is to say, we need to create a slim state so that we can have scope for wage and income tax reductions, so that we can also have room for lower costs in the area of additional labour costs. Investment in Austria can then be linked to profit opportunities, and that means that for the employee, work and performance are linked to earnings. It's about these interrelationships. But you've lost sight of them for a long time! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For a long time, I have felt that in this government, too, there is a bit of the motto: In the evening, the lazy will be diligent, acting. Now that we have requested this special meeting, the Federal Chancellor suddenly convenes a social partners' summit on employment and unemployment. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: He's been planning a long time! You have no idea!]] Yesterday, he suddenly told a newspaper: I now have a new program: Work for everyone! – The Federal Chancellor now suddenly says that, but only his coalition colleagues do not yet know that he has a new programme! Today he is presenting a new concept for jobs, and Mr. Häupl, the mayor of Vienna, lets us focus on the afternoon: In Vienna, unemployment is now so terrible, so we must quickly build more railways, more bridges and more roads. Ladies and gentlemen! It's delicious how you suddenly behave. Minister Hums! You claim that you have already prepared an alliance for the work as we demand it. Please, get out with the alliance! What now prevents you from proposing concrete measures? – I haven't heard yet! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: This has been prepared a long time ago!]] Long ago? Mr Novotny, you are really sitting in the ivory tower of a scientist cut off from reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Novotny! Go out, for example, to the many thousands who work with the Austrian Federal Railways. You will hear from these construction companies – and I am convinced that you are able to listen – that last year a total order volume of 4 billion Schilling, which had gone to hundreds of small and medium-sized construction companies for maintenance work for the railway, has completely broken away. There were no more orders at all. And in view of that, you say: The alliance for work works! – 4 billion schillings have been lost to the medium-sized area of the construction industry! [[Calls of the Abg. Parnigoni and Dr. Novotny.]] Would you please answer the question why, before the National Council election, you have acted on the fact that suddenly no public orders will be given in the economic resort, but why are you now saying here: It's all paletteti anyway! – Of course, nothing is palleti, because the procurement was also blocked in the economic resort for months, over months! Reply It also raised the question: How does the alliance work for work if public procurement does not work at all, for example, in the field of transport technology? Mr Nuremberger must say: 35 000 jobs hang in the air – not me! Your colleague, Nürnberger, made the alarm call: It wasn't taken care of! – This is not the way we and the "Ally for Work" are supposed to be! Or: Mr Ditz commissioned a study on the effectiveness of public investment in autumn, when he claimed that, according to Minister Hums, he already knew that unemployment was going to increase dramatically. You are beginning to produce studies, although you should have taken action for a long time! But even this study probably has not seen the light of the world to this day. But once again one has gained time in this way to be able to talk about the problems somehow, instead of giving public orders! The question must be asked: Mr Ditz justified the fact that, at the end of 1995, the BÜRGES action in itself was so estimated by the industrial economy. That's about 90 million schilling, gentlemen of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. I ask you: Why is there no cry from you? Why Do Not Hide Are you aware that a popular and good instrument of investment promotion can run out of song and soundless under a minister, because you put it? What do you say about the fact that he is now saying that he knows how to reorganise economic policy? To do this, you can only say: Worlds lie between reality and announcement! – On the other hand, we liberals are used to talking about reality. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] There is a great deal of talk about public procurement that has now been given. You only need to look at the Official Journal of the municipality of Vienna. In reality, two renewal and rehabilitation orders have been issued because there is no money. But one speaks differently in the public than it is actually done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mr Novotny! Be glad you have a pragmatic workplace because you would be the first to be rationalized! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's really right!]] [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and to the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals note that the government bank has tried to pray all things in health. We note that you, Mr Social Minister, have no, as always, change strategies in the fight against unemployment. Compare this with Germany: The social partners meet, where the industry's representation of interests speaks with the union's representation of interests, where the Federal Chancellor is committed to the highest personality and brings about an alliance for work in the fight against unemployment! [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: And how are the unemployment rates in Germany?]] – And what happens in Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: A question: Where is unemployment greater, in Germany or in Austria?]] In Austria, the red chancellor sits together with the red union chief and is paralysed in view of the situation he would have to deal with. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Novotny.]] Mr Novotny! I know you are affected because it is the first time that we have seen that social democracy has no recipes in the fight against unemployment. That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: Please get more logic!]] Mr Novotny! It is unacceptable if you believe you can ask where unemployment is higher. In Austria it is high enough for action to be taken! That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Look This is what you're looking at: Before the election, the Social Democracy placards Mr. Bundeskanzler, who says: Now, quickly creating jobs! Then a few weeks pass, and now we have an unemployment rate of 9 percent. And the Economic Research Institute tells us that we will have an increase in insolvency this year, that a new record will be set. That is the reality, Mr Novotny! Mr. Federal Minister Hums says: We don't need headlines, we got everything under control! – Why does the Federal Chancellor make so many headlines and acts so little? "Work for All" he presented, but no measures in Parliament! Where are they, please? He has presented a concept for jobs today. – Where are the measures? Madam President, Madam President Hostasch lets us focus on the "Kronen-Zeitung" (Kronen-Zeitung), namely: "Seven recipes against unemployment" – first of all, to say that there is no patent recipe. However, it is said to have seven recipes to reduce unemployment. It is interesting, Mrs Hostasch – and I hope a trade unionist will be able to answer this today – if you ask for annual working time contracts, flexible working hours, as well as combat measures against Pushing, but without saying what you want to do. Then suddenly – contrary to your statements before the National Council election – ask for an increase in the retirement age! Very interesting! Request further They suddenly have flexible working hours. Should I read to you what you asked? – You demand exactly what you want before the National Council election in leaflets Your party and your trade union organization have called it a "hauli to the workers through the black and blue block". [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Black and blue, it is said in this leaflet, wants to sell out workers' interests. That was just the beginning. Next, the black and blue block of citizens has the following in sight: Extension of the daily normal working time from eight to nine, to 10 to 13 hours. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: But not really!]] This means loss of income due to the loss of overtime. Social democracy warned of that. Now I'm wondering, Why, after the election, do you suddenly represent a flexibilization of the working time you have warned of before? Then explain what you mean! But don't talk at the same time about two things that actually make a measure you require or represent no longer feasible. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Got it!]] I quote: The Schüssel Party and the Haider Party have given the launch shot at the danger of social peace in Austria. – Now, says Minister Hums in the business section of the "Kronen-Zeitung", he can imagine that the definition of incapacity for work is tightened in order to do something about occupational incapacity pensions. You have defended this definition before the election in this leaflet, if I have read it correctly. Now say at once, you are for an increase in insurance periods from 35 to 37 years of insurance. [[Abg. May. Stadler: From Saul to Paul!]] Honorable question to you: What has led to the change of opinion of social democracy, since you spoke quite differently before the election? First you wanted to protect the overtime supplements, now you are for flexible working hours and an extension of the day's working time and thus take away those people who are diligent. Or come out and say that you mean something completely different again. We finally want clarity about what you really are talking about. Acting is advocacy. Acting is crucial. There is no one to prevent you; the government is in office. Mr Stummvoll said quite right at a press conference: This interim government can also act; there is no excuse for you to wait until the coalition pact stands. It does not prevent you from finally starting public investment, for example in housing. Who will prevent you from making a regulation to enable the housing cooperatives to use more own resources, of which you have saved billions of reserves? Only when you use more own resources is there a willingness to also contribute to it. Then Save They can promote themselves and, by means of existing funding, they can promote even more dwellings than has been the case so far. Who will prevent you from quickly reimbursing the incomes for outstanding housing loans in order to have funds to operate in an effective construction area of job security? Not of road construction or of road construction Hole in the tunnel of Semmering is workplace safe, but the residential building. These are rather classic areas: construction, for example, where many jobs could be secured and preserved. Why do it? You don't? Why Care You're not about co-financing with the EU? Three billion schillings have already passed Austria without the Republic of Austria and the Government taking care of the co-financing programmes to protect against unemployment! Because you don't have any money in the budget; that's the reality! There are programmes in this area in Brussels, but you cannot do so. Who will prevent you from releasing BIG projects, which Minister Ditz has now spoken about, which should have been done since November? And who prevents you from doing, ladies and gentlemen, power plant projects that are unrestrained. The SAFE project in Parish, for example, is a completed project. It's inconsistency. You could get it in swing. Work, saves hundreds of jobs. Where are you with your crisis management when it comes to really guaranteeing and securing jobs? When I read that Mr Novotny is quoting our proposals in this way, he says: Where we have written off the SPÖ, they are good, but where we have something, they are bad, I must tell you: Do you at least support the good proposals that we have tabled today? Then we'll see what brings you together. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It may also support us by the ÖVP representatives, for there are no differences of opinion between us on the question of the need to reduce additional wage costs as well as the reduction of the investment exemption. [[Abg. May. Stadler: In the "coalition-free" room you are not allowed!]] I am glad that Minister Ditz has become Paul on this issue from Saul, because before the coalition, he wanted to abolish the investment exemption at all. Now he wants to raise him again. – Congratulations, Minister, you have our support in this direction if you really mean it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Wabl: We could raise the fuel price a little, you populist!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a situation which Mr Wabl finds funny because he finds everything funny from a certain point of view – but: 88,000 people are already unemployed in the construction industry alone, around 300,000 people in total are unemployed. We must therefore note that the promotion policy, the economic promotion that this government is always so proud of, is in the wrong direction in many areas. They are promoting empty factory halls, but not employment, Mr Social Minister! If you're leading general engines and saying that's a huge investment, I have to tell you: No more jobs are created there. Or if you are pleased that the Leykam paper factory gets a new machine that we are now also promoting, I will tell you: There is no job support there. There is emptiness, and the emptiness! However, those who really need our support in order to create new impulses, namely the medium-sized sector, the medium-sized sector, which in reality secures jobs in Austria, that area that does not emigrate from Austria, but continues to produce in this country, secures jobs and thus creates income for people and for which we should improve the framework conditions, will not be helped. That's why I'm saying: Let us try to carry out a number of initiatives together. It is of little use if our colleague, Mr Vergestnitsch, lets us focus on newspapers: Well, the liberals jump on a moving train, on a train that ÖGB has already brought on the tracks for a long time. – If so, we will be happy to go with you if But you do not go to the line, Mr Vergestnitsch! That's what we don't want. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You must tell us now how you want to lead the fight against unemployment. I read that Mrs Hostasch says: We must force the fight against unemployment at European level. – Then in the "Kronen-Zeitung", Mr. Vrannitzky says that short-term methods to relax the workplace situation are only possible at the national level. - So, please, what now? Do we have to fight at European level, or do we have to take national measures? Ladies and gentlemen! That's a ping pong with you: If you are in Brussels, you announce that you will take action in Austria. If you are in Austria, you announce that you will take action in Brussels. The "classical" behaviour of all EU politicians, who in their own country always insist that unfortunately this is no longer happening in Brussels and therefore do not bring them together in their own country. Now put those measures that you can put nationally, but don't lead people behind the light! Do you not say that you see unemployment as a criterion for monetary union? If Mr. Klima comes back the same day and lets us focus on the "Economic Sheet": It all remains with the old, the criteria are not changed – but it is a trade union struggle. Of course they are not changed. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Minister Klima! Would it not be more reasonable to think about it – instead of demanding new criteria, new parameters: a sixth one now? – to negotiate in Brussels that the investment measures are not included in net debt, not included in these 3%! Negotiating about it, because then you do not do more for job security than if you tell the Austrians about any nebulous demands that are never enforceable in Brussels. Out with the investment demands from the 3-percent quota – and you have room to make more points with public investment in the field of economic policy! That's what we're telling you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or the question of labour costs: We told you: Get away with the high loads of work in Austria! Here new ways – one of them is proposals that we have made, there may be others – need to be taken. But no real wage cut! We oppose the fact that we keep speculating that we are also dealing with real pay cuts. Mr President-in-Office of the Council will tell us how serious it is in the negotiations in the Government that a 5% supplement on income tax and on wage tax is still generally taken into account in order to get money. – I say to you: This is the wrong way, because you are actually breaking the purchasing power in Austria. And that is not what the economy is doing at the moment. They must save and change the structures of this social state. Then you will be able to initiate a good future development for the domestic economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They must accept a founding offensive by creating new jobs through new businesses, making risk capital available, for example, in the form of savings in profit. The Austrians are a people of savings book owners. Yes, why not finally introduce such forms of participation? [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Not so, my colleague. It's been out for half a year. That would be your responsibility in the union to say that we are finally carrying out such measures with the BAWAG, so that we can restore the risk capital to medium-sized enterprises so that they do not end up like the "consumer". [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Main: Bank Austria!]] To the export area: Of course, you have to do something about it. It is precisely touching when, yesterday in the "Kronen-Zeitung", the Federal Chancellor announced that he would also create commercial houses for the export of the medium-sized economy. – An old idea from us Freemen to set up commercial houses, because most businesses are too small to go on the export markets alone. However, it should not be forgotten that it is a bad policy to do export promotion now, once the markets have been joined together. I would like to read to you what Mr Schüssel, then the Minister of Economic Affairs, told us on 18 May. In April 1994 Parliament promised to join the EU: "Despite tough competition with companies in the EU, negotiations with the European Union on the one hand and discussions with the Japanese economy on the other, have succeeded in ensuring that the Austrian export quotas to Japan are fully maintained for the automotive supplier industry." – Do you know what this actually looks like, Mr. Vergestnich? Do you know how this "keeps up" looks today? – It looks like Semperit must assume that next year it will not deliver anything at all, that we have been utilised by the 4 billion schilling of exports made there this year on modest 1.5 billion shillings and that more than 3,500 jobs alone hang in the air. Building a market, then breaking it easily, but then saying: Now we need a new export promotion!, that's crazy! A chicken-hot policy is that which is actually not acceptable. However, we also need a medium-term reduction in interest rates for the medium-sized sector, for it is precisely the interest-rate burden on the high foreign financing of our businesses that needs to be reduced - even for existing businesses in order to re-establish investment. This can have been done through an expansional open market policy, which can be initiated by a reduction in minimum reserves. However, it must be made clear, above all, that the many small and medium-sized enterprises must have the opportunity to make their foreign financing under the same conditions as the large ones. Only the 0.8 per cent credit fee, the additional registration fee of over 1 per cent, the additional fee for handling more than 1 per cent, is a job guarantee to a high degree, especially those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which today form the backbone of our domestic economy. In our view, there must be a considerable increase in interest rates, and the government also has the obligation, together with the National Bank, to carry out an interest-rate reduction by means of a strategicly properly established open market policy or by reducing the minimum reserves in general in order to ensure more investment incentives. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not possible to build up when you read that the big companies make pleite. Mr Maculan is doing a good job and the banks are kicking out 700 million schilling. The "consumer" goes well – the banks give up on 600 million schilling. The HTM has a crisis – the banks give up on 700 million schilling. The little one must co-finance over increased fees, over increased interest rates. This is precisely the one who then makes sure that the "consumers" who have been released, that the Maculan employees who have been cancelled are then accommodated at smaller businesses, because the others are no longer willing to fulfil their obligations in the economy. These are the interrelationships; this makes the economy so annoying in Austria today. That is why we have installed a whole package of corresponding discharge measures. I agree with you on one point, Minister: Active labour market promotion should be maintained, should also be expanded, but transparently please. This should be extended in such a way that long-term unemployed people can also be given the help they have been given to create a bonus-malus system for older workers and that more attention should be paid to skills. I would ask you to really think about whether it would be useful for a construction worker who, if unemployment prevails, really wants to go to the polishing school to lose unemployment support because he wants to qualify! If he stays at home, he lays himself on the lazy skin, he gets the full unemployment support. There is something wrong with a system in which those who qualify themselves will be punished! Consider, too, whether we would not, with a VAT premium in the area of buffer insulation, open the way for the house-keepers to remain legal. We return a premium of 12, 15 percent of VAT if you are legally working with professionals. Then you have orders for the economy, you have restricted the punch and at the same time more tax revenues for the Minister of Finance in the box. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to ask you to consider whether it is reasonable that in the event of an unemployment of almost 300 000 people in Austria, a foreign employment of about 300 000 can be maintained in such a way. We believe that the employment rate of foreigners should also be gradually reduced and, over the next two years, between 50 000 and 80 000 jobs thus increased. We believe that we should finally create an obligation to issue a certificate in this respect so that we can distinguish illegals from legal persons. And we believe that, with regard to family succession, it is also necessary to recognize that every family member who follows, every child of a foreigner who follows, wants to have a job in a few years. – However, this government has not found an answer. Therefore, there is today twice as much unemployment among foreigners who are resident here as the Austrians. We also demand a revision of your line in this area, so that the jobs are also well protected for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2903	The Federal Minister has spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e2925	Dear Dr. Haider! I really don't want for hours. However, I would like to comment on some of the points that you have obviously failed to take up at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] That was just my presumption. Doctor! It's up to us... thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Novotny: That is justified!]] The first response is that I would have explained that from 1985 to 1995, the number of jobs increased by 308,000, despite restructurings, because more new jobs were created. You may have misunderstanded that. So: Because of the good labour market policy, there were more jobs in 1995 than in 1985, around 308 000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is the difference in Austria's labour and employment policy with the other countries. That is the full truth; you can check that out at any time! [[Call to the liberals: But this is only half the truth!]] The second point I would like to comment on: They explained that co-financing for EU labour market funding had failed. – That’s not true at all! The social sector was the first area in Austria in which we achieved funding earlier than all other EU countries through the good preparation of the Ministry and the labour market service, and in negotiations with the EU. We have provided enough money in the labour market service, so that we have also secured co-financing. We have therefore fully exploited all the possibilities of grants from Brussels, from the European Social Fund for Labour Market Policy: for the previous year, for this year and also for the coming years. I should like to point this out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Once again, I would like to stress that we will not cut down on active labour market support in the budget and use EU funds in addition. Because you spoke of my pre-election statements on pension rights: There are also similar statements after the election. At the age of retirement, we have repeatedly declared that an increase in the statutory retirement age is not useful and will therefore not take place. However, we have repeatedly stated that we will very probably bring about the actual retirement age by various measures, in particular those in the field of labour market policy and health, to the statutory age of entry. [[Abg. Rossmann: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Really not!]] We have also repeatedly declared that, in the sense of insurance justice, we will discuss gradual, planned, manageable increases in insurance periods. You can read that at any time! [[Call the liberals:Where?]] There are no other statements after the election. I'll give you proof of that. My statements are the same after the election as they were before the election. I do not change my mind and statements as other politicians do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to mention them in this regard. Next point: They quoted from the "standard" that in Austria we had long since realized the model of the "Alliance for Work". That's right! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] That's right, as it stands in there: In Austria it was the good labour market policy, the good employment policy. Now I am by no means aware of the difficulties – they have always existed – and not the seriousness of the situation in which we are now in. Of course, we need to take further action, but the basis of our policy was always the alliance between government and social partners, which is essentially a "union for work". You will hardly find a meaningful measure in the "Ally for Labour" that is in Germany and that you are now trying to copy, which has not long been set up in Austria. A special social partners agreement on the construction industry was also encouraged. It is to be said that we had an inter-ministerial discussion about this already in the pre-election period; this was also mentioned by Minister Ditz. In this interministerial discussion on the "Alliance for Work" in the construction industry, the relevant ministers – the Minister of Transport, Finance, Economic Ministers and Social Ministers – together with the social partners agreed in autumn that infrastructure expenditure for the construction industry, which will secure Austria's economic capacity in the future and create jobs in the construction industry as soon as possible, will continue. Mr Ditz mentioned earlier what was decided in the construction and construction sector. Investments of 12 billion Schilling were decided for the next five years in accordance with the Federal Railway Act and the High Performance Track Act. These investments amounting to 12 billion Schillings, which have been established in accordance with the Federal Railways Act, cover around 20,000 workers each year outside the Austrian Federal Railways. This measure, which is important for future, environmentally friendly infrastructure development and which secures 20 000 jobs for construction workers and workers in other sectors, in sectors outside the railway sector, next year, was actually only attacked by one – and that is surprising! No, you just have to look back at one biterl; he was, as I said, the only one who has attacked this measure and has thus taken action to ensure that 20 000 jobs in the economy are not secured for five years – by your business spokesman Peter Rosenstingl. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: By Caspar Einm!]] In a broadcast... [[Call the liberals and counter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's the truth! Here you appear, after the festival, long too late! At the end of January, you demand measures for the construction industry that were taken in September, October, November, and the only one who really wants to attack them and thus prevent jobs is your Peter Rosenstingl. I think you should be better informed in your own party.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3065	Mr Dr Höchtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3094	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Dr. Haider! I think I can say that thanks to many political groups in Austria, God is not only thinking about increasing unemployment, but also working out proposals for solutions. In recent years, this government has been heavily involved in the implementation of solutions to the creation of many additional, tens of thousands of jobs. There has been no need for a special session to draw up thoughts about how we can cope with unemployment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I am always in favour of finding additional solutions in joint discussions, and of making additional proposals. I would only ask that, if we do, we do so in a very serious way. I take this as an example the demand for a reduction in the additional wage costs for which no one is supposed to pay. I believe that it is sometimes driven in the discussion on the issue of additional wage costs really Schindluder. What are the additional wage costs? – These are contributions to health insurance, accident insurance, pension insurance, Christmas and holiday benefits. I ask you: If all of this is to be reduced, whose burden is that if it is not to be done at the expense of the workers? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we want to have a discussion, let us try to make serious proposals. Let us also say that if we make a proposal on how to cover it, and we do not propose something that is not feasible. That is unscrupulous, and that is also irresponsible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That we have to make enormous structural changes in a dynamic society, in a dynamic economy, is logical. Let us take only one of the social groups that has suffered and suffered the most under structural change in the past decades. Take Austrian agriculture to see the dimension of structural change due to this dynamic development. In this so important sector of the economy, there has been a total reduction of 800 000 people within four decades. Thank God it was possible by means of a skillful economic and employment policy to accommodate these 800 000 people in the industrial and service sectors. That is what we call the right answer to structural problems, and I believe that we are now and in the coming years called for to solve such problems, but I am convinced that we will deal with them if only we want to. And that's what we want! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One aspect of how it is that we will undoubtedly never go away from the achievement which we particularly appreciate and which also finds international recognition, namely the achievement that despite all the tensions of social peace in Austria could be maintained. But what is social peace? – Social peace is the result of efforts of a partnership nature, which means that one strives to deal with each other, to deal with the attitudes of the other and to work together – not in strikes that cost only money and jobs – to find a way. In this context, workers and employers and as a third partner of the State should try to solve the problems common to each other. In the coming years, for which the number of unemployed has been forecast by the economic researchers, I think this kind of partnership is more demanding than ever. But I believe that workers and employers, together with the Federal Government, are able to face these major challenges effectively. I'm convinced: We will successfully deal with this problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Economic and social science is quite clear: Prognosis is not intended to be suspended without participation without action, but rather to cause us to say: We don't want that to happen. In my opinion, the latest IHS and WIFO forecasts are aimed at mobilising the partnership between workers and employers even more strongly than before. With the help of this partnership – through new ideas; I will come to talk to some – we do not want these horror forecasts to occur. This is to be the common will of workers and employers – because we are convinced that every unemployed person in Austria is a unemployed person too much. This is our common view, which is a human view. To this we stand, and for this we must work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! New ideas are in demand. We have developed a number of new ideas – of course within the framework of the respective parties; I am now speaking for the People's Party. One of the views was that we should start a new phase, namely a phase in which, for example, apprentices should be prepared to take the risk of setting up a company after they have completed their profession or other employees. I believe that the "free savings" and "primary savings" – there are two deadlines for this model, which has been developed according to the type of construction savings, namely by the People's Party – must be implemented, and we also want to implement it, because we, as employee representatives, know that every newly founded company, each newly founded company in the first three years, creates five new jobs. So if we could put 40 000 to 50 000 such new businesses on the feet in the coming years, this would mean the creation of 200 000 to 250 000 new jobs. That is why it is important to make joint efforts, and that is why it is important to work together successfully, because we want to achieve this in favour of the people concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It cannot be assumed, however, that last year more than 180 000 persons were temporarily unemployed, but they had a commitment to reintroduce and therefore could not be communicated. Why should it not be possible, in a joint effort of all the groups concerned, i.e. workers, businesses and the labour market service, to prevent many of these 180 000 persons from becoming unemployed at all by means of a cleverly negotiated model of annual working time contracts, where everyone is contributing to these 180 000 people? Such ideas, such creative solutions are required! Discussions must be held about this. We should make every effort in the coming weeks to realise such ideas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Another point: If we compare Europe as to how the development of parttime jobs is, we see that in Austria we are going down a mile in comparison with other European Union countries. Throughout Austria, about 10 percent of all jobs are part-time jobs, around 300,000 jobs; at the head of the European Union countries, the Netherlands is leading in this respect, with 36 percent. If we were to have a joint effort by enterprises and workers, for example, to create 5 per cent part-time jobs, so to increase their number from 10 per cent to 15 per cent, this would mean the creation of 150 000 new part-time jobs. That's quite feasible. We have achieved something similar in the public service – for example in the teacher sector. I believe that if this idea were taken up both in the public service and in the private sector, many people, such as women, the profession and the family, would want to agree for a period of about five to ten years, or older people who simply do not want to complete the entire working time required, but only work in part-time, the opportunity to find work. We need new forms of work, forms of work that offer more and more people the opportunity to have work. That is where we are called, and in this direction we must move forward. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: In our view, the fate of many older people who are driven out of the work process early after decades of professional activity is terrible. That is why we have developed a so-called bonus malus system by the People's Party, which means that every holding that employs an unemployed older worker should be given an incentive in the form of a bonus, and any company that detachs an older worker, of course, a tangible penalty, a malus to do so. These are measures that we can jointly develop and enforce and also carry, and we should be committed to implementing them. In this way, we could save many older workers the loss of unemployment and also protect them from the realization that experience suddenly does not count any more. These are values to be communicated to the individual person, namely, that experience still counts something. I believe that what we have gained from additional experience and that what we have acquired through training in knowledge should not be used. For example, if we look in the area of seasonal unemployed, when we look in the part-time area, when we take the bonus-malus system, when we take free-saving or start saving, we realize: Measures have already been developed, ideas have been developed, and this must be done with every strength, with all the effort in the coming months. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The common goal is to save people the tragic fate of unemployment. We are all invited to fulfill this task! I am convinced that this will not allow the economic researchers' forecasts to occur, but by creating many jobs, we can reduce unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3223	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Peter. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3244	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is no doubt that unemployment is the biggest structural European problem we are dealing with today. I admire Mr Höchtl, with what verbal violence he has brought here a lot of common places among us. It is probably not the case that we are fighting unemployment by working around a large number of small, well-informed symptom improvements. Instead, we will have to make the effort to analyse the issue of unemployment as a principle, rather than to analyse it as a European problem. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the industrial society has run into a dead end. It requires increasing capital investment, making more and more people unemployed and at the same time exploiting more and more resources. We must therefore consider the frameworks we have misplaced; Frameworks which have been very successful in the 1950s, 1960s, until the 1980s, but which have not been successful since the mid-1980s, have therefore no longer led to meaningful solutions. The global competition, which has only become possible through the telecommunications revolution, through transport connections and multinational undertakings, is intensifying the whole. Ladies and gentlemen! Work can be relocated today, that is our problem; moveable from one place to another, not even by transporting it in the form of factories, but simply by outsourcing it as work. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Long time ago]] Consider, for example, the frequent accounting of the Austrian airlines, which is made in India. Europe's economic location is in global competition, at least the triad. Fourthly, I think, the amount of real interest rate is an essential point. Today, for a capital owner, it is economic to be among those capitalists who prefer to have the interest on their account written over, rather than to take the money into their own hands and achieve profits with the delivery effect. The real interest rate is ultimately too high. It prevents capital from flowing into productive investment – and there we have a lot of autonomous room for change in Austria – because it is more interesting to put the money on the savings book. We have 3 800 billion Schilling assets in private hands and little risk capital in the companies – this is our problem. The importance of national policy has become smaller. This House should also be aware of all the good proposals that we have heard today. The House should clearly recognise that the importance of national economic policy, national social policy, of course also national environmental policy or transport policy has been reduced and that we must increase our political efforts. In all the important tasks we have to fulfil in our country, the task within the European Union, namely to define new frameworks in the EU, will be to redefine how to evaluate work, how the tax system looks, and so on, in my view, to determine the future. "To death has also died." [[Abg. Kiss: This is a verbal common place!]] So it is important to see hope and find solutions in the chance – and not in the threat. The opening of the east is undoubtedly such an opportunity for Austria. The European Single Market is also an opportunity for Austria, just as it is global trade. Many of the disputants here always call him a threat. I don't think that's right. A small economy like Austria lives by export, which has been underlined today; it also lives on new entrepreneurship. – Mr Dr. Ditz! Not only does the number of entrepreneurs fall, but the starting point is too low. Only 6 percent of the employees in Austria are self-employed. On average, the European Union is 10 percent. For this we expect strategies from this federal government, as we can achieve this value of 10 percent in Austria. The proportion of employees in the service sector is far too low in Austria. We're going to talk about it: 58 percent in the service in Austria, 73 percent in the USA. There are opportunities for an active policy for the future. It is important to create framework conditions for entrepreneurs, for people who have liquid funds that they do not place them on the savings account, not draw them into bonds, but invest themselves as entrepreneurs, or make them available to other companies as equity capital. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Investing is hopeful! . I say that in recent years this Federal Government has not given the companies any hope for the future. It has not made it easier to invest in companies, but it has actually set a variety of signals that make it more difficult to put money into companies. So investment or investment means hope; Hope for a market opportunity, for a chance of yield, but which must face a viable cost structure. Access to entrepreneurship has been largely built in Austria by means of a com pany called the Industrial Code. The joy of entrepreneurship's self-realization, which in fact creates jobs, is no longer present in many areas. It is no longer available because the amount of bureaucratic burden, on conditions, on regulations which the House has decided here year after year, simply makes it no longer attractive to become more self-employed. It is much more attractive to go into the protection of the social network as a self-employed person. Here are some clear demands from us liberals, as we, actively fighting the structural problem, could get unemployment under control in our national scope: The first and most important point: Let's create free access to entrepreneurship! Let us create the current trade order as a budget order and find a new, more liberal form of entry into entrepreneurship, linked to an entrepreneurship obligation! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Wabl: Very good!]] Secondly, to be understood as an example: Let's lift the shop closures. We cannot withdraw from the market. Those who withdraw from the market and the customer's wishes will also be deprived of the opportunity to add value. And those who lose the opportunity to add value are deprived of the opportunity to create jobs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Third point: Let's really reduce labour costs! We raised labour costs in Austria by 115 percent from 1980 to 1994. – The average value in the European Union is 78 percent. We are therefore in the first place in increasing labour costs from all the countries of the European Union. In the end, labour costs alone count for the entrepreneur. How high the gross wage contained in it is and which net wage comes out can only interest the entrepreneur in a second line. So if you've run or run a policy that has cost labour far beyond the level in Europe, you've made work unattractive, or, otherwise, formulated: They have made it attractive to rationalize work. The burden of additional labour costs on energy taxes – if one calls for the abolition of additional labour costs or their reduction – is to say where one wants to charge these tax amounts; that can only be resources and energy taxes – is a measure that has an autonomous margin. Minister for Economic Affairs! The ecological tax reform does not mean increasing indirect taxes on energy, but the environmental tax reform is that we should first open up the double mill and reduce labour costs by using additional labour costs, and only in the second step do we charge only this amount and no other energy and resource tax. There is an autonomous margin, Denmark has been showing us this for a few years with very good results. Long-term planning, gradual implementation, the installation of a social compensation system, the preservation of income neutrality and the use of autonomous scope within an international equation, which in turn can only be achieved at European level, should therefore be taken into account. Fourth: We will probably have to redesign the working world as such. We obviously do not get along with our old rules of the game, but we create with them what we do not want, namely unemployment. It is essential to redesign the working world, together with the employees, especially in the corporate sphere. Six points: First: We will need shorter working hours in the future, but not from above for all types of operations, but different shorter working hours, depending on sectors, according to sectors, yes, partly different according to businesses – think of the example VW. While we may make the first job less attractive – without compensation for wages, with fewer hours – we also offer the opportunity to take on a second job. It is not deplorable, Mr Federal Minister, if someone works only more than 32 hours in an industrial manufacturing process instead of 40 or 38 and because he or she wants additional income in the personal situation, on another day – in the case of a 4-day week – or on further evenings he or she will earn additional money in the service. These are modern forms, such as shorter working hours, which can lead to a comparable income by accepting a second job. Secondly, We will need more individual working hours. – We can only achieve this at the operational level. The operational level is the only place where we can take into account the interests of individual employees, depending on age, according to income et cetera. Thirdly, more flexible working hours. However, we do not mean Kapovaz, not capacity-oriented variable working time, but: to work if one has customers, if the customer demands it, and no longer to deny the customer the market through strict working time regulations. The calculation periods are indispensable. The employee protection – I say it again – will be to be transferred to the internal level. Fourthly, more independent work. This is about the new entrepreneurship. We should allow for self-determined productive work, including through a more free and liberal trade order. This is not about the wage earner, not about the breakthrough of the social network, but about making new forms of work more independent. Fifthly, we will also need to learn to deal with different work. As long as we have inadequacies in social security law, unemployment insurance law, which does not have the necessary pressure on re-trainings – accompanied by the necessary help – to make the transition from one profession to another, we will have on the one hand unemployment and on the other in some sectors labour shortages. I believe that any existing work – regardless of the level of qualification and payment – is ultimately socially important. And we have to go out of it. Sixthly – but not least – we also need a completely new model of the moving exit in the new world of work. The generation of heirs has a different claim to work of age than the generations of 30 or 40 years ago. Today, many people are in a happy position to inherit that they get houses and no longer have rental charges. Let us give them the opportunity, from a certain age, to gradually reduce their working time and thus also to make room for other employees. It will be a great challenge for us entrepreneurs to deal with this flexible working world, with this slipping exit, with new timetables, with extended production times, with a Saturday as a working day, but perhaps only more of a 4-day week. These are modern models that we should consider if we really want to fight unemployment! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The reduction of red tape, the reduction of the paralysing obstacle to entrepreneurs, has been discussed very often. Minister Ditz also promised him today. I'm excited how many times I'm gonna listen to that. When will this red tape finally come, ladies and gentlemen? Where are the measures to increase the amount of innovation capital from equity and risk capital? Where do the equity financing stay? Where's the stock exchange? Where's your model that you've been announcing for years, a model to really put the stock market in action? Where is your model for creating a venture capital market in Austria? This would be the prerequisite for the perception of future opportunities, for the perception of additional market opportunities and thus for job creation in an export-oriented Austria. Mr. Dr. Ditz! I am not of your opinion with regard to the investment exemption. What we have today as an investment allowance is a kind of casting pot, a casting pot with 6 to 8 percent that does not help anyone. Has They have the courage to focus the investment allowance, raise it to 25 percent, but give it a full focus on research and development investment and on environmental investment and, above all, to grant it where intangible investments in businesses can be activated for four years and are rewarded with a 25 percent investment exemption. These are the opportunities for immaterial investment, namely investment in market development, in employee training, in product maturity. There are opportunities for export, opportunities to win new markets. Ladies and gentlemen! I even think that we are making a very big mistake when we talk about the economy and jobs here in the House and always have our own situation in mind. I suggest that we look at the situation of demand, customer and market only once. There are, in fact, the prospects for the future, and there are jobs in reserve. As a last point, I almost repeat the privatisation proposal like a prayer mill. There is no country in Western Europe that has as high a share of its own land and land as Austria. The state of Austria has over 10,000 square kilometres of this country. The State has a variety of shares and equity. Ladies and gentlemen! Why don't you have the courage to sell substantial state property to the Austrians – with 3 800 billion Schilling wealth formation in private hands? Why don't you have the courage to gain financial scope in this way, not to cover debts with these funds, but to fulfil the state's task with these funds, the state's task of infrastructure investment, to the protection of monuments, to environmental renewal and transport infrastructure? In the generous, comprehensive privatisation there is the opportunity to quickly obtain high billions of money today and in the coming years, which could then be used in the sense of the exchange of assets. The proceeds from the sale of a share of assets would be invested in the state infrastructure needed to preserve economic power. Ladies and gentlemen! We will be discussing unemployment for a long time today. If we do not have the courage and the strength to rethink the working world in principle, we will not go beyond small detailed measures. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3348	As the next speaker, Mr Deputies has been reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3369	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is in principle positive in any case that we are discussing employment, employment opportunities, employment opportunities and not just unemployment. This debate today, I believe, also gives the opportunity to go into a few details. It has already been mentioned: Over the last ten years, the status of employees in Austria has increased by more than 300 000. Half of this increase in employment goes back to private enterprises, the other half to public services in the broadest sense. We need to talk about a problem as a challenge, not a problem as a problem. I already mentioned this elsewhere. If one were to bring together the 295,000 unemployed purely technically, Linz and Klagenfurt would be without work if one took the population of these cities as a measure. Since my previous speaker meant that it was simply a matter of putting positive signs, I must say that I am convinced that, for example, the industrial policy proposal that the Social Democrats have put on the table in the context of the election campaign is a very positive sign, because otherwise it would not be the major industrial settlements that have occurred within Austria in recent years, even in the future, if they are already known. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe – and this is nothing new – that there is certainly no miracle recipe. It is about dealing with measures. We had the problem years ago that communication between those who offered work and those who sought work was not always the best. They know that jobs in the newspapers were often unknown to the labour market administration, as it was then called. It is a fact that due to the reorganisation of the labour market service there is certainly a better understanding between supply and demand on both sides and that, above all, the regionalisation of the labour market service makes it possible to make a correspondingly better on-the-spot decision. Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that we have been thinking intensively since last year about employment opportunities in the construction sector. We, the Social Democrats, believed last year that it would be very useful to clarify the road pricing system, the toll question more quickly. This was not achieved at the time. I am glad that a new approach has been adopted in this direction today. It is also a fact that it is better not to promote consumption and thus practically the import of goods and goods from abroad, but to promote the infrastructure of a country. This is not about endless road development, but about the fact that the better infrastructure in the end also offers a better economic opportunity. Another problem that had to be addressed – some previous speakers have already said this – is: Of course, we would have been faced with the problem of letting workers in different areas become unemployed. Considering the food industry, we think of the customs sector, we are thinking of the problem that has already been raised today by banks and insurance companies, which will come to our attention in the future. But it is wrong to describe this condition only. I think it is much more useful to see what has happened in many of these areas, that through the work foundation, an active design of the time of unemployment is allowed, and that people are not only provided financially, but ultimately have a better chance of re-entry by means of a corresponding qualification measure. We have known for some time that we have difficulty in building. I am convinced that improvements would also be necessary here. In my opinion, it should be more offensive for individual entrepreneurs. What do I mean by that? – We have a model in the construction industry, which is intended to attend a construction craftsman’s school during the period of unemployment, a model that is also financed. However, this is only possible by means of separate agreements between employers and employees because of the change in the unemployment insurance law. So far, so good. This also works in some areas. We have problems in Carinthia and in Styria that already started training measures that have been introduced before 1994/95 are simply "hanging" by refusing entrepreneurs to conclude individual agreements. Result: People just don't get trained anymore, they just get the unemployment benefit. – In my opinion, a wrong approach. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why does this have to depend on the entrepreneur? – You were always against it!]] Because that's agreed in the collective agreement. This has been agreed by both sides. Deputies! They're always talking about personal responsibility. If you are responsible for yourself, I think that the will of employers must be there, too, to support it accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It seems equally important to me to talk about the qualifications as a whole. We received the 1995 vocational training report in these days. It deals with some aspects of vocational training. I am not convinced that the sequence mentioned in this report is correct, that training should be solid and continuous in the field of business. I believe that if we are serious about the dual system, we need a good link between vocational school and business and should not always play an area against the other. It should be thought that the success of the examination should be desired in particular in apprenticeship training in some professions; that is at least my opinion. I have to quote my own profession, gas and water supply installer: If only 68 percent reach the test goal here, this shows that you have to think about whether there is no better opportunity to qualify than to increase – I accept this as a critical remark – exam taxes. It is not necessarily of economical use if you want to increase the test tax from 500 S to 1000 S within the shortest time. I don't think that's a qualification feature. Ladies and gentlemen! I already said it: Individual examples should also be dealt with. If I hear from the liberals, you should start the crafts school again, I have the feeling that you are jumping back in history quite enormously. We already had such models in our country: Future schools, craft schools with tuition fees. It is also in the programme of the liberals – point 18, point 12 – that it is necessary to make a personal contribution to this craft school. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Perhaps this is an opportunity to clarify this once. The programme says that it is necessary to make an own contribution, and we should say that clearly. For example, since higher unemployment benefits are required in case of skills improvement – point 9 of the liberal programme – I must say: Unfortunately, they have not taken care of it, for that is already the case. Today, if a person is more qualified in the time of unemployment, he will receive a higher compensation than only the unemployment benefit. – So that's already realized. Another point, point 3 of the liberal programme, is that the insolvency fund should not only serve to finance pleas. I agree with this statement. It is not a fund for the financing of pleas, as it could be mistakenly understood, but the insolvency compensation fund is nothing but a substitute for wages and salaries for work already done. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: And people don't see any money! Did people get their money at the "consum"?]] In the past, for example, the support of the trade unions will be given. If the incentive to invest in jobs does not work, we will do so in the same way that we have recently received an international message. The Director-General of the American company AT&T announced that he would cancel 7,000 employees, and then the stock prices would rise. Do we really want to grow into a dividend company in the future? Or should it not be more of an employment society, ladies and gentlemen? Research and development have been mentioned several times today. I am convinced that it would make sense to use the time ahead of us to think about why a construction model has become so attractive to some investors. Why can't you rethink this model and use it for research and development, for example, in the direction that the yield from a product resulting from it will ultimately also be used to cover existing capital? In my opinion, this is very intensive in employment, it creates work, and it is not about any tax gifts. I do not think it would fit together if, on the one hand, the free movement programme called for work, but on the other hand, one is not to re-occupy planning sites. We need to get used to this black and white thinking. Rather, we should consider where it makes sense to create jobs differently where it makes sense to secure employment in the future. In my opinion, a reduction in unemployment benefit does not create a single job. Considering the level of Austrian unemployment benefit in the international comparison, it becomes clear that the replacement rate is rather in the middle and lower field and not in the upper field. This is why I am saying this because in our country we are often argued that the level of unemployment benefit is a dissociation of some of the work. In my opinion, this is one of the biggest misdemeanors in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Why does the Minister of Social Affairs want to limit it?]] The Minister for Social Affairs does not limit it, but he does something that belongs to it, namely to eliminate abuse at every level. Mr Haider! For me, it is not possible for an entrepreneur to say: I am setting an unemployed person at a low level, but he must be unemployed and get unemployment support; then I pay him 3 500 s and pay him 5 000 s in black, and then he has the income he actually needs. This abuse must be restricted! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Freeze the upper pay categories!]] Mr Haider! Because you address the top category: In my opinion, we should also be aware of what you understand. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what the Social Minister says!]] He says the adjustment should be reconsidered. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it makes sense in this context to re-examine the issue of abuse. I would be particularly interested in how it should work, on the one hand, to criticise the financial resources of labour market promotion, but on the other hand to finance a career year for employees with 80 percent over unemployment benefit. I don't know how it works. It would be desirable if the Freedom Party would once explain how it wanted to create a career year for some 600 000 Austrians in employee status, in which 80 percent of the salary would be replaced by labour market promotion. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You argued already failed!]] I just quoted item 14 of your own press service. Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, it is to be questioned what the Freedom Party means by "more time autonomy for businesses". I am convinced that it is more useful to think about new forms of working time, which on the one hand ensure employment and, on the other hand, to develop the local advantage in Austria accordingly. It is about permanently reducing overtime. I know what I'm talking about. It's not that easy to enforce in the businesses, because some employee says: That's how you take something away from my income. However, if we do not have sufficient work and the unemployment rate is rising, I think we must also think about these areas. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: How do you do this in the public service? How are you doing with the executive? You have to hire new cops, but you want to cut off!]] I say we have to think about it. This would also be an opportunity to achieve a corresponding employment effect. I am personally convinced that the reduction of working time can also be re-thinked in education. And because the subject of part-time work is so often addressed here, I would also like to make a comment on this. Part-time work may well be a form of working time for a certain period of life. But if you look at the Austrian statistics of the unemployed, you will find that, unlike five years ago, more and more single-time earnings are becoming unemployed and in this case part-time work means nothing but what has been published in America in the previous year, for example, where one has become famous: 7 million new jobs, and behind him stood one and said, Unfortunately, I have three of them. It cannot be the goal that the new world of work looks like a full - time job no longer comes out, but needs three or four in order to be able to live at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps this was a treasonous sentence of Mr Haider – if I understood him correctly –: Statistics you write yourself; savings package of the FPÖ; Programs you write yourself. 1994: point 2: Community compulsory work. Point 3: Job creation in low-paid areas. Point 6: Stop using the labour market service. Point 10: General social service. Point 11: Conversion period during the change in working time. Point 17: Staff Regulations of Officials. Ladies and gentlemen! You see, it is already interesting to deal with the plans of the Freedom Party. You could still do this: The collective contract policy should be pushed back in favour of strengthening the autonomous Berry Agreement, and on the employee side all wage and price negotiations should be conducted exclusively by the works councils or legally legitimate bodies and not by the ÖGB. – Read more to Mr Brauneder, an article, "because the country has to change". [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You should say something about the jobs!]] You can choose who you're holding. On the one hand, you keep us in mind that we do not have enough to deal with you, and if it becomes unpleasant, we will deal with you too closely. That's the problem that the Freedom Party always has. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Further in the new programme of the Freemans, the 18-point programme. Point 6: Residential offensive. Here it is required that the reserves be dissolved. The Styrian State Councillor Schmid, who, according to my information, is responsible for housing and brass music, is baffled that he is not mad enough to move to the hospital resort, because he has a really good reserve of 1.5 billion Schilling housing promotions on the high edge. – Reading in the Styrian leaves. I think there would be something to do here if we wanted to set up employment initiatives. If we in Europe are fighting for employment in connection with the Maastricht criteria to be considered equivalent, then we must not talk to divided tongues. In my opinion, acting in a speedy manner also presupposes that we act together internationally. I believe that we must make every effort to ensure that employment is done before dividends, that we create a climate for the future in which we can take advantage of the opportunities of our skills potential, but also of the operating structures in Austria, that we facilitate the financing of such projects, and that we see skills above all as a future option and not only as a cost factor. Motivation for employment does not need an alliance for headlines, but hard work in detail if we are to succeed in achieving work for all.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3536	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Haider, for his excellent report. Deputies! You know the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to begin your correction with the claim that you want to correct. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3560	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am correct in correcting Mr Vergestnich's statement that I meant those reserves that Mr Schmid spoke of in Styria. [[Abg. Conspicuous: Not you, the state councillor Schmid!]] I'm talking about the reserves of the housing cooperatives. These are the funds that housing cooperatives have used as capital and which are not funding, such as in the "Economic Sheet" of 24. In January 1996, the head of the non-profit housing company, who is also your party friend, admits to itself that it is a failure of policy not to involve these own resources in the funding system. If this were to be made conditional, billions more would flow into housing and therefore the funding could be increased for even more housing. [[Abg. Where is the clarification?]] Mr Vergestnitsch knows this report and knows its comrades as well, and he knows very well that it is those measures that would actually lead to the sole purpose of securing thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3609	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3631	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! All that goes beyond half a percent unemployment is immoral. This sentence was not said in this debate, but it comes from the British Minister of Labour – not from that of the Conservative Government, but from a British Minister of Labour from the 1950s. All that goes beyond half a percent unemployment! – These are tough standards, ladies and gentlemen! I have not yet seen a speaker here at the Pult, who would have addressed the issue of full employment with only one word. There was a lot of talk about unemployment, I admit, but no one has yet talked about full employment. [[Abg. Koppler: They left it to you!]] Thank you, colleague Koppler. However, I would have expected social-democratic Members to speak about it. [[Abg. Koppler: There will be some more!]] In the 1960s and 1970s, the formula was: Full employment is then possible if there is no more than 3 per cent unemployed. In a response to a question to the Greens, Social Minister Hums also spoke of 3 per cent full employment. Only: In the meantime, the 3 percent others have become 3 percent. This is no longer the old 3 percent of about 100,000 or a little less unemployed. The 3 per cent unemployed are no longer those under the OECD Directives, but these are now those under the ILO Directives. This means that 3 per cent of the unemployed are already nearly 200 000 people in this discussion. But this obviously does not bother anyone in this country, because 3 per cent are still somehow tolerable. We seem to have gotten used to a lot in this country. But one thing we should not actually get used to: unemployment and the fact that this unemployment will continue to rise. As I look closer to what has been said by the economic researchers in recent months: We have not yet reached the summit of unemployment with our almost 300,000 unemployed in January of this year, they say. A boost threatens unemployment. This has been confirmed by Mr Wörgotter from the Institute for Higher Studies, which was confirmed by the Wifo in November. It has been said that we are expected to receive much more than the current unemployed, between 8 and 9 per cent unemployment after conventional Austrian counting, as we were used to a few years ago. 8 to 9, possibly 10 percent! One thing is not yet included in these calculations, and it has not yet been discussed today: What happens when the savings package 1, whose effects will only be felt now, and the savings package 2, the effects of which we are likely to get to know only in the next few months? What happens if, at European level, the savings packages of all European countries begin to take hold if not only growth but also employment rates in all European countries will decrease accordingly and unemployment will be accelerated? Wifo-chef Kramer already said in November that in the longer term an approach to the European average was to be feared. – Ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? Is that a natural law against which we can't defend ourselves? Is this the law of fear that we simply have to expect, with which policy is being made here in this country, with which people are told: It doesn't use anything anyway, what are we supposed to do?, as we heard on Sunday's "A cause": What's the point of resisting it? We are only a small country, what can we do in the international sector, at international or European level? Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to read to you what has been said here in this blue booklet on unemployment and the EU: [[The speaker keeps the EU brochure "The Book" up to date]] "The high unemployment rate in some EC Member States is a consequence of these countries' economic policies and not of EC membership." Do you take this sentence seriously, ladies and gentlemen, also from the government? – Then you have to blame yourself for failing to do so on the issue of employment policy, unemployment. It is not the EU, it is economic policy here in this country, and it is you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who have the responsibility of increasing unemployment in recent years, rising to these high values and likely to continue to rise in the next few years. You have the responsibility to bear it and obviously not the EU, or you said something wrong to us when you published this blue book, because at that time you also found yourself in the blue book: "The Economic Research Institute predicts an EC accession after six years of 55 000 additional jobs." Ladies and gentlemen! They all know the same as I do that these 55 000 additional jobs are about like the blue one from the sky. You have just promised and know very well that you can't keep it that you don't want to comply with it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who is now sitting here as a Member, said yesterday in the "ZiB": We will have to think of the wages in order to remain competitive within Europe. I would like to read again from the blue booklet what has been said in it on the subject of wages in Austria, Mr President: "In the medium term, an increase in wage levels will occur in Austria." [[Abg. Wabl: Original quote Maderthaner!]] In the medium term! Of course, Mr President, in the medium term, the increase in wage levels must take place only in five years, but, ladies and gentlemen, you know just as I do, it is also not in view in the medium term. What we are debating here in this House for some time now is a reduction in wage costs. And that's the wrong recipe. It is the completely wrong recipe, and you know, just as I do, that wage costs alone cannot be blamed for the development of unemployment in that country. I quote from a comment in the "Presse" of 27. year(s) "In order to come to really efficient strategies – in the fight against unemployment – "the labour market situation will probably have to be looked at in a holistic way." And a Wifo expert says: "No single cause is responsible for the increase in unemployment in Europe." – Not a single measure, not a single cause. There is also no example in economic history where such drastic savings in wages could have overcome an employment crisis in the budget. On the contrary! In the current debate on Europe's savings rate, more and more economic researchers, more and more economic experts are warning that this drastic saving rate will not only ruin this European social state in terms of wages, budgets, but also reduce the economy and thus employment in Europe even further and collide growth. The government here in this country – apart from the fact that you have not given a very courageous picture today and presented what you intend to do in the fight against unemployment – wants to save in the wrong place: in expenditure for the unemployed. Yes, unemployment is increasing in Austria. What is the recipe of this federal government that it offered before the elections? - Reductions! Reductions in unemployment benefits, reductions also in the field of active labour market policy. It is also a threat, Mr Hums, if you say here that the funds for active labour market policy will not be reduced. This is a threat in view of the fact that Austria is in Europe the country which is the lowest in terms of its unemployment rate. The lowest spending! I read from the last Wifo monthly report from January: Total expenditure on active labour market policies, as measured by GDP, was 0.27 percent in 1987, 1994 – this is not so long down – "0.22 percent." In other countries active labour market policies are spent: in Denmark 1.81 percent – which is also measured by the unemployment rate, a lot more –, in the Netherlands 1.21 percent, and in Sweden 2.95 percent. This is tenfold for active labour market policy, although the unemployment rate in these countries is not the tenfold of the Austrian rate. Therefore: Non-increasing resources for active labour market policies is not a good promise in times when unemployment is rising here in this country, Mr Minister, it is just the administration of the status quo. You say it will be no different, we will stay at this state of affairs, but that is not enough, Minister. Nor does it concern – even if this is not your policy – that it is discussed to continue saving the unemployed. You know the debate, Minister. We will be presented again in the coming weeks and months – we have heard it today here in this round – and we will be discussing again the fact that the replacement rate for the unemployed is too high. Mr Haider, in his proposal catalogue, also said that the unemployed should actually get a little less. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that measures need to be taken here. Minister, why don't you have the courage to say: Expenditure on active labour market policies must be increased!Unknown term type: "%s".? We need a contribution – you and other ministers have stressed this over and over again before you – that we need a contribution from all for active labour market policies, for active labour market promotion. Why is the debate on the contribution of all other groups, the debate on the solidarity contribution that officials, liberals and self-employed people should make? Of course, we need this if we really want to make an active contribution to the fight against unemployment through labour market policy. And, of course, we need measures such as work leave – similar to in Denmark – because they make sense because they also mean the future in the field of the labour market, because it makes sense to interrupt working life – either for educational reasons or because one simply cannot. We experience again and again, and very often, that people are waiting to get this opportunity. Why can't working life be interrupted? Why should there not be a little more flexibility in everyday work? And that's also financeable. [[Abg. Dr. Feurstein: But you have to explain that!]] A little more scepticism is attached to what you are recommending as a major progress, which is obviously already agreed between the social partners: the bonus malus system. The bonus malus system for the employment of older workers, ladies and gentlemen, is not a particularly good idea. I wish it could get hold of you, but you know the same way I do. It can't work. The compensation tax did not apply to the setting up of the disabled. I do not think that this bonus malus in the area of older workers is going to be grasped, as is the case with the disabled. If someone wants to cancel an older employee, then he will stop him with 49 3/4 years in the future, and not 50 1/2 years if someone wants to exchange workers, then he will probably use the 45-year-old woman – Mr. Feurstein – in the future, because women are already out of the labour market at the age of 45. You know that just as I do. I do not think that these measures can be taken. I'd like to. But I would also like the government and the political parties, the social partners here, to address the matter with a little more courage and to actively promote the employment of older workers, as was done in the Federal Republic of Germany. This does not necessarily require a compensatory tax. It is only necessary to tell the people what value older workers can represent in a farm. That's not going to be enough, it's clear to me, but it's a step forward. It is obvious that it is no longer a value in this country to employ older workers in a farm. One thing I have to say to the bonus malus: You may be able to employ older workers to a modest extent, but if this is not linked to employment policy, who will be exchanged with older workers? – Against the younger! In comparison with the regional unemployment statistics of the individual Länder, it is already observed that in those federal states where the proportion of older workers in the unemployed is very high, the proportion of younger workers in the unemployed is very low, whereas in the federal states where the younger unemployed are very common, there is a high rate that older workers have a very low rate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Feurstein.]] Of course, these evaluations – there are, Mr Feurstein, you should also read them – are to be enjoyed with due caution, but actually it is: There is an exchange of older workers against younger workers. Why, ladies and gentlemen, in order to take another example, another measure that is necessary in addition to active labour market policies to combat unemployment, why, apart from Mr Peter's contribution to the Liberal Forum, which has also made this very embarrassing and, of course, with his liberal note, has not yet been addressed in any way, the subject of reduction of working time? Not a reduction in working time in the sense that it was a matter of ensuring full wage compensation for existing employment. In the event of a reduction in working time and a division of work, it can only be done in the future to bring the unemployed back into employment. And that was part of the pact for employment proposed by the German IG Metall. This is what she wanted to bring in and negotiate with the employers, and there has been great willingness and a discussion in the Federal Republic of Germany. This is the real revolution: that a trade union was ready for the first time, even on the point that there will be a loss in wages to actually accept the issue of the division of labour between all and thus the creation of new jobs. That is the really progressive one on this question! Why can't we get a better distribution of work in this country? Why do they have no work at all and are not allowed to work, and the others perish in overtime? That is the reality in this country! Why is it not possible to develop working time models, including those which are socially compatible? Annual working time contracts, for example! Why should it not be possible to create appropriate social protection which prevents people from killing themselves in the workplace, but where there is still flexibility? Why should it not be possible in Austria to go new ways and take a step forward here and in this way come to a reduction of overtime and to an end of this unkind hustle and bustle after overtime? Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, an economic researcher, Mr. Geldner, said: The reduction in life-time work over retirement is a high cost, and he would have wished that years ago, before this early retirement wave began, the path would have gone into the reduction of daily and weekly working hours, because it would indeed have been the cheaper and probably the more effective way. But in Austria this path is linked to the reduction of weekly working hours, to the development of new working time models with a taboo, not only from the economic side, but also the trade union side obviously does not even dare to address this issue again. Back to the topic of wage costs, because it was most often attracted here. Wage costs are too high, especially the additional wage costs – that has been said over and over again. I'll read you a few quotes: Economic researcher Guger: "The zero round doesn't solve problems. The difference – and it is also an answer to Mr. Haider – "between the domestic and the eastern wages is 10 : 1. It also does nothing and does not protect against emigration if we save on additional wage costs. It also does not use anything and does not protect against deportation when we make one, two or three zero son rounds. That's still not enough." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] The German Institute for Economic Research, Mr. Haigermoser – but it is obviously not Her primary task of reading such things – says about the German wage costs: [[Abg. Haigermoser: Thank you, Mr. Oberlehrer!]] "It is not up to the wages, but rather it was the currency appreciation that had harmed the competitiveness of German companies." Still I refer to this: It wasn't a cause alone. It is also not the appreciation of the Austrian currency, because we are linked to the monetary union, which alone is the cause, but it should nevertheless be noted that at least to the same extent that you claim the high wages, it is the monetary costs, Mr Haigermoser, the monetary costs by the monetary union, which actually lead to these higher wage costs. The head of the IHS, Bernhard Felder, says, Mr Haigermoser, that the often over-criticized wage costs are also not the decisive location criterion internationally. In the meantime, staff costs account for only more than 26 percent of the total cost, Mr. Haigermoser, if you understand. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, please!]] 26 percent! More to a small part, wage costs are actually responsible for the total cost of a product. In this context, labour costs are essential, not labour costs, but unit labour costs. The unit labour costs, Mr Haigermoser! There is also productivity. You also have to take into account productivity. [[Abg. Madl: You are not talking about the service sector!]] They have to deal with these thinking models once. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] Mr Gunther Tichy, Professor of Economics in Graz, said on the debate on additional labour costs, Mr Haigermoser: "The discussion about the additional wage costs is already on my nerves" – that's not mine, Tichy says – "because it's a pure arithmetic phenomenon after all." [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't leave!]] And that is really the case, Mr Haigermoser. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Don't leave me, colleague.]] Depending on whether you calculate hourly costs at wage costs or whether you calculate annual costs, something quite different comes out of it. It matters something completely different, whether I'm 13th and 14th. salary in annual costs or not. Of course, this is not the case with the hourly costs. I think, ladies and gentlemen, above all of the liberals, you should, before you go out with your big proposals, with the Alliance for Jobs, actually consider whether they are compatible with your other ideas on economic policy, which you have very often spread here in recent months. What, besides your promises, is everything going to be cheaper, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals? I would like to point out to you what is to be cheaper for older workers for service providers, the long-term unemployed through cheaper entry wages, the low-cost wage workers through wage subsidies, which is an aspect of the 46- or 47-points programme, the young workers in the service sector by introducing a full seasonal model without quotas, all workers by holding back the wages in the context of a wage-price pact, the unemployed by increasing the difference between employment income and employment relations and employee and employers' representatives by reducing the amount of roomwork. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Good suggestions!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Now I understand what Mr. Haider always means to the "little people". Now I understand what's behind it. He actually wants to make people small. That is what Mr Haider means, and that is what you want to sell us economic policy here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! What we need from you are not cheap promises, but ideas. You didn't have any ideas. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's where the government sits!]] Right, too, the government! The government too today has indeed shone by the absence of ideas, because it is not enough simply to refer to the trans-European networks for investment in the future, to the great technologies through which we will also participate in this country through which jobs are created in this country. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What are your suggestions, colleague?]] That's not enough. [[Abg. Haigermoser: But?]] I say it to you, Mr Haigermoser, of course. I warn of the great hopes of the new technologies! I warn of the great hopes of hard technologies! - I can still talk. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Back to Colchose!]] ==References== 10. In 1995, long before the US telephone group AT&T announced the termination of 50,000 workers, it said: "Hopes on new jobs are early in the field of telecommunications." And you added: "The negligent handling of facts arouses hopes that are not justified." Ladies and gentlemen! In our view, the step forward would be a comprehensive eco-tax, through the long-term increase in energy tariffs. You, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, owe us the explanation of how you want to finance it. You have just said that you want to reduce VAT. You didn't tell us to what extent you actually want to increase the fuel price – by 3 S, by 4 S? We've figured this out. According to your proposals, the fuel price would be increased by about 3 to 4 s. 3 to 4 S! You're supposed to say that honestly, too. We recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that you have decided here and today to increase the price of petrol that you also want to go this way, but you should say clearly and clearly that you want to increase the price of petrol. You can no longer play the big lobby, the defenders of the low fuel price with the drivers and the gas station owners, just because Mr Meischberger is a gas station owner by chance. This time is over, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! You have to confess, you have to say what you really want in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3875	Deputies! I must interrupt in two minutes so that we can deal with urgent questions. Please take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3890	How little you have to look at the environment, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, that proves only the fact that you are "devoting" with the urgent request you have made here, an urgent request on the subject of the environment. [[Abg. Haigermoser: What are these words?]] Because nothing else has happened to you in the run-up to our urgent request. Jobs against the environment, this is the message you convey here and today. That's the "concept" for which you're obvious, and the confession to something eco-tax will not help you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How much you "estimate" democracy in this House, your party observer Haider demonstrated a few days ago when he explained on television what requests you will make today, for which you are promoting support. We have just received these requests! So far, you've been holding back your requests. They have not been able to distribute them to the Members to vote on them in just a few hours. A few days ago, your partyobmann Haider announced these applications and advertised support for them. So you've had it a few days ago.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3935	Ladies and gentlemen! We have started today's sitting at 16.03 a.m., so I am now interrupting the debate on this item at 7.03 p.m. Request for urgent procedure by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on record unemployment (14/J)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e3964	We are now coming to deal with the two urgent questions in accordance with the rules of procedure – three hours after the beginning of the meeting. First of all, I call the written question 14/J. In the meantime, this question has been distributed to all Members of Parliament, and there is therefore a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4096	I now give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dolinschek is the first questioner to answer this question. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, your speech must not exceed 40 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4126	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The economic forecasts for Austria are poor. There is no increase to be expected, on the contrary: Economic forecasts have been revised again and again down in recent months. A wave of pleas overwhelmed Austria over the past few years, and the situation is growing more and more each year. Many businesses are affected by insolvency, the situation on the labour market is precarious. We have recorded the highest unemployment rate in Austria since the end of the war. The level of employment, ladies and gentlemen, which has increased slightly in recent years – in contrast to the rapid rise in unemployment – is expected to fall rather than increase in the next few years. Last year – 1995 – the number of industrial workers fell by around 2%. Most jobs were lost in the clothing industry, namely about 10.5 percent. And the total number of industrial workers in Austria, which since 1980 has been close to 670 000, declined for the first time to less than 500 000, about 460 000. In the crisis-stricken construction industry last year, 7.9% of jobs were lost, and the prospects of this industry for this year are still trister. For if one can believe the broadcasts of the Chamber of Commerce, it fears an overall decline of 15,000 to 20,000 people in this sector this year. In addition to rising unemployment in the textile, food and food industries, as well as enormous unemployment in the construction sector, the Wifo predicts an additional burden on the labour market also in the agricultural sector, from which around 7,000 jobseekers can be expected. Ladies and gentlemen! We all remember advertising before joining the EU: "The upswing must benefit everyone!", at that time our Federal Chancellor had this posterated. Where there are difficulties in adapting, the SPÖ will ensure that the negative effects are eliminated. The Federal Chancellor has promised that no one will be abandoned. Austria will be able to preserve and expand its pioneering role as a model welfare state. – So Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vranitzky. "Create jobs quickly now," our Federal Chancellor promised the Austrians in the 1995 election campaign. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been a negative record since the 1950s in Austria with about 300 000 unemployed. The trend is rising. The unemployment rate could even rise above the EU level of 10 per cent, because the fight for the achievement of Maastricht criteria also increases the pressure of rationalisation in Austria and thus aggravates the critical situation of the Austrian labour market. For example, the savings measures in the public sector – in the postal sector approximately 6 000 jobs are lost by the end of 1998, 2 000 jobs per year – are lost. In the financial and service sectors, i.e. banks and insurance companies, 17 000 jobs are at risk by competitive pressure. In trade, the cost pressure has already been fully used. In the food sector alone, 2 500 jobs were lost in the first five months of the previous year. A dramatic development is expected, particularly in industry: Experts are predicting a reduction of 460 000 jobs by 120,000 over the next ten years. Little work is distributed to more people, is a slogan of the socialists in Austria. [[Abg. Not just this one!]] I say: create more work! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Vergestnitsch! You said earlier here that the Austrian workers deserve something too little; the work there must be divided into more people, for example by re-trainings and so on. This is all good and beautiful, but the Austrian workers see it a little differently. It's about their income. The overtime surcharges are massively taxed today, so that people are no longer willing to work longer. [[Abg. Permanent overtime!]] But they want to earn more, so they are forced to work in leisure time in the coup in order to obtain an income they can no longer earn at their regulated workplace. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If people make more money, there is also a greater purchasing power in Austria. The money that employees earn puts them back into the economy. What does anyone need more income for? – To build a home, to re-establish the apartment, to create a family, to buy something. [[Abg. Verbatim: Ordinary wages, no low-cost countries!]] That is true, but it is certainly a fact that no new jobs have been created in the past through lower working hours. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The Minister for Social Affairs noted earlier in his remarks that the labour market service had been redesigned, reformed, it would be much more efficient than before. And he literally said: It is now completely unbureaucratic. Indirectly, he admitted that the labour market administration had been inflated earlier and had worked bureaucraticly. I haven't noticed anything about this change so far. The unemployment rate is rising, and I have not yet heard that more unemployed have been mediated since there was the new labour market service. Those responsible in the Federal Government – including German Chancellors and Social Ministers – need action to prevent this abuse. Today, the unemployment rate is 4 per cent, according to the EU criteria, according to ILO criteria, which is confirmed by the Minister of Social Affairs. After Austrian measurement, it would be 8 percent. I remind you of the time when Kreisky was Chancellor: He called out the state emergency at a 2-percent unemployment rate after Austrian measurement and said that every unemployed person is too much, every unemployed person is too expensive for us. And today an unemployment rate of 8 percent is simply turned under the table, all half so wild. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government should have responded for a long time. The Minister of Social Affairs says: We already responded last year. It's a few years too late, ladies and gentlemen! And if it is said that, together with the social partners, one has taken measures to prevent the rise in the unemployment rate, I must ask you, given today's figures, of today's statistics: Where? I have not noticed anything about all of this, especially in view of the figures and statistics available to us. The Minister for Social Affairs mentioned earlier the increase in the actual retirement age. [[Abg. Koppler: (showing a document) In an international comparison!]] Yes, by international comparison. Austria wants to be a welfare state. And where are we? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We want to be a pioneer, we want to be better than the others, we do not want to focus on negative models, but on positive ones. Mr Koppler! It's unrealistic what you're doing here. That's negatively occupied what you're holding in your hands! We must strive for higher levels – of course! – and no longer those who have a much higher unemployment rate than we do in Austria. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] That can't be the point! The increase in the actual retirement age, ladies and gentlemen, from 35 to 37 years of insurance – the Minister of Social Affairs has done this before – is, in my opinion, totally inconvenient. We have a legal retirement age of 65 years. One should think about the fact that there are people with the 14th century. ==References====External links== Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of persons, free movement of persons, free movement of persons If they remain in working life, they have already reached the 45 insurance years after the ASVG at the age of 60. Why should such a person work until the statutory retirement age of 65? I don't see that at all. Such a person should have the opportunity to retire earlier. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Verbatim: Who's asking for this?]] The criteria for entering the pension system should be based on how many years of insurance a person has acquired in working life, so that the problem solves itself. And it would also have to be given to anyone who has worked hard physically and has certain muscle or skeletal damage, with the 55. To retire when he has already reached the corresponding years – with a certain discount or supplement, no question. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister for Social Affairs also said that budgetary consolidation was absolutely necessary in order to keep Austria's economic location attractive. Of course, we agree with him on this issue. The fact is, however, that this budget consolidation was very, very often promised, but never implemented. And that's bitter now. Already in the OECD reports of 1993 and 1994, Austrian budgetary policy has been criticized and found that additional budgetary measures will be necessary to reduce public funding needs and to limit the debt ratio. In addition, these reports also show the lack of financial policy by the Austrian Federal Government in reducing deficits. Fiscal policy was largely economic-neutral during the period 1987 to 1991 despite strong economic growth. In this period, it was therefore refused to significantly reduce the budget deficit. This forced presentation of the current Federal Government to do everything to celebrate the downfall of Austrian schilling requires corresponding budgetary advances, as the intentionally aborted budget negotiations and the resulting budget chaos have led to dramatic job losses. A correction of the missing socialist budget policy in recent years seems to have been carried out at the expense of Austrian workers. The socio-political effects of the now prevailing record unemployment – I have already mentioned it: only in January 295,000 unemployed – are apparently completely indifferent to the current Federal Government, which is socialistally dominated. The seriousness of the current economic situation is also expressed in the insolvency statistics. In 1995, for example, insolvency liabilities amounted to more than 63 billion schilling; 30 000 jobs were at risk. This plea wave, ladies and gentlemen, continues this year. If there has been a new post-war record in the previous year, this horror development is unlikely to weaken this year. Even the always extremely careful credit protection association of 1870, with its forecasts, expects liabilities of at least 40 billion schilling in 1996, which – the "consumer" with 26 billion schilling liabilities – represents a significant further increase in liabilities. The dramatic situation of the Austrian economy is clearly illustrated by the following examples. A unique crisis industry is now the construction industry. Due to the weak construction economy and the lack of infrastructure due to the budget chaos, the construction industry suffers overly. The drastic reduction in infrastructure expenditure resulted in a record unemployment rate of nearly 100 000 construction workers in the winter of 1995/96, and the Wifo expects a decline in construction production of around 1.5 percent in 1997. In 1997, it is also to be feared that the construction value will even fall by more than 2%. In the construction sector, therefore, a base unemployment rate of more than 10 per cent is expected. And if that occurs, then you, Federal Chancellor, and this Federal Government have to answer! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The poor negotiation of the Austrian Federal Government during the EU accession negotiations is also evident in almost all Japan exports after accession to the EU. If the export volume of Austrian automotive suppliers in peak years has been 4.3 billion schilling, then only exports in an order of nearly 1 billion schilling are now possible. A further weakening of Japan's business is expected to put jobs in jeopardy again, directly about 3 500, and in the future 7,000 jobs are expected to be at risk, mostly in problem regions. One of the most seriously affected companies in this respect is certainly semperit. The CEO of Semperit Reifen AG expects a total failure of Japan exports in 1997. This has brought us EU accession because of the fact that we were not prepared for it, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The Federal Minister responsible for this, Dr. Schüssel, left this here in the House on 18 February. In April 1994, I quote: "Despite a harsh competitive situation in EU companies, negotiations with the European Union on the one hand and discussions with the Japanese economy on the other, have succeeded in ensuring that the Austrian export quotas are fully maintained in Japan." – He thus told you the untruth here in the High House, the Austrian population and the people concerned in principle. Another sector that has put EU accession in great trouble is the food and food industry. Business closures, drastic personnel reductions, significant declines in production and the need to reduce further ten thousand jobs within the next four years clearly show the dramatic state of the domestic food and food industry. Another burden on the labour market will also be the rationalisation measures in the area of Austrian banks. In the next few years, 15 to 20 percent of around 70,000 workers will lose their jobs in the banking sector. The Austrian economy is characterised by insolvency records and record unemployment. Since it is the declared intention of the current Federal Government to meet the convergence criteria for bending and breaking, further pleas must also be expected in the future. For social policy reasons, however, neither insolvency records nor the associated record unemployment are bearable for us. The Austrian Federal Government has so far not been willing to ensure an improvement in the tense economic situation through appropriate measures which we have repeatedly called for. Even from your economic policy coordination expertise, Mr. Bundeskanzler, there has hardly been anything visible to date. It is obvious that you, Mr Bundeskanzler, are not aware of this coordination competence at all.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4285	To answer this question, the Federal Chancellor has now spoken. – Mr Bundeskanzler, I ask you to answer the questions you have raised.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4306	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I answer the questions I have asked myself as follows: Question 1: Since I was Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I have always used my economic policy coordination competence. If, according to all statistics, Austria is the third most important country in the Union today, if we have the lowest rate of increase in prices for years and if our unemployment rate – despite increased conditions – is relatively favourable in terms of international comparison, then that is, I believe, certainly the merit of the work and the diligence of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, if the applicants believe that the Federal Chancellor's coordination competence is an important factor in economic policy, I will not prevent them from doing so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Questions 2 to 5: In order for the employment situation in Austria to remain as favourable as it has been before, and thus not to be true of the forecasts which suggest a higher rate of unemployment, the Federal Government will set new employment impulses. Two of my cabinet colleagues have reported and commented on this in detail today. The "Work for All" action I have initiated is a budget-saving measure that will create new jobs and, secondly, will lead to more registered work and less black-and-collar work. Furthermore, a fairer distribution of work should lead to a higher number of employees. Ladies and gentlemen! We will start the next stage of an export offensive and want to increase the volume of exports by 100 billion schilling by the year 2000, i.e. in this legislative period. This could create 50 000 new jobs. I would add that we also have arrears. We currently export about 22 percent of our gross domestic product. This is - in international comparison - a low percentage for a highly developed industrial country. With these 100 billion plus, it should succeed to reach about 25 percent. Therefore, we will continue the successful strategy to attract large export-intensive and technology-intensive companies so far, and we will allow successful small and medium-sized enterprises better access to market opportunities, coordination and equity. We have taken very, very promising discussions in this regard, and we will have to discuss this in detail here in the Committee on Budgets in good time. For example, the development of venture capital funds with the support of the financing guarantee company should be accelerated. A clear focus on support policy will also lead to stronger research and development activities, an innovation boost and a higher presence in growth markets for smaller and medium-sized exporters. Finally, the legislative changes in the field of export promotion, which were decided here in the House at the end of 1995 – that is, a few weeks ago – will be put into practice. Mr Peter, the honourable Member, who referred to it in your speech: These are concrete measures – and not announcements. If you think that the Federal Government would have had too little for businesses and the economy in recent years, I would like to say that I am happy to have such a discussion. However, I recall the two stages of the tax reform, in which, in particular, corporate taxation was significantly reduced, creating an essential prerequisite for intensive investment in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have therefore started with the export offensive because it is not only possible to achieve considerable potential in this area, as I said, but also because these are budget-saving measures and because they not only create jobs, but also reduce the trade deficit. In addition, despite the consistent budgetary course, we will take a new step towards infrastructure, modernising our infrastructure, in a European context. Investments in transport, environment, energy and telecommunications improve the quality of the business location and increase the opportunities for business settlements and jobs. Another important contribution to economic recovery is to be made by liberalisation in commercial law and by simplifying and speeding up approval procedures in the course of business start-ups and extensions. Deputies! You have said today that you have heard it for so long that you can almost no longer hear it. But I have to stress that there are always start-ups to take, and we now also have a very concrete plan. In the course of the budgetary negotiations between the Federal Government and local authorities, that is, countries and communities, we want to make such progress. But we can't do it all by ourselves: There is also a need for approval practice in the municipalities and in the Austrian federal states. Something else is to be said here and today, High House, ladies and gentlemen: There are two ways to deal with problems: either with the pessimism of my predecessor, the founder of the inquiry, and so on, some of them in the same notch, or with positive plans for the future and with confidence and optimism. I chose the second variant. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the internal debate, it is regularly spoken of by the "fine Austrians". If one asks the wise Austrians, namely the many skilled workers and the many skilled entrepreneurs in our country, what they are expecting now for election struggle and beaten election, then these wise Austrians say that it must now be done with demagogy, with uncertainty, with black painting, so that it is possible for them to be wise in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the course of today's debate – not at this request, but before – Mr. Dr. Haider has mentioned some companies that have moved some of their activities abroad. However, you have forgotten, Mr Commissioner, that there are a number of companies in the world who are going to invest billions in Austria in 1996 and 1997: Philips, BMW, Opel, Hoffmann – La Roche, Siemens and others. That is why I am saying this because, of course, this does not come from the other side, because this does not fit into the concept of ill-eating when you list these investments here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dr. Haider spoke today about the fact that the international investors are making a kind of jury. That's right. They are actually a jury, a jury that is a very good witness to Austria's industrial location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This confidence of international investors is reflected in the high foreign exchange reserves, at the low interest rate, at the low price level and in the continued investment activity in our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The question raised by Mr Dolinschek's question is whether these measures – i.e. measures relating to infrastructure investment – will require tax increases or new credit financing. We will not need any relevant public funds for all of these measures that I have described here. Of course, in the case of infrastructure investment, the state will still have an important role to play. Questions 6, 7 and 8: Due to the worsening international economic situation, the Austrian Institute of Economic Research predicts an increase in unemployment by 2 500 in 1996 and a further increase of 24 000 in 1997. This is very serious to take. However, these forecasts do not take into account the already increased use of labour market policies and employment policies. The Austrian Federal Government and the two parties that bear this Federal Government assume that forecasts do not necessarily have to become reality, but that, if the forecasts are more unfavourable than at earlier periods, we have everything to do to prevent the predicted values from happening if they offer a negative economic and employment picture. In his opinion, Federal Minister Hums has already stressed in detail what steps have been taken. I would just like to point out further initiatives in this context, ladies and gentlemen, in order to strengthen and complement it. The Bauwirtschaft initiative has already been described in detail. But I'll add: We are not yet at the end of the goal, at the end of the desires. We still have a number of negotiations to be held, wherever the public hand can support the Austrian construction industry and the construction industry. There are also very interesting social partnership negotiations and discussions that go to regulate working time models and related materials in the future. I refer to the bonus malus system for older workers, the special programme for long-term unemployed, support for self-employment, the training offensive – life-long learning – and the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men. The possibility of more active labour market and employment policy despite fiscal consolidation is not least supported by the funding of the European Structural Funds. 7 billion Schilling, ladies and gentlemen, will be available in addition to our possibilities and resources by the year 1999. Finally, I would like to say in detail that: The material security of the unemployed is borne by the income of unemployment insurance. An increase in the contribution to unemployment insurance will not be necessary despite the more unfavourable labour market development. Questions 9 and 15: The necessary budget consolidation should be mostly – that is known – on the expenditure side. The "budget" working group is working out expenditure-side savings measures based on discussions with the trade ministers, which will meet the criteria of employment security, social balance and location security. This will be based on one-time measures, such as privatisation proceeds, as well as on revenue-side measures, to cover temporary gaps up to the full effect of structural improvements. Question 10 is the answer: yes. To your additional question, how to reduce the constantly rising number of early retirements, I note: First of all, through measures to keep people in their working lives longer, but also through active employment policies for older people. The bonus malus system has already been mentioned. However, it will also abolish the general special support designed as access to the early pension, taking into account the life-planning of those concerned. On the question 11: The inevitable structural change necessary for dynamic economic development is linked to the emergence of new businesses, but also to the closure of older businesses in a dynamic economy. Insolvency reform is intended to minimise the economic losses arising in this context. A working group under the direction of the Ministry of Justice is tasked with changing insolvency law to the extent that opportunities to avoid insolvency can be improved. Question 12: The employment of foreigners from the southern EU – as the question says – is neither a disturbance to social peace nor a reduction in wage levels nor an impact on labour markets. The negative effects on wage levels are excluded, as Austrian wages are to be paid in accordance with the principle of territoriality. Ladies and gentlemen! It is remarkable that this question is still being asked in the House at all, because the last remaining gap was the anti-abuse law – § 7 para. 2 Labour contract adjustment law – closed, so there is no longer any such gap at all. Now Austrian wages are to be paid from the first day and not only after a month. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As the colleagues of the Freedom Party are constantly coming to speak to foreign workers, it should be said here: A disturbance in social peace and the impact on the labour market cannot take place in the employment of foreigners from the southern EU, because since the opening of the EU labour market, the number of Spanish workers employed in Austria is 326 and the number of Portuguese employed in Austria is 127. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] But I admit that before joining the EEA, these figures were somewhat smaller. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haider.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Why are you just talking about the Spanish?]] Because you asked me about the move of "cheap workers" from the southern EU area. Norway is about north, so elsewhere. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] Vikings are even less. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] On the question 13: It was in accordance... [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: An information: Norway is not in the EU!]] Yes, but in the north. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I spoke about the EEA, and Norway is in the EEA, Mr Bauer. You see, now we understand each other again. It is precisely with the northern lights that we should understand each other. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Trattner: You're still in good mood!]] Of course, I am in good mood – it is easy to answer the questions. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: We didn't want to make it so difficult for you at the beginning! We wanted to give you a chance!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I'll take every training course with you, Mr Bauer – wouldn't be a problem at all! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Maybe you'll learn!]] Mr Haider! I'll come to you. Wait a minute. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Now on question 13: In accordance with the Federal Railway Act 1992 § 2 para. A multi-annual framework for investment in rail infrastructure between the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport and the Federal Minister for Finance has been completed. According to the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport, by the year 2000, an annual framework of 12 billion Schilling is available to cover expenditure on investments in rail infrastructure. On the basis of this agreement, the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport may conclude agreements with the Federal Minister for Finance by the year 2000 including agreements on the expansion of the railway infrastructure, i.e. with the railway company, in terms of investment. Question 14: The National Council held 1992 – § 2 para. 2 of the Federal Railway Act – decided that the Federal Government should bear the costs of providing and extending the railway infrastructure necessary for the purpose of carrying out the operation, provided that the costs cannot be incurred by third parties. In order to prevent the outsourcing of infrastructure costs, it is laid down, on the one hand, in accordance with § 2 para. 6 of the Federal Minister for the Public Economy and Transport in agreement with the Minister of Finance establishes a multi-annual framework for investment. Neither the Federal Minister for Public Economy and Transport nor the Minister of Finance give credit appropriations or liability commitments that go beyond that. On the question 16: The final decision of the EU Competition Commission and of the corresponding measures of the HTM Group is a purely speculative statement. On the question 17, where you asked me about concrete measures: Administrative simplifications in the economic sector. Administrative simplification, deregulation and reform of the administrative procedure are intended to significantly speed up administrative processes, reduce costs and make decisions, especially in authorisation procedures, as quickly as possible. Economic promotion: Simplifications in the economic promotion sector are also being prepared in parallel with the adjustment of competence between the Federal Ministries, thus increasing the clarity of customers and speeding up the processing of cases. Of course, this is done under strict compliance with EU funding law. Improving the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises: A number of individual measures are being prepared for this purpose. Nearly complete is also the preparation of an EU-oriented and flexible SME promotion law, which will replace and replace the Commercial Structure Improvement Act 1969. In particular, the industrial small and medium-sized enterprises are also used to develop and expand strategic, technology-oriented business advice. As far as the EU Structural Funds are concerned, the use of these funds – regional funds, social funds and agricultural funds – has now been fully implemented. The projects are carried out in close cooperation with Austrian co-financing. In the area of regional support alone, ECU 1.6 billion is available for the period up to 1999. Education has to be mentioned that the Austrian education system – from compulsory schools to universities – is constantly remodelling, thereby increasing the transfer of knowledge in the areas of economics. The development of higher education facilitates the regional use of these knowledge transfer centres. A reforestation of the curriculum in large areas of schooling is intended to make the students acceptable for new things. Infrastructure development: In the high-level road network, it is about financing the closure of gaps, especially through the granting of decorating of sections to concessionaries in order to speed up the operations. In general, the development of private sources of funding is expected to take place. For certain transport routes, financing from the Community budget is also examined in the EU Trans-European Network Programme. The extension of high-performance trains of the railway, initially the West Railway, is operated. In the energy network, existing gaps are also closed. As far as the export financing and export promotion system already mentioned is concerned, the export financing system and, above all, the guarantee system have already been adapted to the strict rules of international regulations in the past, and this should be further developed in accordance with these conditions and the level of comparable European industrialized countries. For those who are more familiar with the export economy, I would like to say that, of course, the guarantee policy should be expanded, especially in countries where political and economic conditions are not as stable as they are in most EU countries. The further settlement policy of foreign projects is also in the foreground of our efforts – I said it already. The high quality of the site must be maintained. The various measures have already been mentioned. To answer question 18: With the acquisition of the EU external tariff, the system of Austrian car suppliers to Japan, which had been managed so far in Austria, has been terminated. Ladies and gentlemen, this has not been any discretionary decision of the Ministry, but this system has been terminated. The previously applied reduction of the Austrian autonomous passenger car duty from earlier 20 percent to 4 percent for imports of Japanese passenger cars into Austria in the fulfilment of the planned counter-delivery to Japan can therefore no longer be applied. The European Union's duty rate now applies to imports of Japanese passenger cars into Austria – 10 percent. In the course of the accession negotiations with the European Union, Austria highlighted the importance of Austrian exports to Japan and then negotiated alternative solutions. As a result of these negotiations, the Commission has committed itself to meeting with Japan agreements to ensure Austrian supplies during a transitional period up to the 31st century. ==References====External links== The Commission has strongly called for proposals from the Japanese side. In parallel with the negotiations with the EU Commission, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs is seeking solutions in direct talks with the Japanese Ministry of Industry MITI. On the side of the Federal Government, Mrs. Waldner, among others, visited the 18th century. January of this year insists that, despite the expiry of the counter-business agreement, the Japanese government should take measures to compensate for the decline in Austrian automotive supplies. Since 1995, the "Successful in Japan" programme has also been running with Austrian and Japanese support aimed at increasing Austrian exports by 50 percent by 1997. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would ask you to give me your attention even after the individual answer to the questions. I would like to make a general comment on today's debate and on the question. It is the Austrian Federal Government that is fully aware of all its members that we are faced with a serious situation in our economy, as the forecasts on our economy for the years 1996 and 1997 show. And we also know how you, the questioners, do not know that 295,000 unemployed people are, of course, not an unemployment number with which we want to or may find ourselves in any way. We must, however, – and the Federal Government claims this for itself – also put the starting point in the process of mastering these problems into the calculation. And there we cannot and do not want to see ourselves starting from an employment base of 3 million unemployed people in Austria. They refer to an insolvency record, but they forget or fail to add that one of the main reasons for this is also a major structural change, which is currently being taken up by all European industrialised countries, which creates new enterprises, but which also brings older or non-competitive businesses and businesses in situations which are at risk of existence. I therefore believe that, if I say, the situation is serious, we do not have a disaster scenario, because we have been experiencing continuous economic growth for 15 years, i.e. a continuous real increase in national incomes. And that means that in 15 years Austria has become richer year after year – with different growth rates, but never with a negative one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is good for us, ladies and gentlemen – the late Professor Horst Knapp has made this very clear in one of his last analyses: We are in a world ranking of the World Bank in terms of national income per capita, at 13. Place among approximately 120 or 130 members of the World Bank. On 13. Put it! In other words, Horst Knapp wrote that we Austrians have the hard fate that 5 billion people in the world are worse off than we are. Building on this scenario, we must address our problems seriously and jointly. Mr Dolinschek said earlier that the forecasts show declines. Ladies and gentlemen! These are declines in growth rates, but not decreases in the form of minus values. For 1996, if the forecasts are right, we have a lower growth of our national incomes, but not a shrinking of our total national incomes. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is an advantage if an economy can point out that it is not in principle ill, but also in a difficult situation it has the strength to master current problems. And that's our job, and we're going to face it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me add something just now, because in his afternoon speech, Mr. Dr. Haider meant that these are the typical Europe-political allys, that the responsibility is shifted from Vienna to Brussels: No, we can't, and we can't do that either! It is perfectly clear that all the solutions to the problem that must be taken must be taken at national level: in the Federal Government, in the Parliament, with the social partners. But since 1st. In January 1995, the European dimension has been added, with additional competition, with additional cost impacts, but also with additional opportunities. And we are therefore invited not to delegate responsibility to Brussels or elsewhere, but to understand our membership in such a way that we have such opportunities. When it was said in the afternoon that farms are being outsourced - to Slovenia, to Hungary or elsewhere - I must say that this has to do with the fact that borders have risen, that Europe has changed since 1989 - and not with the fact that we have become EU members. There would have been outsourcings without our EU membership or if there were no European Union, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Peter, if he has said today, we are in a situation of relocation at all. This is not limited to Austria, but all EU members have to wear it. I believe that we must not be wrong in the face of our people and must not allow membership of a European integration model to bear the "debt" that new developments have just taken place and we have to fight with it. And because this is the case, ladies and gentlemen, it would also be a fatal mistake to delay, for example, the accession to economic and monetary union. On the contrary: I believe that, for a country like Austria, stable and secure monetary relations, which have been good for and helped us for 20 years, must continue to be maintained in the future. Of course, we did not see them isolated and not unilaterally, but as a necessary additional condition to an offensive, active structural and employment policy. That is why we have to say something about it if, from the point of view of the founder, Mr Dolinschek, a true lamentarium, a lamento massimo is voted against against rationalization, modernisation and enlargement. Deputies! If you complain here that the banks are modernizing and rationalising, that the Austrian Post is being modernised, I must ask you: Do you think that it would be good and positive for Austria and for workers in our country if we were to stay with all that has been all the time? Should we, as far as the postal sector is concerned, distance ourselves from participating in international telecommunications models? This would mean an incredible infrastructure deficit for the whole economy. Or are the balances still to be filled out in handwritten in the monetary institutions today? Then we need a working day of 12 or 14 hours, and it would not only laugh the whole world over us, but we would probably be divided, isolated from any international context. I understand the concern that this will cause jobs to be lost. However, the task is not to prevent modernisation and to abandon innovation, but to force it and thus to gain economic substance in order to replace lost jobs with new jobs. In fact, that must be our task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This afternoon, Dr. Haider said in his speech that the major investors had forgotten Austria and left it, and in 1995 the investment would have declined. – Of course, they have not gone down, but the growth rate is probably lower compared to 1994. And that's not surprising either, because for the... [[Abg. May. Trattner: He said the foreign investors’ commitment in Austria has declined!]] Yeah, I mean that anyway, I mean exactly the same. [[Abg. May. Trattner:... in general!]] No, no. I'm talking about foreign investment in Austria. These grew slower in 1995 than in 1994. [[Abg. May. Trattner: You went back!]] No, they didn't go back – the growth rate has become smaller. It has therefore become smaller, because the foreign investors have, of course, already met these dispositions in the previous year and there was still uncertainty as to whether Austria will become an EU member. Now this is clarified again, and therefore the foreseeable investments are... [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Put your hands together quietly – it's all right anyway! In 1996, real investment, which will increase industrial investment again. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Just laugh! Look You're looking at the statistics, and then you're laughing, 'cause they're pretty good. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, Mr President, Mr Haider has complained that foreign investors can no longer suffer so well, but he has then said that this is in fact bad with large investments. And he then meant looking at Leykam's plant in Gratkorn, where big new investments are to be made, there would be only a glaring emptiness. Yes, please, what do the ladies and gentlemen believe? – That today one still gains pulp by beating the spruces with the hack and then moving around in the broth, that then ten men sit on it, press it and make it so paper? Then Gratgrain would perish. That is why we need modern investment. Ladies and gentlemen! If there is a emptiness there, then because the Voith company supplies the large paper machinery, and there the workplace is secured and the paper machine factory is used for two years. If Mr. Dr. Haider, honourable Member Nowotny, says he's the first one to be rationalized, I'll invite him: He is supposed to be the first to go to the Voith company and to ask the workers there – so often to speak with them – what joy they will have when he talks about the emptiness in Gratgran because the two years have been spent. He should do that once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's where he talks about the cross-links. Haider would now say: These are the contexts! – They are. That's how it is to be seen. Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps you can tell colleagues, Haider, about his almost superromantic love for the minimum reserves – he is not among us at the moment. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You're not that good at all! You've been better at your jokes too!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: It hurts too!]] But if I had very bad days, I'd still be better than you. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] You're always offended when you come up with counter-arguments. [[Abg. May. Stadler: I'm not offended!]] Your partyobmann has proposed here again today, the minimum reserves...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4670	Federal Chancellor! You're talking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4685	Deputies! They argue against us, and we do not allow ourselves anything but the democratic right to make counter-arguments. I don't allow that to happen at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You allow yourself flat jokes to the labour market! You are making a flat joke about unemployment in Austria!]] I just don't give you any decision on my choice of words. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Do you want to hear an argument now or not? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then finally bring one! They're bringing out a little joke about the numbers of unemployed!]] You keep interrupting. I stand here with the obligation to disprove your statements, which do not secure a single job. This is my job, my intention and my interest. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If it is said here that the abolition of minimum reserves could reduce bank interest rates, make loans cheaper and thus create jobs, it is an untruth. That's what you write in the main book! That's an account I'll present to you later! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Don't be so excited!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not at all possible to discuss matters here, because the proposal to abolish 42 billion schilling, a so-called environmental energy tax, while at the same time removing the municipal tax and reducing VAT by 2 percent, is so adventurous and would not only secure a job but also cause great damage to the Austrian economy. Take a practical example. Take a well-functioning, high-energy steel production like that in Donawitz and brim This is a high energy tax and at the same time reduce VAT by 2 percent: Then it is in the entrepreneurship chain, does not pay any VAT at all, but with the high energy tax you raise it, it falls out of its markets. Workers there may benefit as consumers from the two-percent reduction in VAT, but if their "buds" are locked up, they have nothing to do with the two-percent reduction in VAT! That's really what I'm saying. Your adventurous tax policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! I heard today when I spoke before about commercial houses that this was an old liberal idea. I didn't know that, but I'd like to accept it and say: If we want to make improvements in the retail sector in the interests of our exporting economy, then unless any new idea, any proposal for improvement, because we will certainly not be able to deal with this major problem of job security in Austria, but only with each other. I ask you and invite you to go this way – the Federal Government will do so anyway – that we do not act by multiplying distrust, by multiplying the disease, but rather, with all seriousness, put a good portion of confidence in our own actions. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4789	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 15 minutes. Mr Haigermoser spoke first. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4816	Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe the bad news before. Latest message: The "Tax Inventing Commission" has been found. ÖAAB Chief Höchtl requires a supplementary or solidarity levy.- So it's nothing to save! 25 years of socialism have not yet been enough. There is obviously a continuing novel here. It is interesting to hear the words of Ditzen today, his famous 13 questions and the answers he expects to answer these 13 questions. There is a diametric contrast to what Höchtl said. Obviously – I read this out here – Ditz is isolated with his questions. Federal Chancellor! I'll give you the right and I'll answer you with Goethe: "Life belongs to the living, and he who lives must be taken on change." We can still meet this far, Mr Federal Chancellor, but this change must be accompanied by politics. Unfortunately, you have missed that up to now. We are not wretched at all, Mr. Federal Chancellor. We have been very interested in listening to your remarks, and we have also found it particularly humorous that you seem to be particularly good at it today in your biorhythm. Today, I say, because this has not always been the case. Federal Chancellor! Now I come back to the proposal for houses of commerce. If you are ready – we do not dispute with the inventor of this name – to implement this great idea that the liberals have born, against the resistance of the Chamber of Commerce, which sits like a gluckhenne on its foreign trade sites and is obviously not prepared to realize these commercial houses, then you have us as allies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We are pleased that you are in a good mood, but whether the unemployed and those who will be unemployed will find their humorous deposits so funny in view of the dramatic development in the workplace. Therefore, it would have been important if you had made your comments a little more serious overall. Federal Chancellor! You talked about demagogy. I can answer that a little less polemic would have been better from the government bank. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's important whether Its words, which are beneficial today, can also be seen as a bit in the past, on the eve of a obviously new crasher of the ÖVP in the coalition negotiations. Mr Höchtl. In the case of your own promises in the numerous declarations of government you have already made, it was, as has been said, a little. So you have on 28.1.1987 – as long as this has been the reason why some of our colleagues have called for interim action: Not the same promises as nine years ago! – a few promises, Federal Chancellor. And this is not grief, but these are your own printed works! Nine years ago, Mr. Bundeskanzler – with all appreciation – promised, among other things, the following: "The strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises: The Federal Government will focus on economic policy through an effective policy to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises." – Nine years ago! What have you done to these promises at this level? – Little to nothing, Mr Bundeskanzler, because, of course, you have led the ever-increasing economy to do nothing, according to the motto: Well, it won't get any worse, it'll go well. And now, where a huge economic collapse is going through the stage, we have the mess and we have insolvencys that are not just due to restructuring, as you have done today, Mr Bundeskanzler. Your mistakes in the past, your promises that have not been fulfilled for nine years, are a major factor in the fact that we have today a dispute of insolvency in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today, you have promised us once again – with a commitment, if it is allowed and not a Majesty-policy – that the conditions for access to commercial access must be adapted to today's technical-innovatorial conditions when it comes to the revision of the trade order. You promised to do so today, you promised in 1990, and you promised to do so in 1987. You have blocked all these things under your Chancellorship, Federal Chancellor. We need to keep these promises to you today as a mirror, because, interestingly, you have become sparse as far as promotion policy is concerned, and you have taken the wrong direction. How else could it happen, Mr Federal Chancellor, that in the same breath with which you announce a new support or support wave for these small and medium-sized enterprises, which you so highly praised today, the job owners number one in this country, announce, disable a proven promotion mechanism by letting the BÜRGES action of an unapproached death die? Federal Chancellor! They know that over the last ten years, this proven funding instrument has been able to deal with 50 000 applications for funding with a loan volume of 14 billion schilling and thus create 25 000 jobs. At the end of 1995, as has been said, you have brought down the Danube in the so far proven form. Now it would be possible, with one, I would like to say, "Lappalie" from 90 to 100 million schillings to set in motion a huge volume of support for this action in order to cover this small and medium-sized economy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! That is to say, with this example, your present humorous deposits are being countercared. Because not even 90 to 100 million schillings are worth your small and medium-sized enterprises. That's a fact! That is why we are calling on you today to re-establish this action in order to follow up your words with appropriate actions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We know that the main work is being done in this area in particular with regard to apprenticeship training. Mr Vergestnitsch has once again started the economy as a whole in the old class-warring manner. They said that apprentice training would be so much the exploiters on the road. [[Abg. Conspicuous: But where does that stand?]] We need to talk about what the Chamber of Commerce, your social partners, says about this. We're not sitting at this table. The Economic and Social Committee has said the following on the topic of training – and this is a strong concern for freedom: A decrease in apprenticeship training in industry by around 35 percent shows that the policy of ÖGB and AK to make apprenticeship training almost impossible through permanent difficulties has led to that "success" – under quotation marks. Mr Maderthaner! What's this like? Is it true what you say in press releases? Has this made your social partners a social dictator? Or are you not persevering, or are you right with his claims that the economy is guilty? We confess to the dual education system. However, we also confess to the relief of apprentices, namely that the municipal tax, is equal to the apprenticeship tax – in applications made by us – abolished. Ladies and gentlemen! Today and in the next days and weeks, you have the opportunity of the Austrian People's Party to send your own demands on Sunday's speeches in Parliament and to act accordingly and to agree to our requests. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that, of course, a wave of creation is not so easy to achieve, even because of external influences and home-made problems – homework has not been done before accession to the EU. You laughed at us at the time, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and meant humorous: Well, what do you want with the homework? - Sit down, Mr. Haider! Today you must admit that these homeworks have not been done by you as the responsible Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Maderthaner! Social partners: Your admittedly capable speaker of the young economy, Mr. Petschnig, says: "Austria's self-employed die out." He says: How have the self-employed rate been the most recent in Europe for years? 140 000 companies should be created in Austria immediately. Federal Chancellor! 140 000 companies should be created in Austria immediately! I know it's not right now. But we're not that far away. I don't let pessimism come to mind, because if I wasn't an optimist, I wouldn't be a businessman in that country. I'll tell you: But if, as Höchtl wants, we are now starting a new tax wave, then we will not get these companies in this country, and therefore, of course, no jobs can be secured. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Chancellor! Therefore: Work for everyone there is only in healthy farms! You might call it a floss. But that in far-reaching areas the businesses are no longer healthy, the insolvency that you have so nonchalantly done with the words: Well, you can't do anything, that's a restructuring, just go and argue a few! Federal Chancellor! So you can't see things and say, the liberals crack around there. I'll answer you: I don't know if Mr. Hierzenberger, the head of the KSV, is a chaplain. This Lord Hierzenberger, who, I believe, understands something about his business, must well know when he says: So far, the insolvency has remained unabated. What's still coming depends on the budget burden. What's coming! And for this "what's coming" you are responsible – I am not alone – for this, Federal Chancellor. Therefore, KSV-chef Hierzenberger calls for a reduction of regulations, a maximum degree of flexibility, the abandonment of any further burden on the economy, Pepi Höchtl, a reduction in additional wage costs and a strengthening of the equity base. – Original quote of Hierzenberger. Now you can say: These are general flossels, we already know all that we are going to do, Mr President. But: 1987 promised, 1990 promised, 1995 promised – not respected! Mr Bundeskanzler, I now have to say to you: Tasks not fulfilled! Sit down, not enough, Dr. Vranitzky! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Höchtl: He's sitting anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! They create new burdens for the economy. Increased social security contributions, contributions to the pleite fund, abolition of the Fiscal truck – small things, bigger things, colorfully confused. But, of course, the businessman in this country is completely uncertain. He is basically optimistic, Mr. Federal Chancellor. But you should not go about destroying this optimism. Therefore, you are responsible for pessimism and not the messenger of the message in the form of opposition. If the National Bank Director-General Wala says that the National Bank considers the budget to be remedial without tax increases, then I do not know who is right here. But I mean, in this case, Wala will probably be right. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have made a number of reasonable requests for the discharge of the economy, for the promotion of the labour market. I am excited about how the ÖVP will behave, which, for example, voted in the Salzburg Landtag for these liberal applications. However, it will probably fall by now and in the next few days. Ladies and gentlemen! You will have the opportunity to say a too. An advertising campaign for the abolition of the ten percent drinking tax will be insufficient. This will have to be decided here. And if you, Mr President Maderthaner, take your own request seriously, then you should go about helping the tourism industry that is hard to deal with, and not just giving up empty promises. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore: An advertising campaign is good to find allies. You've got allies in us. You do not need an advertising campaign because we believe that the job holder needs tourism in many regions to support it. Therefore, Mr Bundeskanzler, the request: You should not lend your tourist speaker Parnigoni so often, but the practitioners and experts in this area! Ladies and gentlemen! I – and the citizens can't hear that either – the dried political flossels can no longer hear: We're creating thousands of jobs! Neither the government nor the opposition can create a job, at most the bureaucracy. Policy can set a framework for encouraging people to become self-employed and to stay, above all, in order to create jobs. These conditions have this House, the government has to take responsibility. If we do not succeed in forcing this medium-sized policy, then one will not happen, namely that it is worthwhile again, as Paul Schnitker, the President of the International Trade Union, has formulated.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4922	Mr deputies, please have your final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4937	The best medium-sized policy is a reasonable tax policy that rewards performance and does not punish it. Let us act on this key point.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4967	Mr Höchtl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I refer to § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Speaking time: 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e4989	High house! Mr Haigermoser has said here that I would have agreed to a solidarity or supplementary levy. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Well, yes! The "Kurier"?- Oh, my God!]] I'm correcting: On a question by an editor at a press conference, whether I agree to a solidarity or supplementary levy, I said: I am not taking a position on any revenue-side measure at all, as long as two thirds of the consolidation needs are not done on the part of expenditure – as agreed. - That's the truth. Everything else is the untruth or a misinterpretation. That's what I've corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5024	Mrs Hostasch has now been reported to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5046	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek! They first mentioned some figures from the study of the Economic Research Institute and from the economic forecast for 1996 and 1997. [[The speaker looks towards the former place of Abg. Dolinschek.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: We are relocated!]] – He's over there right now. Yes, everyone is there; where it is right for you, in the right part of this hall. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why you're so far left!]] You can believe me: I feel very comfortable there on the left, together with colleagues from the Social Democratic Party. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add a few additions to what you have quoted from the Wifo forecast, that it is also said that moderate economic growth is likely that interest rates will continue to show that exports will continue to support growth, that losses in travel will be reduced, that we have a robust investment economy in the private sector, that the current account deficit is falling, that we have a persistently high price stability. I do not want to beautify or ignore the problems we have in the development of the labour market, but I would like to stress that, with over 3 million unemployed, we also had a very high level of employment in 1995, which is an expression of the performance of our economy, but also of the qualifications of our colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that it would be irresponsible and not appropriate to develop a crisis scenario and a global downturn mood here and to produce what is also negative for the economy: Pessimism! The economy also needs optimism, and optimism is also part of the success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the prerequisites for competitiveness are, of course, still different framework conditions, apart from a good mood. I mean political stability and the attractiveness of an economic location. These include stable social conditions, good qualifications for employees, reliability in the performance and performance of contracts. I think these factors can be seen in Austria, it has this competitiveness, and it is important for all of us to work towards maintaining it for the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In this view, additional labour costs are only part of the factors. In addition to wages, part of the labour costs are in the international comparison, which is necessary for the total price. Here too, we should point out that we are in the middle of labour costs. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. May. Peter: Fourth place in the EU!]] By international comparison. Not only do EU countries belong to this comparison, but other countries must also be taken as a benchmark. I know you have a somewhat disturbed relationship to statements made in studies of the economic and social partners. [[Abg. Haigermoser: To whom do I have an disturbed relationship?]] If the economic and social partners make statements, you have a somewhat disturbed relationship to them. That is why I refer to a study prepared by these social partners. If you read them in this study, you'll find out what I just said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out, Mr Haigermoser, that wage costs are a factor, but interest rates, currency fluctuations are a much stronger factor in maintaining competitiveness and that, therefore, these factors are at least equally important. I therefore also support the statements made by the Federal Chancellor on the importance of monetary stability, on the elimination of currency fluctuations, so that our export economy in its competitiveness is absolutely guaranteed for the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have a lot of proposals that will improve the development of the labour market and counteract the negative trend. I said that the framework conditions are crucial, but it is also important to take concrete action. If you, Dr. Haider, first spoke of seven proposals, let me mention seven again. You'll see, there might be some new proposal. The number of seven proposals is an example of how we can expect a patent recipe. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There you are better than the Federal Chancellor if you make a proposal! The Federal Chancellor only made a joke!]] The Federal Chancellor has tabled a number of new proposals. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He just made a flat joke!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is reserved for you how you evaluate statements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We appreciate what the Federal Chancellor says, and not just us! And we also know about the meaning and quality of his statements. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] I believe it will be very crucial for projects to be forced and implemented to combat unemployment. I would remind you of those proposals, which have already been made by the Federal Minister for Climate, to combine railway and road with toll revenue in a joint financing structure and to provide a medium-term financing opportunity. I think it is important – and this has already been said today – to speed up procedures and to debureaucratise where certain red tape rules are not useful. We need an active employment and labour market policy in order to also benefit from co-financing by the European Union. We are fighting – and we will have to do this even more offensively and effectively – illegal employment and undeclared work. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Blablabla! That's just phrases!]] Active labour market policy means, ladies and gentlemen, to put in place specific skills measures where there are groups that need this qualification in order to have a chance to be integrated into the labour market again. [[Abg. May. Stadler: These are all phrases! You have announced seven proposals! Where are they?]] Mr Mag. Stadler, if you call it "phrases", then you have not yet passed your readings that there is a labour market programme of the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in which you find all of this, quite specifically, also with the success rates, also with what we are proud that the placement rates have become higher by disseminating the labour market service than before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: There was the Vogler better!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! If You're talking about commercial houses here and you're accusing this idea for yourself, I'm supposed to be right: But that's nothing new, because it's already there. They work very efficiently for the small and medium-sized economy. I have recently had the opportunity to get to know a representative of such a commercial house, and I have seen how effective it can be here for parts of our economy. I am convinced that it is right to further develop these initiatives, because we can also benefit from the opportunity of developing an additional source of funding through membership of the European Union. But if you, highly valued ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are developing ideas towards the past when in your programs craft schools are called a possibility of qualification, then I would ask you to explain to me what you understand. I only know this from the history of the last century – and this is not an acceptable instrument for us to make improvements in the working world. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Let me also refer to a few points from the ideas of the Freedom Party. They are talking about the tax advantage of non-profits as a measure to boost the labour market, to combat unemployment. I can also recommend a study by the Chamber of Labour, which deals with the tax developments. I think, ladies and gentlemen, if you take this study and look at its approaches, then you will see that the realization of these proposals would only mean strengthening profits at the expense of workers. No additional job would be created or secured. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you have spoken about more time autonomy here, I have thought that is a proposal that covers up with our considerations. But your proposal is about more time autonomy for businesses. I wonder, Where do the interests of employees remain for you? Do they not also have a right to more sovereignty in determining their working time, in the way they carry out their employment? There's no equivalence with you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me give you another example: The bonus malus system can be found in your program. I have noted that: They have written down something that has been discussed between the social partners for a long time. Only when reading, I came up with this: It's a different bonus malus system than what we imagine. In your case, bonus means that those companies receive a bonus that does not cancel, i.e. a credit rating for a behavior you should expect and expect anywhere where it is reasonable. But there can be no policy of boning that, which in fact should be a matter of course in a working relationship. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The companies are supposed to throw people out, that's your way!]] In the same way, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, may I say to you: What is the proposal for a refund of the tax in the case of legal use of services? That is to say, if you do what is natural from the law, there should be a re-funding, even from means of taxation. This is a moral performance which does not correspond to my own, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. With this you have to get to the edge of the liberals themselves. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say something, ladies and gentlemen, because the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor was also called for here. I wonder, Where should the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor lie when an industrialist, like Mr Prinzhorn, moves a considerable part of his production to Hungary? [[Abg. Nürnberger: Here you go!]] Is this, as a commitment to our economy, a commitment to the preservation of jobs in Austria? I didn't hear from you. I'm asking where you call for responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I agree that we are called upon to make every effort in the national field to ensure employment, to create jobs and to combat unemployment. However, we will have to do this at the level of the European Union, because unemployment can only be fought beyond national borders. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Why did you ruin the "consumer"?]] Mr Haigermoser! Since you're talking about promotions here and so placidly take an example: We see our responsibility in the promotions as we constantly question them on efficiency. And if we realize that a particular model of promotion does not bring about the efficiency it has been created for, then we are thinking of optimizing it. And that is true in the case you have referred to. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Then we don't need to talk about it anymore!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say: We are also required to think a little bit about whether it is right to remove those companies in particular and to present them in front of the curtain of which is so loudly proclaimed here: They have managed to significantly improve the dividend with even fewer employees, by termination of employees. I would like to call those companies in front of the curtain that can say that they have managed to achieve an appropriate interest rate on the capital used with the same number – even better: with more employees. [[Abg. Haigermoser: The "Forward" publisher!]] If we also achieve this economic philosophy, then – I am convinced – how we are a step further in the fight against unemployment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5351	Mr Abg has now been reported to speak. Ing. Maderthaner. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5373	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think there is no doubt that we have achieved a great deal in our country. Because this small country, as we know it today – after two lost wars – has not been easy. First of all, this is due to the ability of all Austrians, as already mentioned here, to the willingness to risk, the creativity of entrepreneurs, the labor of workers, the peasants, in short: all Austrians who think in terms of performance. But I think that this also has other reasons, because there are wise people everywhere: It is also the stable political conditions that we have in this second Republic, the established chamber organizations and hence the social partners. All of this is responsible for our success. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] At the moment, however, the economic climate has been somewhat saddened, so it is our job to do everything we can to get back on track in order to solve problems even in difficult times. I'm convinced: If we take the right steps when we make structural corrections where this is necessary, we will do all of this. But we must not put our heads in the sand, otherwise it can easily happen that we wake up without our heads – and that would be bad, I think. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this whole development and the rise in unemployment, you must try to make the right analyses and then take the right measures in labour market policy. It's clear: Jobs are only created or maintained by functioning, profitable establishments. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] I would like to point out again clearly and clearly that it was mainly the small and medium-sized enterprises which have created jobs in the last ten years, in addition to the public sector, namely productive jobs, around 200 000 in number. In particular, we must thank this sector of the economy and continue to do everything we can to ensure that these businesses are successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a practical entrepreneur, I would like to stress here: Jobs can only be secured by orders. Neither regulations nor agreements will ensure or create jobs, but only through successful entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to obtain contracts, competition must be able to stand and compete successfully. That is, one must be competitive. And this is a question of the costs of which so much has already been said today, namely the costs of materials and machinery as well as the costs of wages, but also the additional costs such as energy, the environment, expenditure on bureaucracy, taxes and so on. In fact, everyone should know exactly that and then judge his actions. Apart from the fact that competition from the East of Europe and the Far East, Asia, is increasing, we have to think about how different economic growth has developed, for example, between America and Europe, in the light of developments. Because that will be the question of the future for the whole continent at all. Between 1970 and 1992, the economy in Europe grew by 81 percent in real terms and by 70 percent in the United States. Employment rose by 49 percent in the United States over this period, but only 9 percent in Europe. In Austria it was 85 percent during this period with an employment increase of 28 percent. So we were certainly much better here than the rest of Europe. And this should also be very positive for us that we have been able to meet a greater challenge. But why have companies in the USA been able to provide so much more jobs than in Europe or in Austria? In any case, technical progress alone cannot be done. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: I've been waiting ten minutes! You are the President of the Chamber of Commerce! That's a forest and meadow speech!]] Maybe you'll listen a little bit. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: All the time I listen!]] Then it is good, my colleague. You'll hear more! Have a little patience! Don't get so impatient. Did I interrupt someone from your party? Maybe you should stick to the habits here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It certainly has made work expensive, and that is perhaps the reason where we have to try to correct it. . I do not want to be misunderstood, I do not want to have any American conditions here. I am very glad to live here in Europe and especially in Austria. However, I call on both the government, the social partners, the colleagues and you here in the House to participate in positive measures and not just to make intermediate calls here. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: Good!]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: Good!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] All in all, we need to deal with this issue very objectively. We must respond, try to work on the conditions that this improvement can create on the labour market and to make it more serious together, so to speak, to secure our necessary social network and positive economic development for the future. Any oversupply of state and economy would drive us into the spiral of money depreciation, which would be known to hit the "small" savers, the pensioners, the beneficiaries of low incomes and the more socially weak. To create sufficient work in Austrian enterprises and to give social security to those who have worked their lives, or to those who are economically on the verge of doing so, ladies and gentlemen, in concrete terms. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: But now it's coming, I suppose!]] Don't be so impatient! You're gonna have a little time, aren't you? [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: I do! But you're not!]] I have more time than you believe. That is to say – and it has already been mentioned a lot in this respect today, but I would like to try to sum this up: Degrading unnecessary bureaucracy, step by step. We should take steps and implement them. Don't talk, act! And sometimes I have the feeling here – let me say that too – that in the authorities there is sometimes also a certain kind of anti-labour market where we see how the authorisation procedures are running, how the problems of businesses are seen. I have to say at times that we do not always act as labour market-friendly. Next problem: Of course, the reduction of additional labour costs that we are always talking about. Here, too, with more personal responsibility and perhaps more self-sufficiency. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: For example?]] Accelerating all authorisation procedures to give more impetus to the economy. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: Three examples: Which one?]] There are possibilities to bring more acceleration into private investment, so to speak, if authorisation procedures are being dealt with accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Targeted and effective measures against industrial undeclared work and illegal employment: There too, we must not just talk, but act. The bonus malus system has already been addressed today; it has already been socially agreed. – For older workers: flexible working hours, which are desired by both workers and employers. There too, I think, we need to act from the point of view of speaking. More part-time employment, which is particularly important for women – and, already said today, but I will also bring examples to bear, increase the promotion of research and development. Additional advertising for Austria as an economic and investment location. Since only the disadvantages of joining the EU were listed here today by Mr Dolinschek: Of course, there have been changes, just like any development. However, they did not say what happened in addition to investment, which was created in addition. If we were not to join the EU, ladies and gentlemen, then the investment activity of large foreign companies would not be at all. Try to ask what has happened in Switzerland over the last six years, how investment has developed there. If you did, you would notice that within six years in Switzerland, the investment amount has fallen from about 30 billion to 6 billion francs, in the country itself. It was basically invested outside Switzerland. If they talk to Swiss companies, then you will notice that they are concerned about looking to the future. – That on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen! It also says: more support for business start-up. – That’s clear: We have to do everything we can to promote young entrepreneurs even better. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has tried to make a contribution, but there is still no public contribution, and this has to be noted here. That means: From words to actions to carry out structural reforms, even unpleasant things, when it is necessary to express and perhaps also a limited renunciation of real wage increases. No one, please – this has been claimed here today – has demanded a reduction in the real wage. I have just said that perhaps two to three years' absence of real wage increases. Ladies and gentlemen! If you read newspapers, you probably also read that when surveying 1,500 Austrians, 75 percent believe that prices and wages should be coupled, i.e. that you should be guided by the inflation rate. – That is, the majority of people realize that this is necessary. And they're ready to say: We will not be able to consume more than we can now in the next two years. And we're going badly, I think, but not. You can say that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I spoke of additional advertising for Austria, I now want to hold very clearly – and these are all the actions, Mr Bauer, since you have grown so old about it – that I tried on my last trip to New York last week... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Travel?]] [[Call the liberals:Ball!]] Listen to me, please! Listen to me, and then you'll find out what's done there. This too is advertising. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who attacked you?]] I'm just saying this because you're constantly polishing. That's the whole story. [[Abg. Scheibner: What's polemized?]] Listen to me! Also at a ball you can make contacts and have conversations, conversations that are quite interesting to the economy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In any case, we have presented Austria, we have advertised for Austria. It was also Professor Kramer, as well as Austrian managers and a representative of the Control Bank. We have tried to present Austria as an interesting location. Because from this day on, no one comes if you don't draw people's attention to it. In this respect, further events have been agreed so to speak. – These are real actions to make Austria even more interesting abroad. I have also concluded cooperation agreements in the USA with MIT, the Massachusetts Institute for Technology, as well as with the Stanford Research Institute, as far as research and development cooperation is concerned, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. That too is essential, and these are really actions! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have now also launched the action "Careers with Teaching". With this in mind, we would like to point out in particular that training is important for dual training. – These are actions, ladies and gentlemen, which are important for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to help wherever you have the opportunity to do so, because words alone, like "we will" or "we want", will certainly not help solve the problems. To put acts, you are all invited to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5615	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5637	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are truly experiencing an "appetising" new variant of parliamentarianism: The FPÖ convenes a special meeting to which I congratulate it, on a particularly important subject. As has been so often done in this House, the President agrees on a certain speaking time, on six "Vienna hours", which makes for the 78 minutes of freedom. The clubman consumes 40 minutes, so simple according to the motto: It is important that he has spoken, that the others have nothing to say anyway. [[Cheerfulness at the Liberal Forum.]] And then we'll make a urgent one on the same subject. Really: What do you want to do with parliamentarianism? You are calling a special meeting on a subject, and then you make another urgent matter. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP as well as on the Greens.]] Somewhere the seriality is over. It's all unfortunate. Then let's say we're getting 30 requests on the table now, and that's the work on common solutions! – This is not the way economic policy is going. It is only one thing to hope that you will never be in danger of having to make real economic policy. That would be a disaster, I can only tell you that! [[Congratulations with the Liberal Forum, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Vrnitzky! My compliment! They have today given a warring opinion on a very difficult subject: unemployment. And I am pleased that after the government development venture capital funds will come to fruition. For the promotion of the tourism capital of the past was not least a bank promotion, and it has only partly arrived at the enterprises. It is therefore not right if Mr Haigermoser said that the BÜRGES Fund's external capital support would definitely continue. – If they were to continue, Mr Haigermoser, it would be useful to continue with fixed interest rates in the current low interest rate phase. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Fine!]] In addition, I also believe that it would be much more important to introduce additional equity in equity promotion, in the case of equity funds, because their level of foreign capital is usually well above the neck. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Yes, right!]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: But BÜRGES has proved itself!]] Federal Chancellor! You're right: The company tax in Austria is Europe mature. I totally agree with you. Only: Do you know what annoys us entrepreneurs and what causes us to lose lust and joy? – These are the conditions I have already mentioned in the field of the working world. And it doesn't help us if we keep getting started again and again and say, It's going to be less bureaucracy. – In reality, it’s no less, in reality it’s getting more and more. I'm just bringing two examples here. First: There is now an occupational medicine law in Austria. That means, speaking for my company, I don't know if we're starting from 1. There will be an additional annual burden of 108 000 S in 1997 or 1998. There are two practical doctors in Sankt Wolfgang who have done this task well, as I mean. Second example: Environment Commissioner – a very important issue. I ask my dear wife to be Environment Commissioner in my company. She almost killed me. She's been thrown with paper ever since. Such packages of paper! My wife is active, please; she has something else to do but read these papers. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] If you throw it away, it's a shame. That would not be the meaning and purpose. I'm taking this as an example of what it's all about. I agree with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that optimism and confidence are the only chance to get rid of this miscarriage in which we are currently, especially as far as the labour market is concerned. What concerns me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that you now need six months to draw up the 1996 budget. They began to negotiate in August. Today we write at the end of January. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky: It was a choice between them!]] I think this choice is just as "necessary" as you are. She was successful for you. For those who broke them from the fence less. Just, that's the point: Everything is waiting for investment concepts in this country and for implementation there are hopes for the future and the question: When do we have a government now, when do we really have a budget, how do we know how to proceed? This is the demand that the economy raises to the Austrian Parliament and to the Federal Government: there is security and stability also in 1996. Madam President, Hostasch! This with the additional wage costs is an eternal issue between us. Let's hold on to one thing: It cannot be wise to say that we leave the additional wage costs where they are where they are, and only in exceptional cases, such as the long-term unemployed or, as the liberals have suggested, the seasonal extension, we note that the additional wage costs are too high, and then we make special cuts there with a huge red tape. – I think it would be really smarter to understand: What meets us entrepreneurs is labour costs. We in Austria have the fourth highest labour costs in Europe, and there are only a few non-European countries – I think Japan is part of it, otherwise I don't think of anyone; Switzerland is thinking of me – in which there are higher labour costs than we do. Our topic is to increase gross wages by outsourcing additional wage costs and reducing labour costs, not only in special cases with all bureaucratic obstacles and all risks of abuse, but also in total. It creates jobs, it creates hope. And we want to do that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5738	Mr Van der Bellen has now been notified to the House. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5759	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue is still the labour market, gentlemen, also for Holger Bauer. The Federal Chancellor today – as I mean – responded funnyly and ready to respond to the so-called urgent request. But the Members of the Liberals have also made it quite easy for him, I would say. Rarely have I read such a curiously formulated request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Bauer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You have other papers too! Why didn't you take the documents from the press conference last week and make a paper out of it? That would have been much more meaningful! I can remember: In October or November, they produced a forty- or fifty-page paper for the economic location. You could have killed this! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's not better either!]] But I also know why you didn't do this: Because you missed the time. They wanted to break down the Lambbach question of the Greens, and in half an hour they won't be brought together much more. However, this is also counterproductive in your sense – if I may say so. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: Why did we want to cut them off?]] I'm gonna take a moment. I only say a few things that may not have happened yet, or I emphasize some things that also support the Greens. There is one point in the whole debate on the financing of employment measures, which we have been repeating for a year as with the prayer mill, namely tax evasion in the old-age recovery contribution. There is about 1 billion schilling on the road, or better said, in the dirt of the landfills that should be lifted in order to speed up the restoration of landfills and thus, of course, to create the corresponding jobs. The word "technology promotion" has often been used today, especially by the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen! I would remind you that there has been and exists an industrial committee. However, during the last legislative period, it has not been possible to discuss even once the draft technology promotion concept. I hope that will change! In order to reform energy taxation and reduce certain parts of the so-called additional wage costs: I'm very happy when this is thematic. It is no secret that the Greens have been promoting energy tax reform for a long time. I don't need to stress that again. However, I am skeptical – especially respect for Mr Schneider – if you want to go into the first round with 43 billion schilling. I'd look at it carefully before. [[Abg. May. Peter: Only pay-by-cost reduction, but no tax increase!]] The liberals both want if I have understood them correctly. [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Right, except for that! I'm generous! Of course, one might ask the liberals to tell us how much schilling the fuel price now, how much larger the kilowatt hour electricity and so on will rise. After Mr Schneider's proposal, the price of petrol will rise much more than in our energy tax proposal from last summer. We want to hold on to that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Bauer.]] There is another point in this context, which I would like to discuss once – but now is not the appropriate moment for it – namely the incidence of payroll tax. The trade unions, as well as the employers' associations, have so far assumed, of course, that this is a tax which the person who pays it. It is not, I believe, a four-week period since the industrial association made a broadcast via the Family Aid Fund, which it was reasonable for workers to pay for this fund. In the context of the insolvency fund, there are also constant efforts to ensure that workers also have to pay something for it. Those of you who have studied economics or business will know: Whoever carries a tax depends on how the elasticities of supply and demand are obtained. If I have an unelastic job supply curve and an elastic labour demand, then these taxes – pay-a-mount tax, insolvency, or service provider's contribution, or as always called all these bizarre taxes – clearly bear the workers and not the employers. If this is not expressed in the price, i.e. at the wage level, then it is in the quantity, namely in employment. That such taxes were and are, at least in the 1980s and 1990s – in the 1950s, they may have been different – is theoretically difficult to dispute. What else do we support? – Of course, overtime reduction in favour of real jobs. The introduction of sabbaticals – karenz years – is probably more difficult in industry and in the economy, public service would be the transfer of the university model, I think, not so difficult, especially in the professions that are so to speak, not primarily career oriented. In this context, I call once – without mockery, but as a description of the facts – for example, teachers or nurses and so on, so people in professions who are particularly affected by burn-out syndrome. Re-establishment of companies – wonderful! Minister Ditz today spoke of a "new wave of founders". Hopefully she'll be here soon! Finally! Since when do we talk about it? How many OECD reports are there on this subject? And what happened? How often have restrictions on the trade regulations been addressed? I do not want to say that nothing has happened, but at least very little has happened. - Maybe it works this time! Of course: The 1996 budget is about to concentrate budget resources on labour market areas. Now one more word on the EU: I personally believe that we should introduce monetary union tomorrow and deal with the fiscal convergence criteria where they belong, but not in connection with monetary union. I do not need to stress - I have often made enough last year - that budgetary consolidation is, of course, necessary, but not under the pressure of these two so-called convergence criteria. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That means the schilling would become softer, without convergence criteria?]] We can discuss for a long time whether the schilling in monetary union becomes softer. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Without convergence criteria?]] No, no, no, For this to happen, there would be a need for an independent European Central Bank – I will come back to it in a moment: We don't necessarily have to imitate the Germans, but you could do according to the model of the German Bundesbank. There should possibly be greater autonomy that allows the "Euro" – or what the monster will be called – to be a stable currency like the D-Mark. And this would, of course, also ensure the stability of schilling. However, what you write in the urgent request is a bit strange. I was having fun about that. They submit to the Federal Government the forced idea – literally – "to do all that is necessary to achieve the end of the Austrian schilling". – One can discuss whether monetary union is a sensible or a questionable project. There are good arguments per and counter, I don't want to deny that at all. The main argument against a monetary union is that one is losing the instrument of depreciation, another instrument that Austria has not applied for at least 15 years, because we de facto have a monetary union, if one does not normally say it, namely, with the D-Mark, for at least 15 years. The Federal Government, according to its wording, is forced to let the Schilling go down. – But what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen? Among your 30 motions for resolutions with which you bombard us afterwards..., pardon: will be congratulated, is one that does not congratulate me. [[Call to the liberals: Congratulations!]] In fact, it goes beyond the abolition of the autonomy of the Austrian central bank, with the explicit addition that it is possible to allow a little more inflation in Austria. – So: The abolition of the independence of the central bank and the fact that Parliament still says: In addition, please make a bit more inflation, which is the opposite of what I would like for Austrian monetary policy. I really prefer monetary union, in which the stability of the "Euro" in Frankfurt would be ensured and such short-term attacks would be removed, even in the event that you would be setting the government from 19xx or 2000 onwards. [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: 1998 to 2002!]] 2098? [[General hustle and bustle.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! For the emergence of this urgent request: Today's APA issue, 13.35 hrs., states that Haider announces an urgent request to Chancellor Vrannitzky on the issue of employment policy in the event that the Greens do not withdraw their urgents to the power plant of Lambbach. Oh, my God! That is really a "good" reason for making an urgent request! If the issue is half two, and the session started at four, then you have had one and a half hours – if you see it generously – to think about it. And so does the text – apologise, if I say so – also looks forward to this urgent request on a very important topic, admittedly important! [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] I don't think that's what you've done to anyone's service, either. I wonder, What is the point of trying to break down these Lambach Drums? [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Reverse: What is the urgent question about Lambach?]] What are you doing? In the Upper Austrian Landtag you vote against the power plant. I was there a week ago, and who was there? – Mr. Landesrat Achatz gave a speech there. We have also given talks. Monika Langthaler, Peter Pilz, Rudi Anschober, and my littleness were there. After all, Landesrat Achatz was there, and he clearly opposed the power plant. We know how the SPÖ behaved unfortunately in this case. In the Upper Austrian Landtag she voted for the construction stop, and in the Federal Council she voted against it again. Do you want to do the same here in the National Council now? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dkfm. Bauer.]] What are you doing? Should we move it to midnight? Is that not an important issue? [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: This is from your banishment! You're afraid of touch!]] I have no fear of contact, no one from you. That's ridiculous! I'm excited what you're going to say. I hope that you will not suddenly find that Lambach is energy-efficient. I hope that you do not believe that what Mr Pühringer has listed there is acceptable for democracy. I hope that you do not suddenly think that this non-coordination of the power plant park in Austria makes sense economically. And I also hope that you do not suddenly think that this is ecologically safe. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Look at Carinthia, we have prevented it!]] I'm not interested in Carinthia now, my colleague. We're talking about Lambach now! [[Abg. Dkfm. Bauer: But that was the same topic!]] Yeah, it was the same theme. But here and today you should jump, not in Carinthia! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Today, even the energy experts in Carinthia give us the right!]] Mr President, I should like to thank I'm not taking Carinthia's position. I want to know what you intend to do in Lambach!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e5986	Mr Van der Bellen! You're still talking alone. Or are you ready? - Good, thank you. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. - I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6010	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Van der Bellen! You don't need to be so sad! As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, urgent questions are possible, and if an agreement is not reached with you, you must take note that we are taking advantage of our subject. There is no question about that at all. You couldn't meet this agreement, so the more powerful party in the House is coming. And these are the liberals and not yet the Greens! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Oils: There's still applause for that?]] On Mr Peter's offensive economic policy – now he is outside: The proposal has not come from us to reduce 300 000 beds. The proposal came from Helmut Peter, not from us! [[Abg. Schaffenrath: This is an understatement!]] He would be most likely if in his entire neighborhood the hoteliers had to cut down the beds and only his own hotel remained. He would understand that by means of offensive. We really don't understand that! But now to the problem: Employment in Austria. This problem did not arise until now, from today to tomorrow or before the National Council election. This problem has been boiling late for a long time, in so far as we have failed to implement a budget policy in the years 1987 to 1992. One has simply been satisfied with a budget deficit of 2.7 to 2.8 percent of the gross domestic product in a high economy. They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's enough for us. Only in the first wind of 1993 when the forecast budget deficit has exploded from 63 billion schillings to 98 billion schillings has suddenly begun the great howlings. In 1994 it was necessary to prepare for the EU. The Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany wanted to make the Austrian people and the House believe that this cost only 12 billion schilling and no more. But then it turned out that this costs not 12 billion schilling, but 50 billion schilling. These 50 billion schillings have obviously failed to produce the 1996 budget. In this way, the EIA has, in some way, provoked the break of coalition, although it has actually known very well that the burden on the 1996 budget will be around 50 billion schilling. At the time we wanted to make ourselves credible that if we do not join the EU, it would lead to higher unemployment. You said: If we do not join, then there will be higher unemployment and reduced economic growth, but if we join, then exactly the opposite will occur. A 2% higher economic growth as a result of EU accession brings a percentage point of growth, 10 billion schilling more tax revenue, after the financial compensation remains 6 billion schilling with the federal government, 2 percent are equal to 12 billion schilling higher tax revenues for the federal government, the result is zero: 12 billion Schilling added tax burden, 12 billion schilling higher tax revenues, accession costs us nothing, it brings us only something: a higher number of jobs and lower unemployment. Now the Chancellor of the Federal Republic famous himself: Our unemployment statistics are good in international comparison. We had an unemployment rate of only 8.1 percent in December 1995. However, you have not taken into account one of these statistics, namely early pensions in the order of 166 720 per November 1995. This means a total of 434,000 non-employees, who could actually still be active in the work process. This results in the true unemployment rate, which is not 8.1 percent, but between 12 and 13 percent. Unfortunately, these are the facts! And the Social Democrats have always tried to misrepresent it. You have always misrepresented one thing: They have said that EU accession brings more than it costs us. Let us take a look at the annual accounts of tax revenue. We have drawn your attention to the fact that, if the homework for EU accession is not done, it will result in a purchasing power drain, as it has occurred since its participation in the EEA. Let us now look at the revenue from sales tax revenue in 1995: Compared to 1994 with 202 billion schillings, in 1995 there are only 179 billion schillings. This is a minus of 23 billion schilling sales revenue. I admit: The conversion from the import turnover tax to the excise duty accounts for around 10 billion schilling. But there are still 13 billion schilling, and that means a purchasing power drain of 60 billion schilling. This purchasing power flow of 60 billion Schilling not only affects trade, but also concerns tourism and, of course, jobs in all those subcontractors in the construction industry, in the field of construction, which have provided a great deal of services for the tourism industry as a result of the investments made there. That's exactly where the problem lies. The problem also lies in the fact that the social democrats, particularly the trade unions – and many members of the trade union complain about this – have always released the production factor labour for a tax burden. We have always been careful to get a reasonable conclusion, but we have never been concerned about how high the tax burden on these labour incomes is and what development looks like. A reasonable solution has been found for the savings account tax, for the final taxation of capital in a 22 percent order. However, there has been no concern at all about what one can do to ensure that the labour force is tax protected and not so discriminated against. You just need to look at the development. The wage tax figures in 1995 show an increase of 11.5 percent compared with 1994, which means an increase of 134 billion schilling to over 150 billion schilling. The payroll accounts were clearly far below. First of all, the cold progression is on the rise, and secondly, there has been a failure of the trade unions. This not only criticises the liberals, but also very many members of the trade union organization. You are entitled to claim that you have not done anything in this area at all. And now the Federal Chancellor is coming and saying that there will be a large investment campaign and asking what the liberals have at all, why we say that next year there will be less investment and fewer jobs in the industrial sector. It notes: Opel will come to Austria, Siemens will come to Austria, Phillips will come to Austria, BMW will come to Austria. – So why this black painting? In view of this, I look at the "Press" from January: "Industrial economic climate – changing 9 000 jobs in industry." – This is not a liberal statement, but it is a statement by the "Presse" of the Federal Chamber of Commerce. So please: What's right now? Is the Federal Chancellor's statement right now? Or do the statements of the "Press" and yet the statements of the Liberal Group vote? . I believe that the statement of the Group of the Party of European Socialists is true in this case. In this case, as already in the press hours, the Federal Chancellor operates only painting. It simply says that capital strengthening measures must be taken. That's what I'm asking: What measures have been taken to strengthen capital over the last few years? – The early depreciation has been abolished. The investment premium has been abolished. With regard to tax reform, the investment reserve, which was initially reduced from 25 to 10 percent, has been abolished. The investment exemption amount has been reduced to 9 percent. – Are these, for example, capital-strengthening measures? If you say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The tax reform has brought the entrepreneurs so much, then I must ask you the question: What did she do to the entrepreneurs? – 34 billion Schilling savings in terms of payroll tax, wealth tax and commercial tax. However, the municipal tax burden again accounted for 20 billion schillings, so it remained under the control of only 14 billion. In the same breath you have deleted the flat-rate adjustment, in the same breath you have removed the investment reserve, and in the same breath you have raised the corporate tax from 30 to 34 percent. What was the effect? - Zero! That was your big tax reform! In the final effect, they always want to be safe on number. That is why they are not at all accessible to the eco tax, because you are too unsure of the basis of assessment. They prefer a safe basis of assessment, and they only have you with the bulk income, the wages and salaries. Why should you shake it if you have any opportunity to access it with the shear of taxes in this way? This is, of course, much safer for you than an eco-tax, which, however, must be discussed in the near future. Why not discuss a model of the greens or a model of the liberals? We want to discuss all the models with which an eco-tax reform could now be brought about! But you should not treat ideas – regardless of which group – immediately negative and repugnant! If we want to find a common line in the current situation in order to overcome the current critical situation, I think we must look at and listen to all the proposals that take over the good things from it and let go of the bad ones. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This also means, of course, that, in the course of such a debate, one has to go into the question of why the matter has actually come into such a channel. Why do we not now discuss a tax reduction as in Germany? In Germany we are now discussing the reduction of the solidarity levy, which we do not have yet, but which will obviously also come to us after the Austrian People's Party wishes to agree to this solidarity levy. It is said in Germany that by the year 2000, the tax rate will be reduced and, of course, the tax rate reduced. This is also a proposal from the liberals. For it does not yet mean that, if you lower the tax rate, you also have lower tax revenue. Many examples, for example in England, America, and New Zealand, have shown that the opposite has just occurred. If one reduces the top rate of taxation and relieves a little of mass income, then there will also be greater tax-honority. In this way, we achieve a higher basis of assessment for the tax rate, higher tax affordability and, of course, a guarantee of Austria's economic location. There will then be new growth impulses for the economy, and more jobs can be created again. These examples must be dealt with critically. It is not all good what a group proposes, and it is not all bad what a group proposes. One should take out the good things and make common considerations on concrete approaches from them. I believe that together we can develop a sensible model of how we can overcome this critical phase. However, if you are criticised from the outset and say: The liberals are already bringing in 30 applications, which is bad anyway!, then there can be no basis for future good cooperation. I believe that this is not in the sense of the Austrian people who voted for this House only three months ago!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6078	I call Mr Heindl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6100	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! As always, this question has been raised, and whoever will put it in the future, I am in the position – Mr Trattner, I fully agree with you –: The issue of employment policy or unemployment – whatever it may be called – will be the dominant issue, not only today, not only next year, but it will continue to accompany us for a long time. If Mr. Haider says he's more interested in Austria, I'll answer him: We too, but we need to keep an eye on the whole situation. I fully agree with what Mr Trattner said: Let us not say in this really important question: What he or she or those say is bad! – There is no question at all: No one knows a patent recipe! I am really serious about this issue, read many foreign reports on this subject and have to say: Even most renowned scientists or practitioners do not have a patent recipe. That's the reality! Many things are playing with us that have led us to this situation. It was not until the last weekend that the "FAZ" was an editorial entitled "Development on the Labour Market" to read, and it is actually very modo to us when the "Leadarturist" writes: "In the complex structure of impact of the German economy, a lot has come together over the past decades, which is now at work on the labour market. This goes far beyond the key elements of the current debate, such as labour costs, tax burden." Then he counts on: The major problems of outsourcing, east opening, internal market in Europe, the development of trade blocks, the whole of world trade policy over the last three, four years, the rise of the Asian countries with not only repatriation policy, but true quality policy, not only combined with cheap wages, but also with genuinely high quality work. Mr Oellinger said that we used the word full employment: We could now argue whether full employment is achieved at 3.5 percent, at 3%, at 2.5 percent or at 0.5% unemployment. But please believe us one thing: Of course, it sounded good in the election campaign, but we also stand by it, and I think that's everyone – I hope that at least – that's a concern. There must be a high level of employment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is not only necessary for social policy or economic policy considerations. Finally, this is the basis for living on in peace. And anyone who does something against it harms the country, the economy and ultimately jobs more than some might assume. Mr Haider meant – I have already said it – that he is not interested in other countries. – We must be interested in other countries, however, ladies and gentlemen, because we are a strongly foreign-oriented country! Every third job in the Austrian economy, every second job in industry depends directly or indirectly on the operation of export. You can't say: I don't care what's going on all around! Ladies and gentlemen! One should not pretend that the fact that 308,000 jobs have been created over the last ten years is a coincidence. Of course, hundreds of thousands have also disappeared, but 308,000 net have been added. There's been good management. If one says that it is a requirement for the framework to vote, then they must have voted, otherwise there would be no plus of net 308,000 jobs. And if I let that apply, that must remain the same in the future. Assigned: The starting point is critical. I don't want to pray well now. There is much to be done when it comes to 300,000 unemployed people, and there is no discussion at all about it. But I am convinced – and not only because I am a born optimist – that we will master the problems. It would be unfair to say: We'll do that in a year! The current structural situation in Europe – I even say: the global one – requires rethinking in many areas. In many areas, there will be a need for change of consciousness, and I will talk about it later. In view of this, it would be unfair and, as I believe, really uncooperative to all colleagues in the world of work: We eliminate the problems with a program! An economic programme must have been in place, and in one year it will work. In many areas it will gnash, and it will take two, three, or perhaps more years. But I'm convinced we can handle the problems. Ladies and gentlemen! How does our starting position look? – I think you can say a calm conscience – you can criticize one or the other –: We find a good situation in wage costs, in productivity and in the quality of our labour force. With us, unit labour costs have not developed as in Germany. In contrast to Germany, which is our largest market, the parameters for this have developed well in recent years – and again in the OECD average and in comparison with our markets. Our export situation has also improved: Apart from 1993 the development was positive, it looked good last year, and despite the difficult situation, it looks good this year, but much to get in this area. But there surely our message cannot say: Let us see that we operate with low wages! So it cannot be called, because low wages mean using unqualified workers, and not using highly skilled workers means not producing high-quality products. But I'm convinced: Quality products are our future in export! This means, however, that we need to make the training and training offensive, which began one, two years ago, much more intensive. We must help to raise the social prestige of a skilled worker. Everyone has to be a maturant, please? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] Thank you. It is important that we agree. That's why I'm actually doing it, because each of us can contribute to it; I'm convinced of that. When we discuss the issue of employment, how are we going about our jobs? It plays an important role. We don't help a textile worker when we say: We need 100 good carpenters, and we don't find them, so we're going to train! - I can't do that! This is the problem of this work situation, which we find not only with us, but in Europe, namely that there are areas where you are looking for employees – quality must be present! – that we find more and more unemployed in the auxiliary labour force. This is a consequence of development in global policy: The more you rationalize, the more machines you put, the more the auxiliary workers are released. This creates other jobs. Consider the following example: If in Hong Kong someone in a textile factory replaces 5,000 textile workers with "highly qualified" - as the chancellor said - machines, they must first be produced and they must be waited. A friend from Hong Kong told me that he replaced 5,000 textile workers in Canton with machines, and he needed 400 people for the maintenance of these machines; qualified people, of course, because these are "qualified" machines. This means, of course, that the areas of activity are moving. If, as a small economy, we force this with a high level of basic training – immediately; let me say the sentence to the end – I am convinced that we will receive a high level of value added through export intensity and consequently a high level of pay for employees. [[Abg. Böhacker calls for an intermediate call]] That is to say, we are increasing the value added and we are increasing people's income, which is the whole social product that we are producing on quite different feet. - Please, excuse me. [[Abg. Böhacker: Completely d’accord! But what do I do with the 5,000 unemployed textile workers?]] You mean the Hong Kong example. This is hard, I have to admit, because there has to be a re-training. Again: That's hard, that's no question at all. [[Abg. Böhacker: Move away!]] So I'm going to be I'm sure you won't hear me say, Well, it's already found somewhere! You can't move this thing away. I said before – if you had listened to me, you knew –: I can't do this overnight! It would be unfair to say that the problem is solved at once. What I want to raise is the fact that we have good conditions, but we must do some important things quickly. In the service sector, a lot is changing. If we look at the service ratio of the American, Canadian and English economies, we see that there is a much higher factor in the service sector there. And there's a lot of change. Let's just look at ourselves and see how much will change. There will be new jobs in the health sector and new jobs are already available. There are also new jobs in health tourism. Only the people are trained. Masseur cannot be learned – if you want to be a good – within three months. If you have a good education, you have a highly-educated job. There are also new jobs when it comes to proper training. If we really continue to work consistently in the care sector, then there will be – I am convinced – thousands of new jobs. Only we need to change different things. So loose that you say everyone can do something by the way, it won't go. But employment is here, and we can also play a role in the field of the shadow economy. Only, that's where we have to own the Courage, to say: It is not a question of anyone who works side by side and earns 20 000 S, 30 000 S, not paying social security and no wage tax! We know that an estimated 100 billion schillings per year roam the shadow economy. This also creates wealth, but the whole public institutions, whatever they are, lack this money, and then we have budget problems again. That's how the circle closes. That's how you have to see it! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Höbinger teacher.]] Today I was very active – not because it is government members of the two government parties – both of the statements of Hums and of those of Ditz: If a government programme is set up in this direction if government policy is made in this direction, I am convinced that this country will also be able to cope with this situation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6178	Mr Schwarzenberger is now on the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6200	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The fact that there are already nearly 300,000 unemployed must, of course, all of us have to be concerned, and we all have to make our contribution and use our possibilities to create jobs for as many of our fellow citizens as possible. This must be an urgent task for all of us. Only: It is not possible to create work directly through laws, but it is possible to create the conditions for doing so. The aim is to shape the environment in such a way that our economy is competitive and can thus gain market shares in the European market. We still have an increasing number of jobs in the services sector in Austria, but we have been in the process of reducing the number of jobs in the manufacturing sector for some time now. This is the case in the industry, where rationalization causes a lot of jobs to be lost, but it is also true in agriculture. In 1950, around one million workers were still employed in agriculture. In the meantime, this figure has fallen to about 180 000 employees. This means that in the last 45 years or 40 years, some 800 000 jobs have been lost in agriculture. However, production in agriculture has increased almost twice in the same period. The 180 000 employees in 1995 produced more than twice as many agricultural products as the million workers in 1950. Never before had the table of the people been covered with products by the farmers in such good quality and as sufficient as it is in the present time. But there is a call for all consumers in Austria, primarily to use the goods produced by Austrians. This is not necessarily an affront against other European countries. Rather, if I buy Austrian food, which can be measured with all the other European food, I can contribute to the creation of jobs in Austria. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Krammer.]] However, we also have some initial successes, after a year ago we had to overcome very large border barriers to bring our food to European countries. The oberItalian market has always been regarded by us as a market of hope, and it has also proved to be a market of hope. Already in the first year of EU membership, we were able to increase agricultural exports to Italy by 75 percent. Within a year, an increase of 75 percent! If last year the agricultural trade deficit with Italy was still more than a billion schillings, we could already generate a surplus of 220 million schillings in the first nine months of 1995. But that does not mean that we can now put our hands in the lap, so to speak. We need a greater competitiveness of the food-processing economy, which is active both in the supply sector and in the downstream sector of agriculture. I hope that, after the directives for the sectoral plans have been negotiated with Brussels, Austrian businesses will be modernised and can also be better integrated into European markets. We must therefore pay particular attention to the preservation of farmed full-time farms, and this must also be the task of our advice. Due to our small-structured Austrian agriculture – at least half of the approximately 260 000 farms are smaller than ten hectares – we have a high proportion of auxiliary farmers. We always hear from the auxiliary workers the complaint to be, as it were, slave to work. There is an overload both to the farmer and to the farmer as a support farmer who, in addition to his work, still has the work to do on the farm. It will be necessary to make more extensive branches of farms, which are less labour-intensive, which will achieve a higher hourly wage in agriculture. There are more market opportunities for full-time enterprises, as full-time businesses will have to increase their production in the future. It will probably not be much inside in the price increase. But I hope it will be something inside, because at present the price level for agricultural products on the Austrian market has fallen below that of the European average, and I hope that in the next few years we will be able to achieve a European level by means of marketing measures. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Mr Schwarzenberger, what about the AMA?]] The AMA has already done quite valuable services. For example, there is the AMA seal for products that are proven to be 100 percent of Austrian goods. It is at least a guarantee for Austrian consumers that all products covered by this seal are 100% Austrian goods. First successes have already been achieved in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Maintaining and creating jobs in agriculture is also the goal of the new support for young purchasers, which is provided for by EU co-financing. This is a measure to give hope to the young farmer who is interested in taking over the farm and to provide him with particularly favourable loans, but also through direct support to modernize the farm. A measure is also the so-called ÖPUL programme, where there is an obligation to manage the operation for five years. However, the first successes have already been shown, because last year, in 1995, the number of pension applications, although it has increased very strongly throughout Austria, fell by 20 percent in agriculture. In 1995, 20% fewer farmers applied for pensions than in 1994. That is to say, there are some first signs that these measures are taking place. However, investment promotions are also necessary, because otherwise we are not in a position to compete in Europe in many areas. If other countries – I refer to South Tyrol – have particularly good opportunities, we must also have similar conditions in this area. However, it is necessary for some of the additional workers to be able to create and maintain jobs at reasonable distance from the farm. It is not possible for a utility farmer, who by the way manages the farm, to be a hiker or to have a job 80, 100 kilometres away from home. We are trying – this is a novum in Europe – with our own work foundations for farmers – in Styria, such a work foundation in planning, including in Upper Austria, is specifically designed for agriculture. The aim of these work foundations is to train farmers in regional management, but also to create a corresponding non-agricultural qualification in order to be able to take over jobs offered in the region. Energy tax is increasingly being discussed: I would, of course, be a real eco-tax much better than an energy tax. In the present difficult situation, however, it can be considered at least as a first step. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker]] Mr Böhacker, I remember: When there was a press conference in Salzburg two years ago and an eco-tax was demanded, you were the first to respond to it and wipe away eco-taxes from home as not portable for the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our problem is that at present renewable energy – and there would be a lot of resources in Austria – is largely based on labour performance and is not, so to speak, taken on the stocks of our planet Earth. There is almost all the work, and this work is much more taxed than raw materials that we only extract from the planet Earth. This is also due to the fact that renewable energy is currently scarcely competitive under current conditions. We would have the opportunity to produce much larger quantities such as biodiesel. We would have the opportunity to use our bracing surfaces for renewable raw materials to generate energy. This would be much better because then something would be produced on these surfaces. Unfortunately, this is hardly possible under current conditions, because if we are to take the Toronto target seriously and want to significantly reduce CO2 taxation by 2005, we will have to do so. I hope there are reasonable agreements that the eco-tax can be gradually implemented during this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6277	Mrs Langthaler has reported on business treatment.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6298	Mr President. I request adjournment of the sitting and the convening of a President. The reasons for this are as follows: We have heard this evening at half past six o'clock that we have probably found skeletons of Jewish concentration camp victims on the Lambach power plant. It is useful and necessary to discuss at the Presidential Conference how to deal with the urgent question of the Greens and, above all, with the request for a stop to construction, and let the individual clubs advise under the amended framework conditions, i.e. give the opportunity to discuss this again.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6325	I interrupt the sitting for an indefinite period of time and ask for a presidential meeting to be held. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6350	I would ask you to take the seats so that we can resume the interrupted session. Ladies and gentlemen! I can inform you in the following way: The President-in-Office of the Council, in the course of the part-session, was concerned with the impact of the discovery of war graves on the site of the planned power plant Lambach and made the following conclusions: First of all, we believe that the discovery of war graves on this site has created a new situation that needs to be responded with sensitivity. Secondly, Of course, the federal provisions of the Austrian War Tomb are to be observed precisely. Thirdly, Up to the clarification of the related issues and up to a report by the Minister of the Interior to the National Council, members of the Presidential Conference expect a stop at least in the grave field. The head of state of Upper Austria will be contacted immediately in order to obtain information on the further procedure. Fourth: In these circumstances, the Green Group has its urgent question raised today, at least for today's 4. National Council meeting withdrawn. A further presidential conference will take place tomorrow immediately before the beginning of the plenary session. The beginning of the plenary session will be 11 a.m. We are now continuing to complete the agenda. Before completing the urgent question, Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, made a statement on business treatment, as I believe. – I therefore give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6407	Mr President. I do not want to talk about business treatment, but I would like to say that I have telephoned with the head of state in Upper Austria. Tomorrow, at 8.30 p.m., all authorities including the Ministry of the Interior will meet and advise on the further procedure within the meaning of the law and inform us immediately.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6431	Thank you for the communication. I do not have any further comments on business treatment. Continued urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6456	We are now continuing to deal with the urgent question. I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. In terms of speaking time, we agreed unanimously and unanimously for 15 minutes. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6480	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Honourable honourable Members Hostasch – in absence! In analyzing, it is said, we are Austrian world champions, but in implementation we do not bring anything further. By changing this old saying you can only say: Healthy is a discipline of the Federal Chancellor in which he is the world champion. In the discipline of loss of reality, however, it is even better. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The good mood in the SPÖ is that multiple references and Pragmatization are likely to lead to job security. [[Calls and calls to the SPÖ and to the Freeman.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Just talk to me, I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6522	I call Mr Prinzhorn. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6555	Mrs Hostasch considered it right to talk about the employment of the Hamburg company and my group of companies and to say first of all that we have outsourced jobs to Hungary. I can only tell you: This is a false report! We have not distributed a job to Hungary. We took over national enterprises there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We took over national enterprises and unfortunately had to reduce jobs there. But no job in Austria has been reduced. [[Renewed calls and countercalls at the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] You laugh! You're glad! I understand! There has not been a single job lost in Austria. [[Abg. Arbitrators: However, jobs have been reduced in Hungary!]] However, Mrs Hostasch said that jobs have been reduced in Austria! [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Right! Because we have taken over state-owned businesses where you have unfortunately lost jobs too late. And now we are facing the dictatorship of empty cash, and this is the approach that our employment initiative is now at the same time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6611	Ladies and gentlemen! Many, many years ago, in the good old age, there was the custom of making a career so as to listen to them too! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would ask Mr Prinzhorn to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6643	Let me give you a little more time, ladies and gentlemen. In spite of our sad budgetary situation, the employment initiative we are setting out here today contains a number of measures: We have already talked about privatisation and long-term social security. At the top, however, there is no doubt that there is flexibility and red tape. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Like any company, the company must decompose Austria in order to become more productive and thus create jobs. We have seen this in many other European countries: Only when productivity is given in the government budget until the budget is correct will the employment situation be right. [[Abg. Koppler: Where is that?]] This is true for Europe as well as for England. Look If you take the privatisation steps in England, Mr Koppler, you will see all this! [[Complaints and intervocations with the liberals.]] In England the phone works, but not with us! [[New condolences with the liberals.]] Let us talk about the other points. We still have a number of other points to discuss. In the end, we want to put this employment initiative through the fact that we are introducing a forceful technology policy, as we have been calling for for it for decades, with a research promotion rate that is quite different from what we find in Austria today. Today we have a fragmented research funding system. Mr Novotny! You know that best. Our current 1.6% quota represents about half of the European average. We need to make our education and technology offensive the basis of our employment initiative. We will also make a corresponding request in this regard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We need to improve the material infrastructure and promote rapid liberalisation of the energy sector and the telecommunications sector. As a representative of an export-oriented entrepreneur, believe me: We stand half a day each month next to the collapsed main line network of our telephone lines. You're gonna laugh. But I'm telling you: If you can't handle and accept orders anymore, it's not funny. Our telecommunications network is unique in Europe. We urgently need to strengthen the capital base. There have been several demands on appropriate fiscal measures today. Another point is the privatisation of public services. Public services must be privatised as it is today in Hungary, much faster than in Austria. That's why a lot of things work there and we don't. We have to do the same with ourselves! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The state and federal assets, but also the assets of the chambers, pension insurance and workers' chambers, can ultimately be used for privatisation, sale and partial sale, in order to provide us with the liquidity for the employment initiative, which you are urgently seeking and for which you announce tax revenue as the only means, as we have heard in the last few days and hours. – To implement a budget reorganisation and long-term security of the social system of this kind, we will be free, not least in the German "Economieblatt" of 13. December, tested. There you can read about the exemplary economic and location security program of the Freemans. You should only read it once! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Novotny introduced the only employment initiatives on this issue by saying: We need to increase public administration, which represents the only expanding sector of employment and services; we cannot reduce the number of officials, but we must increase them. – This is a bit contrary to what your party has said otherwise. In addition, I believe that you will not be able to achieve budgetary adjustment on the expenditure side either. In the final analysis, the competitive situation that we urgently need is also reflected in our budget. And the fact that we have 22 percent public employees over the OECD section of 15 percent is quite scandalous! Privatisation policy at national and local level is therefore a promising initiative. Approaches regarding property of the ÖBB and also the Federal Forest, which we have today as a reserve in Austria, but which you must first introduce laws in order to introduce liquidity reserves also to the Minister of Finance, are documented by you for 20 years, but you have done nothing to date. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Structural reforms in the pension system are also pending. Finally, I would not recommend a deterioration of the framework conditions for self-sufficiency, because we also need self-sufficiency in pension systems. Mr Krammer! We need structural reforms in the health sector, we need performance-related hospital financing and transparency of costs so that people know what it costs when they go to the hospital and when they leave it again. We have proposed a number of such measures to you, and we have heard such proposals for 10, 20 years not least from our friends of the ÖVP in a placid form. But as I said, In analyzing we are world champions, but we do not implement the findings. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The renewal of the right of working time with the full transfer of the regulatory power to collective agreements and operating agreements is a long-term requirement. You know very well that the review of the powers of labour inspectorates would also be urgently necessary. Modernisation of plant rights, even if we have very little new start-ups this year, would be necessary. [[Abg. Leikam: Shame for Haigermoser!]] Deputies! It's nice that you say that! Be a little nice to me, Mr Deputies. Listen to me when I say something! – It is necessary to concentrate the process in terms of facilitating the establishment of a plant. We also need to shorten the time limits for administrative procedures. All this is known to you. Even insolvency law requires a review for us. Let me now, however, make a request from my colleagues and myself on the forced technology and training policy concerning measures to harmonise and improve technology and research promotion. [[Quoted print version removed]] So much for the motion for a resolution. Of course, we need to increase the research allowance to 30 percent. We also have a number of proposals concerning measures to strengthen the material infrastructure and to speed up liberalisation in the energy sector. They know that the energy sector is a highly fragmented sector with poor productivity and constantly rising energy costs. We therefore call for the creation of free access for large-scale customers and a pooling within the framework of a modern energy economic law, but not for the German Reichsenergiegesetze. Finally, we also need a privatisation of the Telekom area and the post office. Strengthen the equity base of companies and other fiscal measures such as promoting venture capital participation in young, technology-oriented enterprises: These are job creation measures. We can only create it with further training and increased technology to reduce the unemployment rate of 300 000, mainly due to quality defects and lack of training. In energy policy, we have proposed a recasting of the tax system. We have also linked the energy tax – as our clubman Dr. Haider has said – to a reduction in VAT, to the removal of the municipal tax and to a gradual reduction in the drinking tax. They see that we are also breaking our heads on structural measures, because we believe that this will also create jobs. The employment policy, to which Mr Peter, before he heard it, has made a compliment on the fact that our economic policy has nothing to do with it anyway, is certainly not only about the decommissioning premiums of hotel beds, Mr Peter, but we will very much continue to force the additional wage reduction, because you know that we have a lot to do in the labour costs sector. [[Complaints with the liberals]] And we're going to push expenditure shift towards private – because I think the public share has already adopted a measure that is unbearable – according to the motto: Make independent people out of us Austrians, stop politics in all areas of life and politics, unravel the state and tell the proporz, ladies and gentlemen, good fortune!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6785	The motion for a resolution on measures to harmonise and improve technology and research promotion is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Peter referred to an actual correction. I do not need to repeat the provisions of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6811	High house! Mr. Prinzhorn has rested in his virgin speech to attack me. Unfortunately, his attacks were incorrect. He claimed I'd demand lockup premiums for hotel beds. This does not correspond to the truth. We broke our heads on exit models. Admissible premiums have never been required.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6850	The next speaker is Dr. Puttinger. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e6871	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many things could be answered or discussed with Mr Prinzhorn. I just want to say one thing: If he already wants to use the wealth of the Chamber of Commerce for job security, he should not use most of this book in his speech. [[shows it before]] I think that's a book of the Chamber of Commerce. If he already wants to use the assets for job security, at least he should not use the documents in the last instance. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: He is a member of you!]] I think it's a little funny to act like that. This is a situation that is not quite understandable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Numbers, but don't do anything! He's also a member!]] You want to pay, but then take advantage of it and pay nothing, that's much worse. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Questions of urgency, ladies and gentlemen, or special meetings of the National Council are good and necessary opportunities to express urgent problems. Unfortunately, they are usually used for dramatization and not for real problem solutions. But today we have to talk about the fate of 300,000 unemployed people and take it seriously. The only question is whether we are profiled at the expense of these or whether we are fighting the symptoms and going to the root of the causes. The causes of unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, are more structural than economic at this time and also in the future. And for me, the main points are the cost issue, the issue of supply and, of course, the fight against abuse. The main point for me is labour costs. I do not have to act here as a defender of Mr Prinzhorn, but I would like to help him: Austria's labour market policy cannot do anything with its traditional instruments if industrial firms have to break their tents and go abroad due to the high system costs in this country. These entrepreneurs are then accused that they only have their profits in mind. However, we should be slowly aware that it is only possible for workers to do well if the economy is doing well and vice versa. The cost of labour, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, since 1980 have more than doubled. They rose by 116 percent, much higher than the EU average, in Sweden by only 29 percent. The German metal industry has also recently referred to the direct link between labour costs and employment. Reforms have been announced, even though some sacred cows need to be slaughtered, such as general real wage increases, not a flexible collective contract policy. It should be possible, particularly in crisis situations, for undertakings to make special arrangements for the protection of workers on a time-limit in agreement with the Works Council of the Sectoral Collective Treaty. The second important point, ladies and gentlemen, is certainly supply demand. The offer of work is falling. Support programmes are an important measure, but with special actions for persons on the margins of the labour market, the lack of adequate commercial grounds cannot be reduced, administrative procedures cannot be simplified, flexible working time models, working time models cannot be introduced. Even 300 million schilling labour market promotions are unlikely to make entrepreneurs out of long-term unemployed, as this 300 million schilling project in labour market promotion is currently under way. We need to turn the traffic lights on green for research and technology promotion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: For God's sake!]] Please note that last year, the figure for this was reduced from 1.64 per cent to 1.5 per cent of gross social product. We need to turn the lights on green for investment projects. Towing approval procedures, delays in the release of construction contracts, problems with financing are the biggest brakes that we have to eliminate. The increase in the amount of investment is as adequate as the reform of the Advisory Council. [[Abg. Böhacker: How long will you rule now?]] I'll come to you soon! . Here we hope for the joy of reforming all the political partners in this country. But if you are just speaking to me from Salzburg, I would like to bring an example from Salzburg that you should take a little to heart. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: He only asked how long you will be in the government!]] If you are talking about the delay in time for public orders, please think of your councillor Karl Schnell in Salzburg, who has been acting as an act for a new construction of the district headquarters of Sankt Johann since 11. It's in the office. It's in the office. It's in the office. It's in the office. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That's not true! Please don't tell the untruth!]] Mr Landesrat Schnell should have prepared a government decision only for the approval of the plan. That hasn't happened to this day! So far, you have delayed the construction of a project that would bring 108 million schilling to the construction industry for seven months. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is delay, which is also the policy of the F! You can't put in continuous action that you want from the butter authority, but you can go on the service with milk. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's something that's not possible. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, take this to heart too! Thirdly, it is important for me to stop abuses. It is estimated that in Austria a turnover of 150 billion Schilling is allocated to the Push. And if I only assume that every third billion schilling goes to the commercial coup and therefore costs jobs, I think, the removal of this fact alone could create 50,000 jobs. It is important to eliminate abuses and to introduce tougher measures, especially against the commercial coup. For example, in Sweden – because this example is being brought back again and again – a unemployed person who works black at the same time, not only risks having to repay the unemployment benefit that is related to him, but also to be sued for fraud and not to receive support for 130 days in addition. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to get a summary and go into all these points that have been called x-times today. I would just like to conclude by saying: Much has been said and analyzed. We are now finally doing something about the causes of structural unemployment, immediately! Let us not discuss the same subject in a special session and on the same day in the context of an urgent request, brought back by the same party, but let us go about discussing less this important issue than acting! Let us jointly resolve the innovation situation and let us change for the positive future of all people in this country! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7001	Mr Haigermoser has referred to an actual correction. Please, first to correct the case, then the case to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7023	High house! Mr President. For the sake of the Rules of Procedure, I should like to say once again that it is incorrect, as Mr Puttinger has said, that the National Council has quickly delayed the construction of the bra for seven months. This claim is incorrect. It is true, rather, that the ÖVP government members together with the Socialists have prevented this construction until now.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7053	The next speaker is Mr Blünegger. He's got the floor. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: Personal reply!]] Mr President, a personal response is not possible on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Blünegger.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7083	High house! Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. When I heard our Chancellor today, I remembered the 1995 election campaign when he said: Now, quickly creating jobs! So I think we're on the right subject. He said this in the election campaign. We liberals have requested a special meeting on "Save jobs". And if the Federal Chancellor accepts our requests we have made and submitted, he will certainly help create jobs and secure jobs. If I had heard the report by Mr Sozialminister and the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs, I would have expected something that you would actually owe to the citizens, the workers, the pensioners, and you should have had the courage to do so. They should have apologized to these people for the failure of the previous government, where this problem actually arose. That would have been the right way, I think. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I believe that economic policy is employee policy, and the product labour is an equivalent partner in our free market economy. [[Abg. Oils: More than the other way round!]] . Ladies and gentlemen, you will probably not know this because you are not a free Member, perhaps under compulsion, but we ourselves want it to be certain that the product "work" is considered an equivalent partner. The labour force shall not be subject to such a high tax burden. We certainly have a way to change that. We liberals today have a motion for a resolution on the cold progression that I would like to read about: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can only call on all of you to agree to this request. I believe that in order to improve the economic location of Austria and to increase the quality of life of people, we need a wide range of private and state measures that work together. And I would have to mention three points. A quality offensive certainly prevents unemployment. Almost all the unemployed reported in December 1995 were poorly trained. According to labour market service, there is a statistics. Of the 270 000 unemployed in Austria in December, 230 000 had no completed training. [[Abg. Oillings: How many jobs?]] It is far more important, Mr Oellinger, that I do not address your question at all, because I can only say one thing to you: If we take these figures seriously – these are from the book of labour market service – we need to create the opportunity to operate a qualification offensive to train these workers, because you yourself know very well, Madam Members, that if you are a woman back into work, you have the greatest difficulties in getting a job, and you do not have the corresponding training, because unfortunately she is not financed. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: How do you get these numbers?]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: That's me!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another point is to set up an innovation offensive, and I believe that is also the right way, because we have heard today, among other things, that small and medium-sized enterprises need to be encouraged and built up in order to create 40 000 new jobs. An innovation offensive is therefore securely appropriate. It's the same with the third point, the technology offensive. We should also take this offensive very seriously, because even if we had budget cuts, it would be, I believe, not forward-looking to cut the budget in this area, but it must be co-financed. This would also mean that direct telecommunications should receive an expansion stage. Ladies and gentlemen. The threat to Austrian jobs is a fact, and there are some points that I would like to make. Unemployment is no longer a problem a few less. If we consider that in 1995 620,000 people in Austria were burdened with unemployment, then it is certain that we can say that unemployment is no longer a small problem. About a quarter of the number of unemployed men today are over 50 years old, and that is exactly where the lever has to be mounted. Neither should these people be pushed to the brink of their existence, but have the right to also have a job. A third point is: In 1995, most of the unemployed were middle-aged. There is also a report that among the 270 000 unemployed the group of 30 to 40 years old is 79 158 unemployed, which is 29.3 percent, and this 29.3 percent means an increase of 10.4 percent compared to 1994. And that's certainly an alarm sign. I believe that the unemployment rate has increased everywhere, in all the federal states, and it is certainly necessary from my side as a trade unionist to mention some points. I certainly do not cover myself with the statements of Vice-President Nürnberger, who spoke of a zero-son round. I believe that the zero-one round cannot solve the problem of securing jobs. But you can certainly do one thing: It should be an inflationary wage round, which would be much safer, where I can at least guarantee that the purchasing power of the individual workers will not be reduced. An inflation wage round is certainly the right way and not a zero-one round with a loss of income. [[Abg. Oillinger: Don't read your own papers?]] I've done so many papers myself, where I'm sure to handle the product "work" properly, because that's really a performance, and others who don't work are still sitting in there. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I do not think that the subject of "flexible working hours" needs to be taken on and on its own, because we have already taken this issue decades ago by the liberal workers, including in various trade unions. There's one person or another who hasn't trusted in it yet. It is certainly our invention, and we will realize it accordingly, together with the social partners. The reduction in the additional wage costs for older workers should not be a vision for us. She should not be a vision, but she should also be a new model. Perhaps we will come to grips with a new model, that this problem will be addressed and that it will come to fruition. Not only will it be sufficient to make collective agreements in a modified form, but it will also be necessary to tackle the immediate bonus-malus system. And there is no matter who is famous for fatherhood, but that should simply be realized. We have also drawn up a motion for a resolution on the promotion of the employment of older workers, and I should also like to read it out now: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think we know that in the field of transport technology Austria is very well developed in this sector of the economy. Much has happened, and the Federal Government has certainly made the biggest mistake because it has simply slept the framework for protecting the local transport and vehicle industry vis-à-vis the EU. The directives and framework conditions that would have actually been adopted have not been complied with. We must therefore say today in an industry, in the vehicle industry: We arrived in the area at a dilemma. We know that Simmering-Graz-Pauker has short work, we know that Elin, ABB, Bombardier also have difficulties with the order situation of their businesses. And we know very well that even in Tyrol it has caught a renowned company, where Mr Klima's commitments in 1994 were such that he made promises before the National Council election in September before the staff, after which the location of the vehicle industry in Tyrol is secured. He has not yet complied with this, only 140 jobs have become less. If you make such promises, you probably cannot become a particularly good finance minister either. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, today my appeal to you to agree with the motions for resolutions that we have tabled, to the SPÖ Group, as well as to the EIA Group, to agree to these requests for the benefit and security of jobs and our economy.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7251	The two motions for resolutions Böhacker, Blünegger and Dr. Haider, Dolinschek are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. I call Mr Rosenstingl. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7276	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Puttinger! You have given an impeccable opposition speech here, at least in sub-areas. You have just forgotten here, Mr Commissioner, that at least now you are still a government party, or in recent years you have been a government party, that in the Chambers of Commerce throughout Austria you are asking the presidents that you would have been able to take part in the past. You could have changed the trade regulations already, you could have improved the Prusher control you have addressed, you could have operated the site security, you could have taken accompanying measures in tax laws – you just didn't do anything! You just didn't do anything, Mr. Puttinger. It is therefore true that this debate is under the motto: We announce a lot, we talk a lot about the things to be done, but we're not doing anything! – And that’s the problem in your time of government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! I am glad that you mentioned me so often or so much. I would just ask you to read my press releases if you quote them. No doubt you did not, for I have said, Mr Federal Minister, that we need transport routes, that it is important to expand them, that there is no transport plan, because the Federal Minister for Climate is there for many years, that there is no priority line and that transport infrastructure investment should be considered for urgency, economic efficiency, environmental impact, and in particular for job creation. I asked for this in my press release, and it is not enough for me to say quite simply: We invest 60 billion somewhere and don't pay any attention to all of this. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, I believe that we should comply with the laws. You know very well that this measure, this agreement on the 60 billion, neither the Federal Finance Act nor any other special federal law within the meaning of the kind. 42 para. 4 Federal Constitutional Act. That is why this is illegal, and we will certainly still be talking about how this can be solved in the National Council. And I said that in my press release and nothing else! So please quote me correctly in the future! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor, who made a very emotional speech today, said he will do everything, he will change a lot. We now give him the opportunity to make several requests, which you, the speakers, have repeatedly called for in the debate today. We want to give you the opportunity to agree here to realize your own ideas. We've got the courage. We can and we trust to bring it in. You may not be allowed to do so because the Federal Chancellor of the ÖVP has forbidden it, but we give you the opportunity to agree. I can now read a few requests, first of all. [[Quoted print version removed]] Another [[Quoted print version removed]] I am now submitting a further motion for a resolution by Mrs Krüger and others on job losses through the budgetary reorganisation of the Federal Government. [[Quoted print version removed]] I propose a further motion for a resolution by Mrs Krüger and others on the protection of jobs in the HTM Group. [[Quoted print version removed]] Another request by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Stadler and colleagues on a comprehensive form of bureaucrats are as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another request made by colleagues Dr. Haider, Dr. Ofner and comrades concerns the reform of insolvency rights to improve rehabilitation opportunities. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! Listen, and agree! Not only do you speak, but you will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Another resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek and colleagues concerns the pension system of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a request from Mr Böhacker and colleagues concerning the pension reserve of the Austrian National Bank. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a request from Mr Aumayr, Mr Koller, Mr Ing. Reichhold, Dr. Salzl, Wenitsch and colleagues on agricultural and forestry site security. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make a further request from Mr Preisinger and colleagues on the introduction of an educational check for all citizens in education. [[Quoted print version removed]] A request from Mr Ing. Reichhold and colleagues concern the financing and completion of the section "Völkermarkt West – Klagenfurt Ost" of the A 2 South motorway (Lückenschluß). [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schöll and colleagues on the merger of BGV I, BGV II and the BIG. [[Quoted print version removed]] I also propose an important motion for a resolution for a resolution on the economy, which Mr Maderthaner certainly agrees with, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker, Mr Haigermoser, Mr Rosenstingl and colleagues on tax advantages from non-profits. [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to you today, we have tabled applications for measures to ensure job security and for further job creation in Austria. There are many requests to include the measures that have been requested in the past by many of your Members, for example by colleagues who are stupid or by colleagues from the Social Democrats. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I really ask you in the interests of the Austrian economy, especially small and medium-sized workers and their employees, because the small and medium-sized economy is the largest employer in Austria to agree to our requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7661	The numerous motions for resolutions tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Rosenstingl, are sufficiently supported. You're on treatment. Mr Böhacker came next to me. – Mr Böhacker! I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7685	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to begin by saying a few brief words to colleagues Puttinger from Salzburg, who have aged over the fact that Mr Prinzhorn is said to have used a publication of the Chamber of Commerce. . In this context, I should just like to point out that Mr Prinzhorn is paying massively forced contributions to the Chamber, and it is a misconception when Mr Puttinger believes that the Chamber of Commerce is still private property of the EIA. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Bundeskanzler was reserved to qualify the intentions of the liberals to ecologize tax law as a workplace-destruction and anti-location. He has established this with the steel industry. [[Abg. Koppler: Who was that?]] The Federal Chancellor. He put on Donawitz. The Federal Chancellor should read the requests for freedom. It would be very good! He would thus expand his knowledge horizon a little, and he would not, in particular, make such false statements. It may be possible to read briefly the liberal application for eco-tax reform. – There it says: "As an essential condition for a free consent to eco-taxes, it is necessary to include at least temporary exemptions for energy-intensive and export-oriented industries and manufacturing businesses in addition to the reduction of additional labour costs, as the competitiveness of Austria's economic location should not be jeopardised when it comes to the introduction of energy taxes." I know the SPÖ is going another way: Under the cover "Ecotax Reform", it introduces massive pressures on the economy and consumers without introducing a revenue neutrality. – We reject that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, as already announced, to make a number of motions for resolutions. First of all, I shall put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker, Mr Mag. Trattner, Rosenstingl and colleagues on tax relief of work factor through an ecological reform of the Austrian tax system include: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider and colleagues concerns the discharge of businesses by debureaucratisation. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and colleagues on the advanced implementation of an intensive work programme for the construction industry. [[Quoted print version removed]] Another motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schöll and others concerns the revision of the housing law on non-profit-making. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider and others on the reduction of chamber charges. [[Quoted print version removed]] Another motion for a resolution concerns support measures for seasonal farms to relieve unemployment insurance by extending the season. [[Quoted print version removed]] I shall now bring in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker and others on the increase in the investment exemption: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker and others concerns the indirect promotion of risk capital. [[Quoted print version removed]] A motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and others on the introduction of the Luxembourg model is now being tabled. [[Quoted print version removed]] Another motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rossmann and others is the abolition of the excise duty on beverages. [[Quoted print version removed]] I'll come to the end. The last motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and others concerns the reduction of VAT rates. [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to ask the House, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of these motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7937	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Böhacker are also sufficiently supported. You're on treatment. I now speak as the last speaker in this debate, Mr Dr. Novotny. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e7961	Mr President. High house! The members of the FPÖ have now submitted a number of requests, starting with the Prince's horn. I ask you to understand that I will now confine myself to two comments after midnight. First of all, but a short comment. Mr Prinzhorn! I fully share the view of President Fischer that a "young speaker" should be treated here with forbearance. I have respect – and I can say that quite openly – when an active entrepreneur moves into the National Council. I do not want to go into the sometimes turbulent history of an entrepreneur, but I think it is to be welcomed that we have someone like you here in the House. I just think you should be careful to act here with a possible self-confidence. I would really like you to have a better political destiny here than Mr Gudenus, whom you sometimes reminded me of today. . But I believe that we will, together, find ourselves a political dialogue here. With regard to the substance of the matter, I would just like to refer to a point which has just been tabled as a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker, namely the question of an energy tax. Perhaps we can clarify this very briefly, because that has not actually become quite clear. Mr Haider has said that this energy tax should have an increase of 42 billion schilling. My question is: Should this energy tax now be lifted in addition to the existing mineral oil tax or not? I would be interested, Mr Haider, if you could give us an answer. In relation, if you are so busy, perhaps another can also give an answer: Should the energy tax now be in addition to the mineral oil tax or instead of the mineral oil tax? Did you think about it? – Obviously not! You don't know, okay. [[Abg. Haigermoser: We don't give you any answer at all!]] So you're not giving me an answer. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: Read application!]] I could not read the request, the request has been read out. And so beautiful you didn't read it that you could understand. Could you please explain this to us? [[Abg. May. Stadler: Do homework!]] So I see my fear has come true. You don't know exactly what you mean, and you don't know for good reason. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] You just need to say: Is that taken into account, yes or no? [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read the request!]] Can you get it out of your mind? – Obviously not! As I said, This is an example of the fact that things are simply not thought through. I have to tell you quite clearly. If the mineral oil tax is included – the mineral oil tax currently has a volume of 31 billion schilling – the hot 11 billion schilling is available to us. And so, in your request, you want to reduce or abolish the municipal tax, abolish the drinking tax, reduce VAT, and create a social suspension. All this you want to do with hot 11 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not serious, it cannot be taken seriously in this form. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I asked you. You could just answer that and say yes or no. But there is something to consider, and that obviously has not happened! But I would like to give you a second tip free of charge. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr Schneider will be politely grateful to you!]] I was just about to talk to colleagues Schneider. His remarks clearly have you studied very carefully, so precisely that in your writing "Ally for Jobs" you always speak of a Professor Johannes Schneider, Linz. – I can give you a little tip: The man's name is not John, he's Friedrich. But you didn't notice that either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I'm friends with him: He's called Fritz Schneider, I know that very well. [[Abg. Haigermoser: Friedrich Johannes Schneider!]] Dear colleague! That's no use to you either. I'd suggest: Look You do this, and you come back when you look at it, then we can talk more about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to go into this somewhat inflatory potpourri of FPÖ applications. We have decided to present a central motion for a resolution instead of such a motion for a resolution, summarising the central points of this debate. I am now bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Vergestnich, Dr. Schüssel, Hostasch, Schwarzböck, Dr. Mr Höchtl, Dr. Novotny and Mr Neugebauer on employment policy initiatives. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: Bravo!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Haigermoser: Where are the concrete measures?]] Ladies and gentlemen! These individual points summarise what has been described in concrete and detailed terms by the speakers and the members of the government in today's debate. I think this is a good summary of this debate, which shows what the priorities of a concrete employment-oriented economic policy can look like. I would therefore ask you to agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8158	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Nowotny is sufficiently supported. He's on treatment. The next speaker was Member of Parliament, Nuremberger, speaking. – Deputies! I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8182	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you, first of all, to apologise that I speak not only in the spirit hour but also in the spirit hour. Allow me to speak for a few minutes after I have been quoted several times today as regards wage policy in this country and the organization I may represent, which is nevertheless responsible for a few hundred thousand people in that country. Well, it would be good to all, to the media rapporteurs, to journalists, to all those who speak on the pay round, if one could agree on a language arrangement, which means "zero round". One understands a real zero son round, the other wants to know the inflation rate. Perhaps one can agree that a zero is a zero, so nothing, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to my statements: No one will be able to prove to me that I have ever called myself for an actual zero son round. I have been asked for the first time when President Zwickel of the IG Metall made his proposal and has been willing to complete the wages at the level of the inflation rate. As a result, I have been asked by some journalists what I am saying about this revolutionary proposal and what I think about the fact that the IG Metall has found that there is a link between the situation of jobs and labour costs. As a result, I have allowed myself to point out that the Austrian trade unions have always known this connection and that the organization I represent went further in 1993 than the content of the German proposal, namely that we have offered an actual – the emphasis on "real" – zero-union round in the form of a business opening clause. The second time I gave my opinion in a schilling interview, which asked me about Mr Maderthaner's proposal to limit wage increases with the inflation rate in the next few years and to set up 50 000 new businesses with 250 000 employees. Since we have the principle of not rejecting reasonable proposals from the outset, on behalf of my organization I have not rejected Mr Maderthaner's proposal, but have signalled willingness to talk and, on this occasion, in the Schilling interview, I have again pointed out that we have already been prepared in 1993 to agree an actual zero-one round in the form of the opening clause. I have not spoken with a word for a real zero-son round for the wage round or the wage round ahead of us. But I said clearly and clearly: If there are reasonable proposals and comprehensible job guarantees, then we will be able to talk at any time with the trade unions as a whole and, in particular, with the Metalworking Union. A comment – if I am already speaking – to Mr Puttinger. Deputies! I am willing to discuss with you the proposal you have put forward here to make business wage agreements. I would like to provide you with the documentation on our experiences regarding the opening clause. If you read it through, you will probably expect that this proposal is not acceptable to us at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm allowed to underline: The trade unions as a whole, and in particular those I may represent, have always pursued a responsible wage policy, of course for the benefit of workers. The result of this is that, in the first place, the number of persons employed in the labour market is higher than the number of persons employed in the labour market than the number of persons employed in the labour market. ==References== In October of this year, a colleague or colleague with the lowest income will increase the wage of 11 600 s over the next 12 months. This is a monthly wage that so many in this country do not yet deserve. As I said, We have a responsible wage policy to ensure, on the one hand, the standard of living of our members, but also in the interests of economic conditions. In this way, we will continue to pursue wage policy this year, and we will do the payroll accounts if it is time for the metal workers to do so again in the autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8237	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen! The opulence of these motions for resolutions now leads us to have a longer vote. I shall now begin with the vote. We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Principality and comrades on measures to harmonise and improve technology and research promotion. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on cold progression. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This request did not reach the majority, it was rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haider and others on the promotion of the employment of older people. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign of approval. – Nor does this request find the majority and is it rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider and Mr Comrades on comprehensive measures against rising unemployment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenstingl and Mr Comrades on the collection of a one-time special dividend from economically successful state enterprises. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades on securing jobs in the HTM Group. Whoever is in favour of this request, I would ask him to give a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Krüger and Mr Comrades on job losses through the budgetary reorganisation of the Federal Government. Whoever is in favour of this request, I would ask him to give a corresponding sign of approval. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stadler and comrades with regard to a comprehensive form of bureaucrats. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider and Mr Comrades on the reform of the insolvency right in order to improve the possibilities for rehabilitation. Whoever is in favour of this request, I would ask him to give a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on the pension system of the Oesterreichische National Bank. Whoever is in favour of this request may give a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the pension reserve of the Austrian National Bank. Whoever is in favour of this request, I would ask him to give a corresponding sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Anna Elisabeth Aumayrond Comrades on agricultural and forestry site security. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Preisinger and Mr Comrades on the introduction of an educational check for all citizens in training. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold and comrades concerning the financing and completion of the section "Völkermarkt West – Klagenfurt Ost" of the A 2 South motorway (Lückenschluß). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schöll and Mr Comrades on the merger of BGV I, BGV II and the BIG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the tax advantage of non-profits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on tax relief of work by means of an ecological reform of the Austrian tax system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Haider and comrades on the discharge of businesses by debureaucratisation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Reichhold and comrades on the advanced implementation of an intensive work programme for the construction industry. Those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request may be aware of this by means of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schöll and comrades concerning the renewal of the housing benefit law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign of approval. – That too is the minority. The application has been rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Haider and Mr Comrades on the reduction of chamber charges. Those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request may be aware of this by means of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann and Mr Comrades on support measures for seasonal farms to relieve unemployment insurance by extending the season. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the increase in the investment exemption. In this case, the vote was called for. This request has been made by 20 Members, and the vote must therefore be taken. The ballots to be used are located in the drawers of the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion to put 'yes' votes, those who vote against 'no' vote in favour. I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Parfuss, to start with the name call; Mrs Rosemarie Bauer will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8570	The vote will end. The officials of the House who are responsible for this will now vote under the supervision of the scribes. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8603	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. A total of 173 votes were cast, of which "Yes" votes 40, "No" votes 133. The motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. The names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. With "Yes", the Members voted: Apple beck, Aumayr; Bauer Holger, Blünegger, Böhacker, Brauneder; Dolnschek; Tomb, groldish; Haider, Haigermoser, Haller, Haupt, Höbinger-Lehrer, Hofmann; Koller, Krüger; Lauter; Madl, Meischberger, Meisinger, Mentil; Of which: Partik-Pablé, Povysil, Preisinger, Prinzhorn, Pumberger; Reichhold, Rosenstingl, Rossmann, Ruthofer; Salzl, Scheibner, Schöggl, Schöll, Stadler; Trattner, Trenk; Wenitsch. With 'No', the Members voted: Ablinger, Achs, Antoni, Auer, Bartenstein, Bauer Rosemarie, Bauer Sophie, Brader, Brix, Buder, Bures; Cap; Dietachmayr, Ditz, Donabauer, Eder, Ederer, Edler, One, Elmecker, Fassleven, Fekter, Ferrero-Waldner, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Fischer, Freser, Frieser, Fuchs, Fuhrmann; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gatterer, Gehrer, Grabner, Gradwelt, Großruck, Guggenberger; Hagenhofer, Haidlmayr, Heindl, Hlavac, Höchtl, Horngacher, Hostash, Huber, Hums; hunters; Kaipel, Kaufler, Khol, Kier, Kiermaier, Kiss, Climate, Konrad, Head, Koppler, Kostelka, Krammer, Herbs, Kröll, Kukacka, Kummer, Kurzbauer; Lacner, leikam, leiner, Luke; Maderthaner, Maitz, Marizzi, Mertel, Mock, Molterer, Moser Hans Helmut, Moser Sonja, Motter, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neisser, Neugebauer, Niederwieser, Novotny, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, Ollinger, Onodi; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Peter, Platter, Posch, Puttinger; Rada, Rasinger, Rauch-Kallat, Reitsmer, Riepl; Sauer, Schaffenrath, Schieder, Schlögl, Schmidt, Schohlen, Schrefel, Schüster, Schüster, Schwarzböck, Schwarzenberg, Schwimmer, Schwimmer, Seidinger, Sigl, Silhavy, Steibl, Steindl, Stoisits, Stummful; Tegischer, Tichy-Schreiter, Drinkl, Tychtl; Van der Bellen, Verzetznitsch, Vrannitzky; Wallner, Wimmer, Worm, Wormitzer.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8760	We are now continuing in the voting series. - Please take the seats! I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the indirect promotion of risk capital. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the introduction of the Luxembourg model. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – That too is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Rossmann and Mr Comrades on the abolition of the excise duty on beverages. If you agree to this request, I would ask for a sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the reduction in VAT rates. Whoever agrees to this request, I ask for the sign to be given. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Vergestnitsch, Mr Schüssel and Mr Comrades on employment policy initiatives. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted by a majority. (E1.) Continue the debate on the declarations the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8857	Since the urgent request of the Green Group, as is already known, has been withdrawn, I will now resume the debate on the statements made by the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. I don't have a word message anymore. I therefore conclude the debate. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-30-020-XX-NRSITZ-00004_d7e8884	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed have received applications 25/A to 38/A (E). Question No 14/J to 42/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Wednesday, 31. January 1996, 11 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting is closed.
