ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e1937	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to take the places so that we can start the meeting of the National Council as soon as possible. In this sense I open the 5th. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies of Voggenhuber, Dr Bartenstein, Leitner, Mag. Barmüller and Dr. Hazelsteiner. Outcome of the Presidential Conference
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e1971	I informed you, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday evening about the outcome of the presidential meeting and I announced that we will hold another session today before the beginning of the plenary session. This has also taken place. At this meeting, a letter of reply from Mr Pühringer – to our requests yesterday or to our recommendations – was brought to the attention of Mr Pühringer. The head of state told us the following: "I refer to your letter from 30. Mr President, ladies, who came to me by fax, and tell you that the demands of the National Council's Presidential Conference... are fully taken into account. Our efforts now focus on the following measures: Firstly, legal clarification, second: Identification of the bones found, third: Localization of the site. Mr National Council President, I will inform you, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Minister of the Interior in every step in detail." We believe that our request, at least in the grave field, to have a construction stop, is to be understood in that sense, that it is absolutely assured that all the measures to be taken in this context will not be affected and that the site will really be safeguarded in a comprehensive sense until everything is discussed or secured. – In this sense, we will remain in contact with the head of state. We also intend to request a report from the Federal Minister for the Interior today during the plenary session. We want to listen to this report in the afternoon, either after the end of the agenda, but not after 4 p.m., so that there will be this report by the Minister of the Interior, which will be followed by opinions from all the political groups, by no later than 4 p.m. With this in mind, the Group of the Party of European Socialists has withdrawn its request for a current hour at the beginning of this sitting, so that we can go into the agenda at the same time. There has been no urgent request, and there is no intention to do so in the present state of affairs. – That on this issue. Today, too, the summaries of the deliberations in the presidential session were unanimous and unanimous. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2019	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall now continue to speak, stating that the Federal Chancellor has made a statement on the representation of members of the Federal Government as follows: Federal Minister for the Environment Dr. Martin Bartenstein will be present at today's meeting by Federal Minister Mag. Molterer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2046	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2277	In addition, before entering the agenda, I would like to say that Mrs Dr Schmidt has requested that the Committee on Justice report on the application 11/A for a deadline until 31. In the case of the United Kingdom, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities. In addition, the request made by five Members pursuant to Article 43 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on this request for deadlines. . On the date of this debate, after consultation with members of the applicant group, I will be able to communicate it in order to coordinate it accordingly with the previous report of the Minister of the Interior. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2303	On the agenda itself, it is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 and points 5 and 6 of today's agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2327	We're going into the agenda, and I'm going to tell you: The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the nature and implementation of the debate. Thus, in each debate, a maximum of three speakers per club can speak at a speaking time of 10 minutes each, with one speaker of each group still having a speaking time of 20 minutes. As far as the proposal on which the House is concerned is concerned. On the other hand, are there any objections? - That's not the case. This proposal is then adopted unanimously. 1. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (18 of the Supplements): European Election Order – EuWO (28 of Supplements) 2. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (19 of the Supplements): European Electoral Evidence Act – EUWEG (29 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2374	We come to points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. The debate on this is being held under one. These are: Reports of the Constitutional Committee on Government Templates: European Election Order and European Elections Act. The rapporteur on both points is Mrs Dr Mertel. She has the floor, and I ask her to initiate the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2395	Mr President. High house! I report on 28 and 29 of the supplements. Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template: Federal Law on the Election of Members to be sent from Austria to the European Parliament (European Election Order). In accordance with Council Directive 93/109/EC of 6 June 1998 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes, and in particular Article 3(3) thereof, In December 1993 the European Parliament (Electoral of Europe) was elected by the European Parliament, which is governed by certain principles. Its structure is based on the current European electoral order of the current National Council. The Constitutional Committee has the opposing government template at its meeting on 26 May. Negotiating in January 1996. In this context, it should be noted that the Constitutional Committee assumes that the Members of the European Parliament are required, in accordance with Article 2(2). 3 of the Law on Club Financing, of course, includes all the members of the European Parliament, which can be attributed to a club pursuant to § 1, regardless of whether they are Members who are also members of the National Council or the Federal Council, or those who have been elected without a legislative body of the Federal Government. Two amendments or additional amendments were tabled by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Karl Donabauer. In addition, additional proposals were submitted by Dr Kostelka, Karl Donabauer, Dr. Frischenschlager and Johannes Voggenhuberzwei. At the time of the vote, the draft law contained in the Government template was adopted by majority, taking into account the amendments referred to above, in the version of the Committee's written report. Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template: Federal Law on the Management of Permanent Evidence of Electoral and Voters in Elections to the European Parliament. In accordance with Council Directive 93/109/EC of 6 June 1998 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and to the laws of the Member States relating to the Member States relating to turnover taxes on agricultural products, the Commission shall adopt a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, In addition to Austrians, other EU citizens with their head office in Austria must be included; moreover, Austrians must be registered. The draft provides for the establishment of a central European electorate to carry out the exchange of information with other Member States. The Constitutional Committee has the opposing government template at its meeting on 26 May. Negotiating in January 1996. Two amendments or additional amendments were tabled by Dr Peter Kostelkaund Karl Donabauer. At the time of the vote, the draft law contained in the Government template was adopted by majority, taking into account the amendments referred to above, in the version of the Committee's written report. As a result of its deliberations, the Constitutional Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft laws attached to written reports. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would like to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2474	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement. For the debate, a speaking time of 10 minutes per speaker was set, with a speaker of each club still having a speaking time of 20 minutes. A maximum of three speakers are speaking per club. Before I speak to the first speaker, Mr deputies. I would like to say the following: The request of the Liberal Forum for a short debate on the request for a deadline should be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in such a way that this debate takes place at 4 p.m. at the latest. However, since we have agreed that the Federal Minister for the Interior will make a statement at 4 p.m. at the latest, there is now a consensus that the statement of the Minister of the Interior will take place first, then the statements of speech and the debate on the request for deadlines. – Please take note. Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I'll give it to him. – Speaking time: a maximum of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2504	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The two existing legislative instruments relating to the European electoral system and to the European election law would have been desirable by the Austrians at an earlier date. After the EU referendum in June 1994 and after Austria's accession to the European Union, almost one and a half years have passed, but Austria's arrangements for the election of the European Parliamentarians have finally come to the discussion here in the House. We Liberals will vote in favour of both of the main areas of law, but it should also be said here at the same time that we cannot give the undivided consent to Articles IV and V, which were only filed at the Committee meeting a week ago, in the present form. We therefore call for separate vote, because we do agree with § 2a para. 3 in the present form, but this will not be the case for other projects – I refer to Article IV or V of the European Election Order in this context. Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, this draft law is situated in the Constitutional Committee for more than one legislative period and has not been completed there, on the other hand. However, there have been massive changes at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee last week. . However, we liberals can now say yes to the European Electoral Evidence Act as far as possible. The criminal provisions we have mounted have actually been taken into account in the Committee, so that it is true that those who, for a second time, have a chance to choose the European Parliament or want to do so will be subject to these sanctions. And that is enough reason for us Freemans to be able to give our consent to the European Electoral Evidence Act in much of our parts. However, I would like to say here that the legal instruments in this House are not exactly happy with us. Austria has, as the Federal Government has repeatedly stressed, joined as a voluntary neutral country of the European Union, but it is also clear to all of us that Austria, as a country with federalist structures, has entered the European Union with this federal constitution. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to draw attention to the findings of the Austrian Constitutional Court: As far as the federal states of Carinthia and Burgenland reached, there was an opposition from the Constitutional Court as regards their national legislation for the country elections at the time; the constituencies in both federal states were abolished by the Constitutional Court as unconstitutional. However, in the present European electoral system, only one constituency is foreseen for Austria as a whole. In this context, we liberals would have been able to imagine a corresponding division into constituencies – which would have been possible in accordance with Europe – so that a first and second investigation procedure could also be introduced for this European election. – However, there has been a different approach: The decision of the Constitutional Committee of last Friday thus provides for an electoral group in Austria to be given the 21 mandates to the European Parliament. We liberties fear that, as a result of their representation in the European Parliament, the poorer federal states will grow disadvantages, and we also believe that this does not correspond to the basic intensities of the Austrian Parliament in recent years, namely to bind citizens more closely to parliamentarians and thus to achieve a better relationship between parliamentarians and voters. My colleague, fresheners! I see you smile slightly behind your hand. It is certainly true that, in the case of some 220 000 to 230 000 votes per mandate, depending on the voter participation, such close ties as with the national election mandates, where only one tenth of them are necessary for a mandate, are not possible. We know, Mr Freshenschlager, that the overall acceptance of the European Parliament and the acceptance of the Austrians for the EU will in future depend very much on the European Parliament, the European Parliamentarians and the work of the European Parliamentarians in Europe for Austria. We liberals therefore believe that the opportunity – although not a huge or a great chance, but at least a chance – to achieve a stronger link between European parliamentarians and their voters in Austria has not been used. We also believe that the number of Members whose signature is necessary for a candidate – at least as far as the European Parliamentarians are concerned – is too small for the signature of a European Parliamentary in order to be able to candidate. The original legislative text of the Federal Government had provided for five delegates to the National Council and two European Parliamentarians. We believe – the fragmentation in some other European countries, which is due to too little access to the European elections, shows that – even for Austria – despite the 4-percent clause contained in this draft law – a majority of voters vote in favour of small parties who do not overcome the 4-percent rule, but who, in a two-track procedure, namely in constituencies and a second investigation procedure, have quite the chance to obtain mandates. And the opinion of these voters will not be represented at all. A failure to find the opinion of a significant number of Austrian electorate, who have been elected, in the MEPs of the European Parliament would lead to great dissatisfaction per futuro, thus increasing the scepticism of the democratic deficits of the European Union and of the European Parliament, which are being mounted everywhere. We therefore believe that the text of this law, as it is to be adopted today, is not the final conclusion of wisdom. Today, we will give him our approval in large parts, but in some parts we will refuse to give him our consent. We believe that what was added to this text in Articles IV and V in the last minute is certainly not enough to be adopted in this way. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is – clearly and clearly – about the promotion of the parties on the one hand and the financing of clubs on the other. We believe that from a constitutional point of view, both of these provisions, as they are contained here, have some difficulties and problems. I say it quite openly here: Also because of the dispute whether the Freedom Party should be reimbursed for the election costs for the 1995 National Council elections or not, we have not only dealt with the present legislative matter in detail, but also in high-ranking constitutional expertise – for example by university professor Winkler and others – we have been able to explain the situation of the legislative text in the present form and the effects per futuro. According to well-known constitutional lawyers, after the last national elections, none of the parliamentary parties introduced the request for party support at the constitutional right time: three parties too early and one party too late, but still got the money; the liberals either at the right time, but not at the right time, or later, with a re-establishment request in the original rights, at least later. This dispute will probably have to be resolved by Austrian courts. From a liberal point of view, an important point of financial resource supply for the parties is ineligible, which should be fixed as soon as possible. We therefore believe that this text of law, as it appears in Articles IV and V here, should be better referred back to the Committee and subject to a constitutional revision there than today in Parliament has been legally adopted and then, in constitutional court complaints, it should be re-established and reformed and recast. The concerns we have on the other hand are serious; they are serious for all political parties as a whole, since, indeed, we all know, without adequate financial resources, the political activities can neither be fulfilled at European level nor at national level. Indeed, there can be significant distortions in competition and in the course of the elections among the various political groups in the event of unclear legal situations. We consider this to be a matter of concern to democracy and believe that it would have been better – since we have been "breading" this text for a year and a half in vain to express it in this way – to spend one day or another in a subcommittee to adopt Articles IV and V in a version which is legally secure and which keeps such disputes to the detriment of democracy, but also to the detriment of all parliamentary parties in the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, we are satisfied with the fact that at least in one point our concerns have been taken into account, namely in § 2a para. 3. which now provides that those funds, for which the political groups have not applied for a refund, are no longer allocated to the remaining fractions on aliquote parts as in 1990, but actually remain where they want to have the relinquishing party, namely, in the State Sackel, in the Federal Budget – there it has paid Austrian citizens for appropriate funding on the basis of the legal basis; it can now rely on the use of these funds for its interests. It is therefore only consistent that the liberals will demand separate votes for Article IV. In Article IV, we become item 1 § 2a para. 3 in this form give our consent. However, the other points of Article IV and Article V will not be approved for the reasons I have mentioned. The fact that the official poll will now go back to writing the campaigning parties to one another, as in the past, and not as in the last National Council elections, on broad posters, is what we consider to be good, although we know that the Austrians have also managed the last elections perfectly. These formalisms should not be so highlighted. It should also be mentioned that access for individual Members by preferred votes is now quite better regulated than in the original German Federal Government text. However, I would like to add the following: I would have liked us to have found an access clause on the basis of the votes needed for a fundamental mandate and not on the basis of the votes given for the respective general party. For example, the last National Council elections in 1994 would have meant: On the basis of the votes of the 1994 Liberal Forum for the National Council, he would have been granted a European Parliamentary, and because of the current 7 percent clause, 19 000 votes would have allowed a pre-arrangement on the list. On the other hand, for the Social Democrats, this would have meant that a candidate or a candidate wishing to be led would have needed about 208,000 votes, i.e. almost 10,000 to 20,000 votes less than from today's point of view, a European Parliament mandate as a whole. I therefore believe that this distortion in access, in line with the dependence on the size of the political groups is not quite transparent. In the event of an action under the principle of equality, this provision shall not be held in the form. I believe that there is a germ in it for us to have a constitutional review of this part of the European electoral system at some point in time on controversial points; for example, if someone with 25,000 or 28,000 votes is not prepared for a large party, while someone with a smaller party is given 19 000 or 20 000 votes and thus assigned a European Parliament seat. We should therefore not be completely happy with what the Committee has provided us in this form. In some respects, the concerns we have expressed about the liberals are still true. We live in a rule of law. What is not taken into account here in Parliament can then be brought into the Constitutional Court in the appropriate form and revitalized there. However, I still think it is a mistake of beauty that we must proceed here in this form and not, in a consensual form of opinion of all five parliamentary parties, come to a legislative text on the rules of democracy which is indisputable, and which therefore does not bring into question the flaw of two or three constitutional complaints even at the time of entry into law. For the first European elections, the corresponding electorate revisions must be re-established. The fact that our old desire – this is also an old desire of the Auslandsösterreicher – to include the Austrians as a kind of tenth federal state in their own evidence and thus the Austrian electorate living abroad, who are interested in enabling pro futuro to have easier, unbureaucratic access to the electorate, could not be adopted with this legislative matter, is also mentioned in passing. We liberties would have wished us that negotiations and decision-making would have taken place faster, but more thoroughly and in a subcommittee where we would have discussed the concerns, with the competent support of constitutional lawyers who have the confidence of all five parties, for a longer time, in order to produce a legislative text which would be more indisputable than the current text of the law for both materials. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also believe that we have missed a great opportunity for democracy policy. We know that after the first EU euphoria, many of the things that have gone for Europe have been lost in our state. There have been many concerns, because what is to be seen as promises of the first hour only occurs with delays and the impatience of the citizens while waiting for them to grow when the promised improvements also reach them, their budgets and their budget management. I therefore believe that we would have been well advised if we had created such an important law, which lays down the basic rules of the democratic order of the game, the selection of the European Parliamentarians for Austria who have our interests, with more care than it contains in today's legislative text from a liberal point of view. This would have allowed us to reduce many resentments, and we could have achieved many awareness-raising measures which have been called for here in the House for many areas of our state and economic policy over the last 24 hours. Much more important and much more urgent, however, are actions in the core of our democracy, so that the confidence of the citizen in the rules of our democracy and in the implementation, in the selection of citizens' representatives in national, regional and international parliaments is preserved. This should have been clearly more democratic than is the case with the present legislative text. We will therefore refuse our approval of important parts of this law and hope that this Parliament will once again adopt a better European electoral order than it is today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2652	The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2673	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The decision-making on the European electoral system and the European Elections Act will create the legal basis for the elections to the European Parliament this year. As is known, the direct election of parliamentarians must take place within two years of accession to the European Union. Further elections will take place at about the same time on the European Parliament's decision in all Member States. Before I deal with the issue of the importance of the European Parliament, I would like to focus briefly on the arguments put forward by my colleague, Mr President. He referred to the issue of the single electoral body. I would like to point out that we have already stated in the Federal Constitutional Act that Austria should be a single electoral body and therefore fully corresponds to the presentation of this constitutional basis which is now being introduced. This is also in line with the relevant directives of the European Union and is therefore undoubtedly correct by law. However, I would also like to mention that this is, in my opinion, a choice in which the overall Austrian character is to be borne more strongly, and I therefore feel that it makes sense for all of Austria to be a single electoral body. I don't think that the federal states would be any worse represented. It is up to the parties to draw up the lists to ensure a regionally balanced list. Most of the federal states are too small to be elected directly by a parliamentarian if a federal government is a constituency. I therefore think that the procedure adopted is not only legally correct, but also appropriate. On the question of the promotion of parties and on the fact that the FPÖ has failed to comply with the deadlines, I would just like to say that compliance with deadlines should be a matter of course. We expect every citizen, every guest worker, from anyone who wants to exercise rights in Austria, to comply with the deadlines, and if he does not, he will lose these rights. There is an opinion of the Constitutional Service, but also two opinions of independent professors, who clearly state that the Federal Chancellor's Office's operation was correct. However, I would like to return to the election of the European Parliamentarians. The constituency of voters is quite complicated. It is known that all EU citizens are allowed to take part in the election, who are headquartered in Austria and are not registered elsewhere in the electorate. The authorities will therefore need several months to prepare for this election. The decision-making process at the beginning of this year ensures that all deadlines can be actually observed. Ladies and gentlemen! This choice requires not only extensive legal and organisational preparations, but also political ones. It is important to raise awareness of the importance of the European Parliament and thus the importance of these elections. The European Parliament was originally designed only as a consultative assembly. It was not until the direct elections, which took place for the first time in 1979, that Parliament was able to gain in importance. Since then, it has gradually been fighting for more rights in the control process, but also in the EU's legislative process. Finally, by means of the Maastricht Treaties, Parliament has received a significant increase in rights which it tries to defend and expand in the tough fight. As a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the European Parliament, I have been able to follow very closely last year that the question of whether the rights to which Parliament is entitled are actually respected and respected by all the other institutions. It has already happened several times that the European Parliament has quoted the Council before the European Court of Justice and has maintained it there. This enabled it to enforce its rights and extend its scope, but also tried to expand its possibilities. There is, however, an opposite movement, which is being tried to push back Parliament's rights. A more and more self-confident Parliament is sometimes seen by other institutions as a nuisance of critics and delayers. It is true, however, that Parliament is far more committed than other institutions to representing the wishes and interests of citizens. This is always evident in votes, for example, on consumer or environmental issues, where Parliament is very careful about the interests of citizens. The fact that only 35 per cent of Austrians believe that the European Parliament represents their interests is unfortunate and requires correction. I have taken this figure from a detailed opinion poll published by Directorate-General X of the European Commission in October 1995. The results are very interesting – although disappointing in some ways – and certainly a mission for us to become more involved and to discuss more publicly issues of integration, issues of democracy in the European Union and issues relating to the tasks and objectives of integration. In Austria, 48 percent of respondents are satisfied with the state of democracy in the EU. This corresponds to the EU average. The Austrians also attach great importance to the reform of the EU institutions for the lives of citizens – 71 percent. This is, I believe, also a task for the Intergovernmental Conference to represent the concerns of democratisation and to ensure that their functioning is ensured in a larger, enlarged EU. However, only 31 percent of Austrians – which is exactly 10 percentage points below the EU average – have confidence in the European Parliament. 57 percent believe that the European Parliament plays an important role. Only 32 per cent of Austrians believe that the European Parliament should play an important role. While the EU averages 51 per cent, i.e. the absolute majority of the population, believe that the European Parliament as a legislative body should be treated as the Council of Ministers, in Austria it is only 43 per cent. – I think that’s a point where we have to go. On the basis of my experience, I believe that it is very urgent to strengthen Parliament's rights in relation to EU legislation and to obtain a right of co-decision on all issues, not only in the few in which Parliament is now responsible. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have a lot of information to do. This is not only the task of the European Parliamentarians, but also of the parties and all the political forces in our country. It is important to clarify the way in which it is shortened and the problem is not fully recognized, and to give concrete examples of how Parliament represents citizens' interests in the EU and that it is therefore important to strengthen Parliament as a whole. Work in the EU Parliament is very laborious and long-lasting and therefore not always easy to mediate. It requires very many steps in a long discussion process, not least because of the need for parliamentarians from 15 Member States to work together with very different political attitudes. However, there are successes that we need to put more emphasis on – in particular, the EU Parliamentarians. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What does this have to do with the electoral order?]] This is about the question of patenting genetic inventions and research, where Parliament has clearly stated that it will not agree to this, to the priority of public transport. There are, therefore, a number of questions where Members of Parliament decide in a friendly way and force the other institutions to do the same. A problem with the EU's acceptance is certainly that it is seen by many as an oversized bureaucratic organization representing the economic interests of large corporations, but not those of citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What does this have to do with the electoral order?]] The "citizens' Europe" must not be just a keyword. In fact, there are a lot of problems to solve. The issues of employment, social security and the environment are the most pressing. At the same time, the issues that can only be dealt with successfully at international level in the medium term are the issues. These issues are being updated on a regular basis by the European Parliament. All Parliament's opinions on the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference – which will start soon – include demands for the commitment of social, environmental and employment decisions to a European employment programme. In order to give weight to these demands of the European Parliament, it is necessary that the citizens themselves give weight to Parliament. This is most evident through a correspondingly high turnout. The vote was very different in the last election, in 1994 in the twelve Member States. While at 100 percent in Luxembourg and 90 percent in Belgium, almost 75 percent in Italy and 71% in Greece, in Great Britain, the Netherlands and Portugal, they did not even vote for 40 percent of the eligible persons. A high level of participation makes clear the importance which the people of the election and hence of Parliament attach to it. Few electoral participations help the forces opposed to a strong Parliament. It is therefore important that everyone who is interested in democratising the European Union work to clarify the importance of this choice to the people. In the longer term, only a European Union that can solve people's problems and has fully developed democratic structures has a chance of survival. Only then can it fascinate the people who stimulate political imagination, and only then will it be flexible enough to solve the questions of the future. In this sense, I think it is all our task to inform the people of the importance of the elections and of the European Parliament, and I hope that the people will have a high share in this election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2729	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2751	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Accession to the European Union was certainly a very critical issue for all of us, which the various stakeholders have been dealing with for weeks and months. They have tried to bring citizens closer to the advantages and disadvantages of accession or non-accession. Not only was the geopolitical situation an essential point in the decision-making process, but it was also important to recognize that, because of the cultural, political, security and economic considerations, we had to support membership of the European Union. Accession to the European Union by 1. We had a great deal of effort in January 1995. There is no doubt that we have had to make strong changes. Nevertheless, I believe that today we can well see that the beginning as such has been successful and that we are on track. In particular, the discussions of yesterday's meeting clearly showed that accession to the European Union was a very important measure for us, since we were particularly concerned yesterday with employment policy. I think that we rarely discuss the following questions: What if we hadn't joined? What would our economy look like, what disadvantages would we have to buy? – It’s too cheap to say that alone doesn’t bring us any further. I think we need to see this decision as a comprehensive and State-political simply necessary measure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Without a doubt, non-accession would have brought us greater strains. A decoupling of Europe would certainly mean unimaginable disadvantages for us. But not only in the economic field, but above all in the security field, we are facing major challenges today, because all the achievements – wherever we have worked out, achieved or fought – are only to be kept if the relevant security policy conditions are given. It is precisely our country that has a huge risk due to its geopolitical situation and therefore it is absolutely necessary to protect the European Community. A central question in our accession discussions was, of course, economic policy, and not least. We heard yesterday from the speakers of the social partners that it is especially important that our economy can not only claim nationally, but also internationally. The President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce has said that our economy needs an active, offensive economic and employment policy. It is therefore imperative to take advantage of the benefits of a Member State, which, of course, also has obligations towards the Union, and to cooperate and participate in the decision-making processes of the European Union. Austria has a very competent man in its representation in Brussels with Commissioner Fischler. It is precisely the administration of this difficult place of business – it is certainly doing a good job – that brings our country the same reputation. Our members in the European Court of Justice have proved themselves to this day and are a sign for our country. We can play an open role in the legal process and in the case law – this is very important. We are currently in the preparations for the Intergovernmental Conference, which will take place this year and in which we will be involved in the further strengthening of the Union. The Austrian delegation to the European Parliament has been since 1. January 1995 by the sending of 21 representatives from the National Councils and the Federal Councils. This can be seen as a transitional measure. Detailed preliminary work has been carried out on the government documents on the European Elections and European Elections Act submitted to the National Council for consultation and decision-making today. President-in-Office of the Council has already indicated that there have been heated discussions in the Committee. I was in the Committee's deliberations from the beginning to the end, and I cannot remember them. I think we have discussed very objectively and openly and have tried to create optimum conditions for this European election to be carried out well. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] It is gratifying – although criticism has been practiced that it has been presented too late – that we are at the beginning of the XX. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. The special feature of this EU electoral system is not the fact that we will be represented with 21 mandates in Brussels or Strasbourg, but that we will have an electorate, a federal elected body. I believe that it was correct and important in relation to this election that we agreed and found ourselves on it. I don't think it's like anything else would have been better here. Remember the following: In the distribution of 21 mandates – if they had been carried out at the federal or federal level – there would have been whole regions that would not have received a basic mandate. That is why I ask you: What argument would you have made? – It is therefore important and right that we have held the federal electorate for these elections. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] A wide-ranging discussion has been held on the electoral proposal. The fact that 2 600 signatures of citizens can be put in a vote proposal was undisputed. The next proposal was that by five parliamentarians belonging to the Austrian National Council, or by two EU Parliamentarians, an election proposal would have been tabled as such. We were of the opinion that this is not necessary, and we have largely agreed on the fact that we find absolutely the outcome with 2 600 signatures or with the proposal of three parliamentarians or an EU Parliamentary. I personally have no problems with it, nor do I believe that it would create political instability as such. I think this statement is unnecessary and I believe that we have made a right decision here, which we are presenting to Parliament today. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] As far as the 4-percent clause is concerned, it is so that, after today's consideration, it does not have the effect we expect. We know that a mandate requires at least 4.78% of the valid votes cast. Nevertheless, although we were not very convinced, we agreed on this, because we thought we wanted to create a law today, which will work tomorrow and later. We can't know what kind of situation we're going to get into. That is why, for reasons of homogeneity, we have also approved this proposal. We also thought that it would be good for the citizen to know that there is a minimum voting clause for all electoral orders and all electoral systems. In this case, it has been maintained and consensus has been reached. In addition, there was a discussion on preferred votes. We have insisted that this European electoral system needs a preferred voting mechanism, and we believe that it must be practical and applicable. We have in the National Council election the sixth part solution, i.e. a candidate must unite 16.6 percent of the valid votes cast in one constituency in order to achieve his prestituency. After difficult, in-depth negotiations and good convictions, we succeeded in agreeing on the European electoral order to 7 percent of the total vote. We consider this to be very necessary for two reasons: firstly, because it is highly equivalent to the right to vote for personality, and secondly because we know from experience from other countries that participation in the European elections is often not very strong – and we want to achieve greater participation by giving the citizen the incentive to support his candidate or his candidate in the election itself. We may thus create a more lively democracy. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] An amendment to the electoral day will be tabled today. On this point there was a discussion of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, the Greens, the Liberal Forum with the F Party. Finally, we thought it was right that the Federal Government should set the electoral day in agreement with the Parliament's main committee. The F movement wanted Parliament to be involved. One could then find this solution with the Federal Government, and I can already announce today that the amendment as an election day is the 13th. It is planned for October. I am glad that we can now also present this measure in a timely manner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A topic of the discussion was also the multiple entry into the electoral directory. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is a danger that a citizen could be registered several times if he does not carefully comply with his reporting obligation. I believe, however, that this challenge is not just given to the citizen, but that, above all, the communities are highly obliged to carry out appropriate data maintenance in order to avoid double entry from the outset. If, for certain reasons, a person wants to achieve a double entry or perhaps fight or disappear, he has to expect his act to be done with a severe punishment. It was my wish that we could create an optimal condition for the European elections to be properly conducted in Austria, so that we could represent ourselves in Brussels as a country strong and closed, participate in European parliamentarism and also bring in our interests there, which was also a subject in the accession debate; where many meant that it would have no meaning for Austria to be a small, dear country, but would have nothing to do with Europe anyway. I believe that we Austrians with 21 mandates, if they carry out their duties comprehensively, can very well represent our interests not only but also implement them. We want to cooperate in a strong Europe, in a Europe of the regions, but it can implement its strength in world policy and also in the world economy at any time. As regards election costs, which have already been discussed here today, I do not think we should say anything special, except that we have done these things in an analogous way to the National Council's electoral system, with one condition: that we want to save 10 percent in the interests of the state budget, so that we can meet the political objectives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In any case, we will agree to these two government proposals with the amendments. I believe that we also play an important role as a small country in large Europe. We have made a good decision for our country in this matter, so that we will have a good development in this beautiful country of Austria in the coming years and decades.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2911	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Freshener. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e2932	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It was a damn long time for the Austrian Parliament or, better to say, the government parties to establish the legal basis for the election to the European Parliament in Austria. Now it's finally ready. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Good thing needs a while, says an old saying!]] Yes, but, Mr Schwarzenberger, the problem is the following: I still remember the EU referendum. That's what it said: Yes, of course, we will resolve the lack of democracy policy that does not represent us directly elected to the European Parliament very, very soon. It has been said that at the beginning of 1995 or in the spring of 1995 one will vote. Then the talk was from autumn 1995 and later from spring 1996. Today we hear – Mr Donabauer has just said it – we will be on 13 March. Select October. So, as I have said, it has taken a long time, and that is why it is so strange, because it is actually in the matter itself, one does not see any huge differences between the comments made by my colleague, Mr Head, who has found some hair in the soup, on the broad lines of this right to vote and the European Parliament. That is why I do not at all see why this has taken so long. But I suspect that there is a reason behind it, which belongs to it. I think it was basically afraid of early European elections in Austria, because then perhaps the whole negative propaganda or the misguided propaganda in the course of the referendum would have effected too soon. I just remember what was sold of cheap, populist "success" – under quotation marks – of an EU accession, such as the famous 1,000 s savings for a household. Of course, all of these things are not very funny if they are then to be represented in a European election. At the time, the government parties made the mistake, not of the political dimension of European integration, of this immensely important combination of political unity with the aim of solving upcoming problems, but rather of operating with cheap, populist things, for example, by saying that people will find the benefits in their books. That's the reason: You were afraid of these elections, so you delayed them and said: If we do not make an electoral law now, then perhaps political pressure will come, and we must actually carry out the elections! – I think that was the real reason why you waited so long. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Second point: It is, of course, the case that these European elections should not take place in a, so to speak, bilateral political climate. I believe that in Austria there is still a little misunderstanding, there is the European Union with a lot of bureaucracy, and this has enormous political power, where the little one is not able to do anything, and on the other hand, there is little Austria. In our political dimension, we lack the self-understanding that we are a member and can therefore participate and that we are also co-responsible. Above all, however, we in Austria lack the insight that there is no alternative – not even a small one – to European integration at all. This is the problem: that the whole thing is still in a bilateral climate: here we, the Austrians – and here we see whether or not the benefit comes to us or not – and to the European Union. I think the election to the European Parliament has been and would have been the opportunity to make it clear to the Austrians that we are in Europe, that we can make politics there, as well as as as a small country, that we are involved and that we also bear responsibility. These would have been the crucial points that we could have brought to the citizen in an early election campaign to the European Parliament. But to do that, you have unfortunately missed out on it! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the right to vote, to the real issue. I also think it is extremely important that we seek a Europe of citizens, but also a Europe of parliamentary democracy. I know that there is a reservation that the European Union is somewhat more bureaucratic, because it is a highly qualified, but often highly-needed, technocratic, bureaucratic elite at work. [[Abg. Moser: Eurocrats!]] Then there is the idea – this is also carried very strongly by the media – there are a few large, strong European men who are already doing all of this: the German Federal Chancellor, the French Prime Minister and the President, but the other, which is still happening in Europe, would actually not have a lot of space. I believe that it is crucial to the acceptance of European integration that we should bring the EU institutions into line with democratic and parliamentary minimum standards. This is also one of the most important points to be taken into account in relation to the right to vote in Europe. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Firstly, we believe that there is no reasonable political alternative to European integration. That is why we are in favour. Secondly, We are in favour of a democratic and a parliamentary Europe. This is not to be achieved from today to tomorrow, but the history of the European Parliament shows very clearly that, after very, very modest beginnings, it has become a certain power factor. Now to the specific right to vote. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of criticisms that are worth responding to. I agree with him that the basic rules of democratic consensus are particularly appropriate in terms of voting rights. [[Abg. May. Main: That's right!]] I'll give you the right thing. That's an important thing! I mean – and this also covers our criticism – that we could have been able to use the last year to deal more closely with things, but I believe that what is now is actually acceptable, which is why we will also support it. First: The principle of proportionality is maintained and is also respected. The d’Hondtsche system is acceptable in 21 mandates in this form, and with 4.7 to 4.8 percent, there is a claim to representativeness of a political group. Secondly, In this context, the 4-percent clause is probably more one, I would not say, superfluous thing, but a fulfillment of this principle of proportionality. Only in the event of extreme severing can this become effective. It's inside, even if it doesn't use much, it doesn't hurt anything. I like a right-wing homogeneity. The fact that 4 per cent are also written for the right to vote in Europe is in itself a signal of proportionality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] I think so. Perhaps your party will again get into the situation that it is very happy when there is proportionality. [[Abg. Haigermoser:... your past...!]] You're doing your past deal. I've got mine. This is not for the debate now. [[Abg. Haigermoser: That won't do any more!]] Yeah, not you! [[Further calls of the Abg. Haigermoser.]] What's wrong with him? [[Abg. Haigermoser: Are you sorry?]] I'm speaking and you're not, so keep your mouth shut, and I'm allowed to talk. Let's do it that way! One of the main criticisms of Mr Hoof was that Austria is a single constituency. It is quite possible to debate this. I just think that we must also be clear about the role of a European Parliamentary. He is, first and foremost, representative of this state, of the Republic as a whole. [[Abg. May. Main: Federalist Republic!]] Also federalist Republic. But I think that there would be a lot to mention in terms of fundingism in this context. If I imagine that we have now brought it to eight national messages in Brussels, I believe that there is no risk that there will be too little consideration for regional interests in Austria. On the contrary! I believe that this cantonist is too much of a good thing, especially with regard to these strange messages from the countries at Brussels level. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: These are real tax-money-destruction machines!]] So I am not very afraid that federalism is going down there, but I believe that this is also the responsibility of the voters, because if there is a fear that the candidates of a party will concentrate in a region, then the voters will notice it and draw the consequences from it. I would rather rely on the voter's judgment and believe that the basic idea of the representation of the entire Republic in the European Parliament has to be the priority. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is no contradiction!]] My colleague, Mr President, has also raised the question of the reimbursement of the election fee and the financing of the parliamentary club. I also respect and maintain that there is a commitment by him to the fact that elections as the centre of political will-building are not private matters, but are public matters, and it is therefore perfectly in order when there is a command of economy that State resources are used for them. I also believe that the path that is going to take is correct and is pointing in the right direction when we have made it clear that we have not now taken over the election cost reimbursement of the National Council 1 : 1 but, from the point of view of the need to save, have taken a reduction in the corresponding approaches. This is also a signal to the citizen who is already superfluous in election battles. So it makes sense for such a reduction. But it's also useful... [[Abg. May. Main: I called that positive!]] I also recorded your basic position positively at the beginning. However, I also believe that it should not be ignored that the Austrian Parliament has achieved a great deal of competence and work through EU policy, and that it is therefore right that the parliamentary clubs should be given additional resources for the management of the work mountain, as a result of the European Union. In my opinion, these are still modest, but they must be economical. I think this is correct, and it is important that Parliament is in competition with the countries which have already settled in Brussels, to the social partners already in the Brussels mission, which was the very first legislative act: that the funding of the social partners' representatives in the mission has been ensured at all; [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There you have to save!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A lot of money can be saved there!]] Mr Vergestnich, that was the first Europe agreement of the current two government parties, it was a very important point that not the chambers which are not the poorest could possibly be replaced by these costs. So, if you look at all of this together, you have to say: It is quite correct and reasonable for Parliament to have a little money for dealing with this additional work for the parliamentary groups. Now a few comments on the effect: It is certainly true that by anchoring this provision a defect of the law is to be fixed. Now refer to the occasion: If a party – in this case the Freedom Party – has failed to seek the election fee from the last election campaign in good time – that you have missed the deadline is certainly your case – or if a party has not done so, then this money should not benefit the other parties in the form of a premium. From this point of view, I think, it is quite reasonable that one should decide retroactively, because basically there is no harm, and it is really not to be seen that, if support is not sought or if the application authorisation does not exist, it is distributed to the other applicants. This premium system cannot be justified, and therefore this provision is completely in order. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You could save 10 percent!]] In this case, the savings are greater, because at 150 million schillings, Count, it is 30 million schillings, which are even 20 percent, and this sum saves the Republic. That's completely correct. You've "favored" this: The 30 million schillings are not distributed to the others, but fall back home to the state bag. So that's all right. That is what we have decided now, and so it should remain. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, we believe that the two laws are in order. We will therefore agree to them. I hope that the forthcoming election debate will not be exhausted in small disputes of competence, as we experience them every day between the two government parties. We do not want these small invoices, whether the petrol will perhaps be cheaper by 10 sizes or milk by 20 sizes more expensive, but European integration must be the subject of the election campaign in the full political dimension. Of course, there will also be many controversies in the election debate, but I believe that we should not miss out on the opportunity that, through an election movement to the European Parliament, Europe's policy in the full dimension in the minds and hearts of the Austrians, through the elections to the European Parliament. This is the opportunity associated with the European elections, and I am looking forward to this debate in the interest of our country, but also in the interest of the European continent.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3180	I call Mr Oellinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3202	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, he spoke earlier about the absence of a political opportunity for democracy, and he referred to certain parts of the electoral order. I would like to give the honourable Member the right in his basic statement. There has been a lack of a democratic opportunity, but less in terms of parts of the electoral order than in terms of the time of the election itself. It has been refused to make a European election at a time when the subject of Europe was in fact still in the hearts and minds of the people. Now two years have passed, now there is frustration in the stomach of the people, now there is the experience that we have to bring Europe behind us for two years and then come to vote. A transitional scheme has become a permanent provisorium. It is a farce that has already been established twice by the National Council, but that there has still not been a choice. [[Abg. Arbitrators: But let's leave the transition by the end of the year!]] Now we decide this choice for the autumn, for the 13th. October, how to get to know in the couloirs. We're supposed to be right. We will also be this 13. ==References== [[Abg. Arbitrators: Otherwise, the double function of the Voggenhuber would not have gone on!]] We will carry this appointment. We are very glad that we are finally elected. But it's a bit late too. Two years had to go to the country until election. I would like to say one thing at the time of the election, not at the 13th. October, at the time of election: The election will take place right at the time of the European Intergovernmental Conference. These are dates for discussion of the future of Europe, decisions on institutional buildings, probably also provisions for the planned economic and monetary union and security policy in Europe. And we may have to be here in the National Council a few weeks after this European election – if we take seriously if the promises are taken seriously – actually there is also a referendum – oh yes! – when substantial parts of our constitution are affected by the future definition. [[Objection to the SPÖ]] At least that's what the then Foreign Minister Mock announced. Whether you, Mr Arbitrator, are standing up for this announcement by the Foreign Minister, is another question. But I think it is necessary to discuss this and, if we take these promises seriously, we may also have to establish a corresponding referendum on it. Now on the details of this European electoral order. Of course, there is much to mention positively, some of which are listed here. The preferred vote is certainly positive. Yes, it is positive that, as government parties, you have decided to withdraw from a preferential voting arrangement, which would, in principle, have included the original text, that it would only be preferable if one could unite the entire quota of votes which are missing from a mandate. This was a very conservative scheme that can no longer be called, at least for small parties, preferential voting rules. They are proposing a much better regulation now, and we therefore have to decide on this better regulation, which includes the 7% set-aside. But one thing I have to say: There is another definition in the European electoral order, which is simply reluctance in this form, namely the 4-percent clause, the electoral authority. These four-percent clauses, ladies and gentlemen, justify – and this is really almost rabulistic – that in practice, which seems to be very common in your opinion, it could be that several parties receive less than 4 percent, i.e. 3.9% of the votes. There is a practical example of this, which is obviously very common not only in Austria but also in other countries. Eight parties received 199 000 votes each, 3.9 percent of which amounted to about 1.6 million votes for each of these parties. After this presentation, this is more than the strongest party would receive in this example, over 1.5 million votes. The 1.5 million votes of the strongest party would have seven mandates. Through the 4-percent rule, this strongest party receives 11 mandates instead of the seven mandates, while the eight parties with 1.6 million votes do not receive a mandate. So: 1.6 million votes: no mandate; 1.572 million votes: 11 mandates. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and at the Freeman's.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you think this is a well-informed model and believe that you can justify the plausible – Mr. Arbitrators, can you justify this plausible? - Then we should be right. In our opinion, a gross mistake has been made here – apart from the fact that, as I hope, this model will never in practice concern us. For the promotion of the party a short statement from our side. Yeah, we're confessing to this party promotion. We are also committed to the retroactive entry into force of the Party Promotion Scheme. Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party! It can't be – you're certainly right with your criticism – that the other parties benefit from unclaimed support. But this has been seen by all parties, and we believe that it is sensible and correct. I therefore do not understand your further insistence on this position regarding what you believe to be illegal or problematic provisions. I think it makes sense to promote the parties, that has already been established here, and it makes sense in this form too. In summary, what is ahead of us about the European electoral system: ==References== The European elections are scheduled to take place in October. I have already mentioned this: They fall into a period when this Europe may be moving, but we do not yet know in which direction, even if no final determination has been made, because it will certainly not take place before December. This gives us an opportunity, after all, to determine the contours of our Austrian European policy, to make visible what place we want to take in this Europe. We may also be able to make clear our rights and positions in this Europe of tomorrow. We may be able to make some improvements to democracy policy. It is possible, however, that the Intergovernmental Conference will also make provisions that affect us very negatively, ladies and gentlemen. I think you all and all of us should not repeat the mistakes of the past European discussions, to promise the Austrians the blue from heaven when it comes to Europe, because there is obviously no one who has to show responsibility on this issue. I think that we should take this responsibility seriously together and, in fact, try to find some common ground on this road towards Europe – a more democratic Europe, a social Europe and an ecological Europe – that makes it worth taking advantage of this opportunity of European democratisation.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3271	The next speaker is Mr Peter Schieder. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3295	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to make cheap jokes – these would also be unfair and inappropriate – about the concerns with the 4-percent clause and the benefits of introducing 3.99 percent, as the previous speaker suggested. [[Abg. Wabl: Kiss your hand!]] I believe that the essential point is that, as has already been said by Mr Donabauer, the 4-percent clause is even lower than one-and-a-halfth of a hundred. And since we have 21 seats to give, it's already more than 4 percent you need for a seat. I know it's the question that my previous speaker raised: And how is it when it gets more seats? It could be different once! – However, the trend in the European Union in resumption and consideration of all the reforms is not that new shots, which already increases the total number of Members, will also increase percentages for each Member State, i.e. more than 21. The trend and pressure are rather heading in the direction of reducing the number of Members for each country with an increase in the total number. Austria will do well to continue to stand for 21 Members, but an increase – and only such a one could bring a conflict with the 4-percent clause, if Austria had over 25 Members – is certainly not in the EU. For the formal part: I must also make the announcements of the previous speakers come true and bring in a motion for an amendment tabled by Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol, Arbitrator and Donabauer, which includes the rules on enforcement and entry into force, but which also brings through the law the definition of the electoral day – the first election day. The further electoral days are designed in such a way that Austria chooses in accordance with the other EU Member States. I therefore propose the amendment as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also have an amendment tabled by Mr Schieder and Mr Donabauer: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is enough for formal matters, but it is also clearly stated that with the setting of the electoral day at the 13th century. A way was found with the combination of this election with the planned election of Vienna in the country of Vienna, how this election can be carried out financially gentlely and simplifyingly for the citizen this year. And this is quite timely, because we are not in arrears, as the Green speaker said, but the transitional period granted by the European Parliament and the Treaty of Austria ends on 31 December. December of this year. Until then, we're full of schedules. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mr Colleague. Is that safe? The combination?]] That's safe. Of course, the combination is only ensured if it decides the same way. The intention is certain, but since these are autonomous decisions and autonomous bodies, the law of the Vienna Landtag and the municipal council – your second question – of course falls within the law of the Viennaer Landtage, as provided for by the Federal Constitution and by the Viennaer Gemeinschaftsordnung, which is certainly to be asked by the liberal MPs in Vienna for a constitutional clarification for you. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mayor Häupl said, "Only about my body!"]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You don't want to hear that!]] – Oh, yes, I already hear it, but I want to use my speaking time for myself! I heard what Mr. Häupl said. But I'd rather listen to the heads in the version than in the version disks, and you might even understand that! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The second thing I wanted to mention here, without having a great historical look at it, is the fact that some speakers represent it as if the process of an independent European Parliament were something that would have been similar to the democratic efforts in the individual states. In reality, the introduction of the European Parliament and the election of the European Parliament have made use of much older ideas. There is no single line in the development of European history in this regard. It would be worth studying this aspect separately in all the studies on the history of the European idea, namely Parliamentary Assembly and Assemblys in the various European ideas. Then one would see that in some views we are still suffering from what only happened in the second half of the 19th century. ==References====External links==* Official website All previous plans in Europe have been in the first half of the 15th century since the first proposals. At the end of the century, there was a meeting to be held in Europe, which takes a majority of decisions – the countries can be quite different – which serve the common good. So, too, Austria must: The European Parliament's idea sees that we are presenting the European idea and all that we expect of improvements and progress for the people of this continent, nationally - controlled by the national Parliament - but that there is also the pan-European parliamentary component, which is perceived by the directly elected European Parliament. National parliamentary interests in relation to the EU and EU parliamentary interests are not contradictions, they are not allowed to compete with each other, but they complement and impose on each other. It is about the fact that what is being created in Europe is also legitimised, carried along and created by as many people as possible. And the more we succeed legally, the more people think this will be ready for Europe. And that's what we're talking about, as I hope, but everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3465	The two requests made by Mr Arbitrator are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3490	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! There has been a great deal of talk today, of course about the electoral order and the electorate. Leave I would therefore like to highlight two more points, first of all with regard to federalism. It is always said that all Austrian interests are to be represented, and that is why one wants a single constituency. I would like to point out that once again, an election promise made by the rulers in the course of the referendum was broken. What about federalism in Austria? – The state reform was promised. This was subsequently pushed to the long bank. The Federal Council reform was also promised. It has been promised that there will be a Europe of the regions represented by the mandates in Brussels. This, too, has not been carried out in this way once again by our current electoral system. It seems to me that it is very slow to travel under the cover of federalism and the regions, when it comes to implanting or installing officials or representatives of social security in Brussels, and the only thing to do is to represent the proportion. In my opinion, the Austrian general interests, controlled by the main committee or the EU Committee, are nevertheless perceived by the government representatives, and it would have been of interest to perhaps make various constituencies available for the election of parliamentarians through two investigation procedures, so that a certain regionalism is expressed. This was pushed to the long bank, or a rejection was granted with the help of the ÖVP. This will, of course, also have consequences, because what about federalism among the representatives of the People's Party? It is almost perverse, if about seven federal states already have representations, officials' representations in Brussels, which cost tax money, destroy tax money, are built on proportions. There is no reason at all for me to act on the level of federalism at the official level without any need for it. There is a single example of such a representation in Brussels, which I believe is useful, and this is the overall trirole representation in Brussels, which is actually representing a region. We should be involved in such efforts, but certainly not when it comes to providing for officials or other half-time politicians in Brussels. In my opinion, fundingism has again been disregarded, which is ultimately set out in the Austrian Constitution. One more word about this alleged lack of time for the liberals, because it has always brought in a lot of wrongs. I have the impression that in Austria such formal matters are actually measured by two measures. We clearly – and this is fact – a group here in the house – not the liberals in order to say it more fully – which has proved to be late in making their request, but which has no problems in reimbursing their election costs. On the other hand, there is a political group, the liberal, who correctly and properly filed the request, in which they depend on whether they have been registered or not sent away. It is a formal criterion. We are constantly quoting opinions, but not completely, because there are not only two opinions, as Mr Hlavac has said, which can always, also be seen in the Committee, only be taught by the ministerial officials, but obviously have no own opinion, but there is more of them. There are also opinions from university professor Winkler and university professor Haller, who argue with quite a different view in this matter of time. I would just like to ask one thing: if we are already trying to make some political small money in this respect, Mr Frischenschlager knows who is meant with this other group, which has proved to be too late, so he smiles too - if an attempt is already made to cash political change, really fully and properly informed, towards the public and here in the House. That is the duty of every Member, and that is why I would also like to pay attention to the House's practices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3541	I call Mrs Frieser. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3562	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are about 80 pages in the legislative text concerning the election of Members to be sent from Austria to the European Parliament. There should be many good reasons for us to agree to this government proposal, and I would like to take one or two more quickly in terms of content, because this has already been adequately discussed. I would like to maintain, Mr President, and my colleague, Mr Graf: As far as the four-percent clause in the context of the single electoral group of Austria is concerned, we are very satisfied with this regulation, because I believe that it has prevented the de facto barrier clause. It is remarkable in this law that, despite the European Union's requirement, many proven features of Austrian electoral law could be incorporated, which makes this new electoral system very well embedded in the current electoral structure and does not represent a foreign body. However, I would also like to make a formal comment on the law: With this decision-making, we fulfil, on the other hand, a very important task for our democracy, which was imposed on us on the occasion of accession to the European Community, in a timely manner, and not, as is very often the case, under time pressure or sometimes later on. So this law is a binding law, and we could have avoided it or avoided it by nothing. That means it doesn't fall into the category of law flood. Moreover, this law fulfils a quality criterion, which we as legislators have given far too little attention in the past, but in the future should give all the more, namely: This is a legible law, simply written in a positive sense. So we are laying the foundations for this important task today, namely for the election of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! What we can't do by law, however, by not using a template as always prepared, is to send really suitable, competent and committed Europeans to this challenge. And it is up to every candidate party – in recording the list of candidates – to make candidates available to meet these criteria. That is why I am looking for all the candidate parties to provide European elections with competent, committed, socio-politically oriented candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3614	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur wishes the final word and I give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3635	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have only two print error corrections. According to the European Electoral Evidence Act, § 5 para. 1 to be removed from the indent after the parentheses, and in the European Electoral Order, Article IV, according to the word "Parties Act".
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3659	I would like to thank the rapporteur, and we will take into account the corrections to print errors when we vote. We shall therefore proceed to the votes taken separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft European Monetary System and on the title and receipt in 28 of the supplements, taking into account the just-informed correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Mr Magistrate. Mainly a request for a separate vote with regard to Articles IV Z3 and V. Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades have also tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, it is agreed on the parts of the draft law concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the supplementary motion tabled by Mr Dr. Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades on the addition of an Abs. 7 to § 89 in Article I of the Law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support this supplementary request, Kostelka-Khol, for a sign. – I adopt the unanimous decision-making procedure. The amendment to Kostelka, Khol and Comrades refers to the table of contents on Article I as well as to Article I § 30 para. 2 and § 90 and title. I ask those members of the House who, in favour of these parts of the draft law, in the version of the amendment tabled by Kostelka, Khol and Comrades, also to give a sign of acceptance. – I also note the unanimous adoption here. In this way we shall vote on Rule IV Z3 as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the amendment made by the rapporteur, and I would ask for a sign in the event of approval. – This is decided by a majority. I shall vote next on Rule V as amended by the Committee's report, and I would also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it for a sign. – I note that Article V has been adopted by a majority. Finally, we shall be voting on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I would also ask for a sign here in the event of approval. – These parts of the draft law are unanimously adopted. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading for a sign. The proposal was unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall therefore proceed next to the vote on the draft European Elections Act, together with the title and receipt in 29 of the Supplements, also taking into account the correction of the print error. There's a motion for a amendment, Schieder, Donabauer. I would therefore like to vote on the parts affected by the amendment tabled by Mr Schieder, Mr Donabauer, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. The amendment tabled by Schieder, Donabauer, refers to the table of contents as well as to the amendment of the section designation of § 20. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who, for these parts of the draft law, as amended by the amendment tabled by the arbitrators, Donabauer, to present a sign of acceptance. – I adopt the unanimous decision-making procedure. In this way we shall vote on the remaining parts of this draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report and the correction of the print error, and I would ask for a sign in the event of approval. – I adopt the unanimous decision-making procedure. This concludes the second reading. We shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal in third reading to give a sign. . I adopt the unanimous decision-making at third reading. The draft law is adopted. This item on the agenda is done. 3rd. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (22 of Supplements): 1. BIG Law Novelle (26 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3782	We're coming to 3. I'm sorry, but the deadline expired 2 days ago. This is the report of the Building Committee on Government Template 1. BIG law novelle in 22 of the supplements. Mrs Maria Fekter has been entrusted with reporting by the Committee and will initiate the proceedings. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3800	I bring the report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (22 of Supplements): Federal Law, with which the BIG Act, BGBl. No. 419/1992, as amended, as amended by: BIG Law Novelle. It is planned to have a building built within the framework of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft in New York. For this purpose, the property in New York must be included in the BIG Act Annex A. The Members Kurt Eder, Maria Rauch-Kallat, Dr. Maria Fekter and Karl Gerfried Müller submitted an amendment to which agreement arrangements are made and the University of Klagenfurt is transferred to the BIG. The text of the amendment was adopted by a majority vote in the vote. In addition, the Building Committee, acting by a majority, made the following statement: With regard to the New York Cultural Institute, the Committee assumes that the planned extension of Appendix A to the BIG Act or the related transfer of the establishment and operation of the Austrian Cultural Centre in New York does not entail any additional budgetary burden (except rental payments). In particular, it will ensure that no building cost contributions (even if not due to rental fees) are made in addition from the budget. With regard to the University of Klagenfurt, the Committee assumes that all university entities included in Appendix A to the BIG Act were previously transferred to the BIG with new buildings in progress or planned. Furthermore, it is assumed that the country of Carinthia and the city of Klagenfurt participate in the total cost plus turnover tax and financing costs of the project and that the proportion of the federal government is up to 50 percent. As a result of its deliberations, the Building Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft legislation annexed to the written committee report. Mr President. I would ask you to go into the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3852	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her introduction. This debate is subject to a time limit, 10 minutes per speaker, 20 minutes first speaker; a maximum of three speakers per group. Mr Schöll. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first speaker to speak is Mr Schöll. Therefore, speaking time is 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3882	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! 11 East, 52nd Street, New York – an address that has already gained great importance in recent years, especially through the great mediaecho on the occasion of the architectural competition. This address will continue to remain the seat of the Austrian Cultural Institute, and at this address a new building will be built which we today in the form of the 1. BIG-Law-Novelle. It is the best location in New York. There were 226 submissions of the most prominent architects, an international jury several times, several rounds of votes were completed, and there were numerous interesting solutions. Finally, the winner in this international competition was the architect Raimund Abraham. It is certainly a spectacular, modern design that has achieved first place here – the subsequent large international media echo confirms this. The "Zürcher Zeitung" for example wrote on 6 June. February 1993: "Between guillotine and totem stake" – an imposing building that will contribute to the promotion of Austrian art, Austrian artists and Austrian culture, certainly also important for tourism. At the time, Dr. Mock tried very much to continue to give Austria the importance that we urgently need in this context – that is, a building in New York, in the world's largest display window, a very good place for the presentation of Austrian artists. Certainly there may have been discussions there and there, especially with regard to the self-evidentness of this draft, but such discussions at the time also existed at the Hundertwasser-Haus in Vienna, and today, after several years, one can see that this Hundertwasser-Haus is internationally recognized and is visited and visited by many tourists year after year. After this competition, unfortunately, several years passed. Unfortunately! Although there were calls for tenders, the procedure was temporarily suspended, alternative construction variants were discussed, American providers came up with the plan – unfortunately, no Austrian companies were found. There has also been a price problem over the years. First of all, about 7 million dollars were assumed, then 9 million dollars, 11.5 million dollars – today's figure: 15.2 million dollars, plus architectural fees plus legal advice, currently a number of about 17.7, 17.8 million dollars, about 180 million schilling. The architect's fee alone stands for book with about 11.5 percent, plus premium replacement. Now on the technical data. The area was originally planned and planned for about 700 to 800 square meters. It could now be enlarged to 1,700 square meters. Owner of the property: the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The following are intended to be used: Exhibition rooms, theatre rooms, offices, apartments for guests and an apartment for the director. The previously calculated rent is to be about 354 S per square meter per month. It was told us – and I have checked it too – that is, the local rental rate. Now I am already asking the question in the room whether it is absolutely necessary at this rental rate to accommodate apartments for guests and an apartment for the board of directors. It is very expensive, and perhaps you could still think about whether you could not otherwise establish them more cheaply. Unfortunately – and I am particularly sorry – no private sponsors have been found so far, so that we see ourselves confronted with the present state of affairs, here about a revision of the BIG law and a inclusion in Appendix A this way. Unfortunately, there are no concrete calculations either. There are still no documents available. [[Call to the Freeman: Have you even been looking for private sponsors?]] I hope you have tried to find private sponsors. But perhaps the Secretary of State will tell us today. Now to the missing documents: In the meantime, a part could be examined by us in retrospect, especially in connection with the BIG Directorate. In essence, the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft is expected to shoot 30 million Schillings and also to take over the total funding. It is therefore intended to include the total loans, to make almost any debt through fruit law, in order to first save the Republic in the budget. In addition – and this was particularly noted in the supplementary request – the agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should always be drawn up – which is a key point, but at the same time the BIG should also maintain the agreement, above all, with the Ministry of Finance and with the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The question that also concerns us today is: Why have so many years passed, why have you now apparently entrusted the BIG with this haste and haste in recent weeks? Why didn't she get entrusted earlier? You'd have had more time. One could have more concretely calculated the price situation again. I do not understand, of course, this haste and haste, which has now been caused by it. I know that it has also been referred to in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy by the threat of the loss of the status of the Republic of Austria. I can only agree with that. But it would certainly have given a better economic opportunity if the BIG had been entrusted in good time. Perhaps it would also have been possible to find out Austrian companies who want to participate in the construction. We were only told in the Committee that, unfortunately, we did not find any Austrian companies in New York, so there can be no employment of the Austrian construction industry either. Perhaps this will change a lot, especially when I think about what was said yesterday by President Maderthaner. He has known to act and told us that he did not represent Austria until last week at the opera ball in New York. I hope that he has also taken this opportunity to establish appropriate contacts in the direction that Austrian companies could be allowed to move there and there. But I also hope that he has taken the opportunity to understand what has not yet succeeded in finding a sponsor there and there. That would relieve the budget, especially that of the BIG, but enormously. It seems to be the custom of the Committee on Construction to either not meet or be convened in Haste and haste. Last year he didn't even say he had to meet this time within 16 hours. Unfortunately, we have had to experience this several times. I am already aware that this has been a particularly urgent occasion to eliminate shortfalls which could damage Austria's reputation quickly. But on the other hand, I do not understand that in the long run such – and I would call it slutting – processes were carried and carried on by a wide variety of sides. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Then we were surprised in the committee with a particularly interesting combination, namely the combination of the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York and the University of Klagenfurt. Everything on the same request. The university in Klagenfurt is a planned new building at EZ. 134 and EZ. 457 Katastralgemeinde Gurlitsch. This property is also to be used to transfer to the Bundesmobiliengesellschaft. They have been able to convince themselves today when reporting what coldness and how laconically the Committee's report has gone about it in its comments. The rector of the University of Klagenfurt, Professor Dr. Dörfler, has also expressed his concerns several times. 190 million were too high construction costs – that was the amount at the time – and very high rental interest charges were put in his house. It also considered that the BIG did not solve the financing problems in the long term and that there were also many interesting financing proposals and proposals from private and private banks. No wonder, then, that at this meeting of the Committee on Buildings, the approval of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party did not take place. Haste and hurry, lack of documentation, surprising combination of Klagenfurt and New York made this impossible. Finally, in discussions with the BIG directors, which I have already mentioned in the Building Committee, I was able to obtain a little more clarity about the background – namely, the Directors Buresch and Chromamy. Especially in Klagenfurt, the transfer to the BIG is expected to result in a significant cost reduction of about 40 million schilling, and it is also thought that the otherwise usual rent of about 150 to 160 s per square meter will perhaps be significantly undercut. At that time, we did not give our consent to the establishment of the BIG, because the calculation was not sufficiently transparent for us at the time. We then agreed to the first BIG-Novelle, because in the meantime trust has developed and has also grown. It was an extension of Appendix A at the time. In recent days I have also received a number of other documents which have certainly increased this confidence which I have given to the BIG Executive Board in recent months. A number of visits and numerous discussions have shown me that there are really skilled professionals working there, so that in the end the initial negative attitude in the club was transferred to a positive basis of trust, and I believe that this time, even if there are many shortcomings here – we will then come back briefly in an additional resolution tabled by Mr Hofmann – although severe hearts for financial reasons, but light hearts, because it is the Austrian cultural institution, it is the BIG novelle. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] Above all, I am now particularly concerned with the rapid construction, the rapid completion of the construction operations, so that no further unprofitable time must pass in order to achieve success here. In this context, I wish the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York, the senior officials best success in presenting Austria positively in this largest display window in the world. This is particularly important for Austrian culture and for Austrian artists.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3927	Mrs Ferrero- Waldner, Secretary of State, spoke. Please, Mrs State Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e3949	Mr President. High house! If, in political, economic, technological and cultural areas, we want to observe the development of the world in the last decades and draw a conclusion from it, then, I believe, we must draw one, namely, that we can no longer decouple ourselves. Both the prosperity and security of our country require international presence, international cooperation and international positive profile. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: You think this is relatively late!]] – By no means, we will just pass this on again. We must prove ourselves outside the world and show what we can, we must not wait for you to come to us. We have already proved this, ladies and gentlemen, a few times, both the Federal Government within the framework of the European Union, through its accession, through our security policy initiatives, and – as I believe Austria is still a major cultural power – through cultural actions such as in this case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a pleasure either. I would like to quote German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, who was just recently, namely, on 15. January this year, said: "An industrial state that does not actively promote its reputation in the world, but reduces its cultural and scientific presence in the world, puts an important part of its trademark at stake." – And this is especially true of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you'll let me quote you any more. Kinkel, also on foreign cultural policy: "We invest in an infrastructure that depends on future external success." I would like to thank Mr Schöll, who mentioned all these motives as positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Within the framework of the foreign culture policy of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, twelve cultural institutes are the focus of Austrian culture abroad. These are, of course, London, Paris, Rome, which are our neighbouring countries, for example the Czech Republic, Hungary, but that is also New York. As you have already mentioned, we are lucky to have a property in New York in an excellent place. The building on it – if you allow me to carry it out again – which has been home to the Austrian Cultural Institute since 1963, however, is now 90 years old and fall into construction. There are neither police nor operational police and fire police permits available, which is why we had to look for a facility. This is also an indication of the need to act quickly now. Various variants of the future of the institute were therefore examined, of course the renovation of the building at first. But from economic considerations – that has already been mentioned – also because we were able to expand the area from 700 square meters to about 1 700 square meters, then Foreign Minister Dr. Mock decided to carry out a new construction on the basis of an international architectural competition. You all, Hohes Haus, probably also know the result of this competition. Because here in Parliament an exhibition of the most important and best models and the award-winning model took place, as was the case even in the Museum of Modern Arts in New York. The Austrian architect Raimund Abraham, who lives in New York, has received positive and even enthusiastic opinions throughout Austria and internationally – and we can be proud of it. ==References====External links== 12. wrote: "The choice of Abraham is a confession to the best cultural forces of our country." And the "New York Observer" in 1993: "One of the most important buildings in New York in the last decades." The project only came in negative headlines when, due to the budgetary situation in September last year, the then Minister of Finance Staribacher refused to implement the budget, although – and I must say so – the corresponding budgetary provision had been taken by us in the house. A comment from the local press: ==References====External links== Last year: "Every day, on the site of the Raimund-Abraham building in the heart of the metropolis, an evacuated old building would be, with caution, a missed day of care for the Austrian reputation in the world." That is why, ladies and gentlemen, over the past few months Vice-Cancellor and Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel has examined various variants of how we could realize the project, which was really called for positively both politically and in the media, and prevent an international blamage. We have now found a solution which seems to us to be an economic solution, namely the solution by the Federal Property Society, which is a very great advantage of the Republic's remaining the owner of both the property and the building, giving diplomatic immunities and privileges, and we also have the United States can save very high basic tax. It would be at least 100 000 dollars a year. That is a good thing, for example, that we do not have to pay for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This solution has been approved by both the Council of Ministers and the Committee on Building of the House. It is very gratifying that such a well-prepared cultural project has thus found great acceptance and is politically disputed. The only criticism I've heard is why we hadn't built before. Now I can tell you that we have been very serious about the project. We have carried out international open calls. We then examined on the basis of the call for proposals what has been achieved here in terms of results, and that was partly more expensive than what we had previously accepted. This is why we have once again carried out a special procedure, such as the In some cases, the United States has achieved much better prices. So we didn't sleep at all. Of course, as I have already mentioned, we have also taken care of it budgetly in the house. Only, as has already been said, the Minister of Finance found – and of course one has to say that today is a different situation than three or four years ago, about 1992 – should we not finance it from the budget. That is why we are very pleased to have found a solution that is highly budget-saving. Perhaps I may say briefly – at least provisionally –: Austria – and I thank you, as has already been said, for this political acceptance – must be on the map! In the United States too! Austria should no longer be confused with Australia. Such an architectural project, as is the cultural institution, which is now already recognised by the United States, will contribute greatly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4019	The next speaker was Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4041	Mr President. High house! Those who know the cultural institute in New York, who have been able to experience it in the last decades, have been able to convince themselves that there are all possibilities to offer Austrian artists a forum, to present themselves in the world metropolis New York, which is also the gateway to the world, to experience an exchange of ideas and to give Austrians a piece of their homes in the metropolis of New York. This building, however, has for a long time no longer corresponded to the ideas and also the needs of an Austrian cultural institute. For many years, therefore, it has been discussed whether a renovation or a new building should meet these needs. It is a pleasure to have chosen a new building, to replace the completely decomposed building of the cultural institute with a new building. This new building has been announced in a competition that has found an incredibly high level of participation. There have been 448 collection of the competition documents and 226 submissions. A special challenge for the architects was the dimensions of this cultural institution. A width of just over 7 meters and a depth of 20 meters represented a difficult starting position for each architect. The completion of the competition took place in agreement between Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Mock and Minister of Finance Dr. Lacina. The result was mainly recognised by its transparency and integrity worldwide. An international jury had to select the winner project from the 226 submissions, and there was an impressive acceptance. You can see this from the papers that have been or have been published from these jury meetings. There has been a very intense and very harmonious discussion here, and the impressive acceptance of the Austrian architect Raimund Abraham's draft through national and international media as well as above all from the specialist world has shown that the decision of the jury was correct. Richard Oldenburg, director of the Museum of Modern Arts in New York, said that with this construction, Austria will be ahead of all other countries for decades. But also other newspapers, especially renowned American newspapers, from the "New York Times" to the "Washington Post", the "New York Magazine" to the "New Yorker" have made quite positive comments on this draft. The "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" also joins the anthems of praise – quote –: With this virtuosoly staged tower in New York, Abraham will give Austria a large, culturally important appearance. In its character, the construction already compared with Frank Lloyd Wright ́s Guggenheim-Museum will be able to measure itself with top works of high-rise architecture. The echo in the local press was also most gratifying. The "Kurier" has titled: "Austria makes it to New York Furore", and the "Standard" called the New York Cultural Institute the most important building since Mies van der Rohe. At the opening of the exhibition at the Museum of Modern Arts, its director said that Austria with this Building countries such as France, England, Germany and Italy would leave behind for decades. It is therefore to be expected, without excessive optimism, that Austria will write with the realization of this building architectural history. This means that every year a million audience is automatically confronted with an exemplary object of Austrian contemporary architecture, which is already being compared by the media with legendary cult buildings such as the Guggenheim Museum or the Seagram Building. The proposed BIG model solution is also intended to ensure that the expected success of this new building and the resulting re-route profitability will benefit only Austria in the wider and cultural interests in the narrower sense. By the property solution, this building remains the property of the Republic. It was also not necessary to find sponsors, and thus the primary identity of the building and the programme, which is designed there, is also attributed to the country of Austria. The fact that there was no Austrian company participation is not surprising because there is no Austrian construction company currently operating on the American market, and therefore it was not possible to let an Austrian construction company get to the train here. The exhibition of the 55 existing new construction models, which took place in the USA and Europe in June 1995 and also in the Austrian Parliament, made it possible not only to launch an additional advertising campaign but also to familiarise a widest possible professional audience with the new building. The Museum of Modern Arts dedicated a three-week solo exhibition to the 3 meter model of the cultural institution building, and the model is already being presented in the official "New York City Cultural Guide" as a sight. Through ongoing information and involvement of various representatives of the parties represented in Parliament during their visits to New York and personal convictions, it was also possible to ensure that the construction of this building was politically disputed. It remains to be hoped that with this new building, the Austrian Cultural Institute, the Republic of Austria, in the heart of Manhattan, Austrian artists and artists, Austrian culture offers a window where they can show themselves from their best side.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4116	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: maximum 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4137	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of the establishment of a cultural institution in New York is beyond doubt to us liberals, especially if one knows that the cultural institution which has been used and is now relocated no longer corresponds to building and fire police and that exorbitant costs would be needed to renovate this building, costs which are in a ratio of approximately 1:1 to the new building costs, with an increase of 700 to 1,700 square meters also having a positive impact. The need for the small country of Austria to present itself accordingly with its considerable achievements in the cultural field is undisputed. I also accept the so-called re-route profitability, which should and can be said here. But, ladies and gentlemen, I also do not want to miss out on making a few comments and showing some issues. We are concerned about the nature of the construction and about the intended operation, that we must assume at the BIG that there is no international building management experience, and that the risk remains with the taxpayer in the end, especially since the Bundesmobiliengesellschaft is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Republic of Austria. It has also been mentioned by Mr Schöll that the original cost has increased from $7 million to at least $18 million. I do not share the view of Mrs Rauch-Kallat, who said that a sponsorship was not necessary because the funding would be clarified by the BIG and that would be a sensible financing. I am of the opinion that it is a failure that this attempt has not been launched and has not been taken into account. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Especially in times like this one – and we have talked at yesterday's meeting of the National Council very, very detailed about the problems in the labour market, including the problems facing the construction industry – we should consider whether this task, which is now to be done by the BIG, is good and right. In fact, in times when it is difficult to raise money for schools to be reorganised, public buildings which are partly in a very pitiful state, which, of course, would also result in a corresponding added value in the country, are being renovated, which would cause the BIG to take up a loan in a million dollars height, which would be a restriction on their actual task of providing for the federal buildings to care for them? Do you really show her a good service if they are ultimately prevented from doing so? It has the task of building federal buildings. If this is happening in the United States and it is a cultural institution, I wonder whether one should actually leave this amount with the BIG, so it does not cause it to borrow a loan, and whether a corresponding contribution should not be made on the part of the cultural budget to the financing of this project. I would also like to mention briefly the problems that have been identified in connection with the University of Klagenfurt and the transfer to the BIG, namely by Professor Dr. Dörfler, who fears by handing over to the BIG higher rental payments, the construction costs mentioned by the BIG amounting to around 100 million schillings as new buildings – with a corresponding planning phase and a corresponding time delay – and because of the acquisition by the BIG almost excludes other types of financing. In any case, there are various financing models, and he has also made this known in a letter to the Federal Minister. Let me conclude by making one more comment. We were agreed, as I believe, not 16, but 14 hours before the committee meeting. The reason for Mrs Ferrero-Waldner's statement was that, in the end, the commitment period of two tenders would have been the cause of this committee's rapid convocation. In a few days, your statement, Mrs. State Secretary, would end this commitment period. A foreign official present in the Building Committee noted that the time limit for the tenders had already expired in November 1995. You have been able to recognize our willingness, then, if there is a need for man, to be available in the short term, but you would have been able to give us pure wine in this respect and tell us that this binding period has expired, and you should have shown the resulting problem. There is a lack of preparation in connection with the establishment of this project. I therefore agree to submit the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4235	Mr Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He's on treatment. The next speaker is Mr Eder. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Your speaking time is up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4259	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to say that I am pleased that the Building Committee has drawn up a proposal and has put it into plenary session, which, if I have understood correctly, will also find the agreement of the Freedom Party. I'm happy about that. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: That's why they're also counter-recorded, I'm just saying, from the order of the list of speakers!]] I'm not paying any attention to this order. I always say what I think is right. Whether this is pro or counter, I really don't care much about it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I should also like to say, however, that only in the interests of the order that a Saul became a Paul from the Freedom Party, because in the Building Committee you have still been very critical of things and have not actually voted in favour of them. It is not quite logical, ladies and gentlemen, to build up the speeches of the liberal speakers in that, on the one hand, one criticises that the Building Committee was called up so quickly, on the other hand, the colleague Schöll asks why so many years have passed and nothing has been done. So it must happen sometime. You cannot criticize everything at the same time; you can either criticize one or the other, but not all at the same time. Next, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, I have a protocol of 25. In June 1992, when the BIG was founded, you can read Mr Schöll's speech in this Minutes. I am saving you to read all of this now, but you have, above all, claimed that all these things that happen here have always failed and not worked, and today – and I am delighted about this – you are asking why the BIG has not already presented this proposal to build the cultural centre. You see, therefore, that things which the government decides to reject, which you criticise, where you do not vote, are ultimately being used by you as an instrument a few years later, are very well praised, and are now very likely to be demanded the other way round, that you should have entered the whole earlier than it has happened. Ladies and gentlemen! I really don't want to approach you, I just wanted to keep this a bit of historical truth in mind, but all the more so I am pleased that today, at least as far as the Austrian Cultural Institute in New York is concerned, we have a broad consensus in the political groups. It is clear and quite logical that, of course, some criticism should be noted regarding the course of the process. If you weren't, you wouldn't make a good opposition policy. That's how I'd hold it here once. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! However, it has not yet been said very much about the second amendment, which is in addition to this proposal concerning the Austrian Cultural Institute, and I would also like to briefly address this joint request by the Social Democrats and the ÖVP, with which the extension of the University of Klagenfurt to the BIG and the expansion building which has been planned for a long time, also through the Federal Property Society. This expansion of the University of Klagenfurt gives the university employees the space they really need, and on the other hand I see this initiative as an important impetus for the domestic economy. Ladies and gentlemen! In the decision of this project, the Building Committee assumed that the country of Carinthia and the City of Klagenfurt would take part in the overall costs plus the turnover tax and financing costs of the project and that the proportion of the federal government would not exceed 50 percent. I think this is a good solution. The project itself is already in the preliminary draft and comprises a gross floor area of approximately 12 500 square meters and a net floor area of approximately 10 700 square meters. The transfer of this project to the BIG is now no longer in the way of rapid planning and implementation of this project. I believe it is very important that, in the present difficult situation of the construction industry, which we discussed for a long time yesterday, and above all in view of the relatively high unemployment rate that we have, appropriate measures should also be taken to relax the situation. These measures, of course, include the implementation of the annual employment model required by the construction workers' union for years, which has been permanently rejected by employers. On the other hand, infrastructure measures must be put in place to boost the construction economy, particularly in the postal and rail sectors. Furthermore, my group has long called for the introduction of the road pricing principle to finance the gaps in the high-level road network to be implemented as quickly as possible. In addition, as has now been done in the example of the University of Klagenfurt, construction-ready federal projects must be transferred as quickly as possible to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, which was created to build, revitalize and manage federal buildings cost-effectively. At the construction summit in December, it was decided, as a measure for the construction industry, that construction projects should be transferred to the BIG in 1996 at a total cost of 3.2 billion Schilling and handled by the BIG. By transferring the extension of the University of Klagenfurt to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, additional 300 million Schilling can now be used effectively. The resolution via the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft represents a two-way cost-effective variant for the federal government: on the one hand, construction costs are charged net, on the other hand, it is assumed that the pre-limited costs of around 300 million Schilling could also be met or even, as we were assured by the directors of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, could be undermined. I am incomprehensible in connection with the transfer of the University of Klagenfurt to the BIG the position of the Freedom Party, in particular that of Mr Schöll, in the Building Committee. I would therefore really like to make it clear, Mr Schöll – for you have said it again today – that the SPÖ did not support the creation of the cultural institute in New York with the inclusion of the University of Klagenfurt, but that we regard this initiative as an important impetus for the employees of the University of Klagenfurt and, on the other hand, the creation of jobs for the domestic construction industry. We have only the opportunity that the Building Committee has already done so and it has been possible to transfer a mature project to the BIG, as soon as possible, in order to include it with an amendment. That was actually the consideration I wanted to explain and clarify here again. But it's standing anyway, I hope, out of dispute. The use of the Freedom Party for jobs, as discussed yesterday, seems to be just a lip commitment, because the measures you are proposing are very easy to cover under the cover of employment security, which we heard yesterday in the entire debate from your speakers, to the detriment of workers and the unemployed. On the other hand, they call for a number of tax advantages for entrepreneurs to be financed at the expense of other groups of the population or by a higher budget deficit. On other points, you have simply slowed down concepts from us, and your President has already meant that you should at least do so. You can rest assured that we will be able to meet our own concepts safely without your help. The fact that you are often not really or only very variablely serious with your commitment will prove today – and this is quite simply to be said – that, in concrete projects for the construction industry, such as the expansion building of the University of Klagenfurt, you have initially refused your approval in the Building Committee, but today in plenary, you will agree on what I am pleased about. However, we hope that this project will now, as already in the Committee on Buildings, find the majority in the overall plenary session. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Plenum is enough!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4318	Mrs Dr Schmidt has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Your speaking time is up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4339	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Before I start, one word only to Mr Eder. I meant that you should slow down your joy at the consent of the liberals, because they have been reported as counter-voicers, and if this group has only a spark of parliamentary opposition – and I do not demand more than this because of my previous experience – then the negative arguments must prevail, otherwise it would not be able to report "contra". [[Abg. Scheibner: You are so kind and charming! Incredible!]] – I just wanted to say that about your positive assessment. [[Abg. Scheibner: Very "liberal"!]] I don't wonder that you don't know what liberal is. Liberal does not mean to say yes and amen and not to understand where the double floor is. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's a hate speech, not a positive speech!]] When I listened to the speakers of this group, a quote from the architect Abraham came back to me, who said it was a difference whether you want to build or architecture. That, I think, is an essential approach to the whole discussion. If only the pen is spoken of here, only some square meters, then this reminds me so much of the discussion that we have already experienced so painfully and inferiorly in other construction projects in Austria, right up to the last update of the museum quarter, where it is then discussed at once how many meters a reading tower might be too high or too low, and where perhaps we still think about whether to do a popular survey on such things. This is an access to architecture that, however, in Austria – unfortunately, I must say – has tradition. That is why I am all the more pleased – and I think you should say from this pult – that such an undertaking was even initiated, as the New York Cultural Institute represents. Only the kind of competition, how it was written out, how it was carried out – of course then also from the result, but that was not to be foreseen – is a remarkable cultural policy step that one must recognize and rejoice at. I am pleased about this, and I am therefore all the more pleased about it if it has led to such a result. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I think that it is necessary – I do not care to speak for the protocol – to re-introduce the whole process and the Genesis of this project – that is already on record, and you know – but the fact that this project has finally produced such a result and was thought of with such anthems – in part hymns – is something that should also be very concretely strengthened by an Austrian and an Austrian, is something that I consider to be an essential contribution to a cultural self-understanding, especially in the field of contemporary art. As it continued, however, was also a typical Austrian spectacle, in which case a tragedy occurred. This is because the savings package has cast its shadows over this project. In this case, it was the Social Democratic Minister of Finance who suddenly found that one cannot afford it, just about according to the motto that we otherwise know only from another group: With culture you can save the most, because: "What do you need from me?" We heard it again today: In times like this one has to consider whether the money could not be used better for other rehabilitation cases there or there. This is a mental attitude that leads us all to this false cultural concept and ultimately to a prepared ground for cultural hostility. This is my firm conviction, as I also know that there are directives for different politicians not to accept any cultural subsidies. In times when support for families has to be reduced, in times when we have to save where certain groups of the population are affected, it is best to save on culture. This is something that fills me with a great discomfort, because it shows that it does not understand the importance of cultural policy for a society, that it is a seismograph of the state of a society, that culture is a ferment for the development of a society, and that it cannot therefore be used as an accountant, which can actually be brought in through the so-called redirection profitability, as it has been said here. And if there is a return on the way, then it must be put into another dimension. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I believe that in front of this stegreiftheater at the Schrebergarten level, where only the actors of Busek and Häupl, as we have experienced at the Museumsquartier, have turned to Schusel and Staribacher, that, before this project is thrown out, only the international dimension has saved us, a dimension which we could not limit anymore. Because once it is true that international newspapers also deal with us that, in fact – such quotes have already been brought – the architectural critic of the "New York Times" speaks of the most innovative project of the last generation, it is no longer so easy that one loses itself in the swamp of this party hack, the really almost childish measure of power – who can wipe out the other and say that I am the one who can move it – but we had to go beyond that; quite unlike other projects that we still have at the national level. This includes, for example, the Albertina, in which the omens are reversed, because there is green light from the Social Democratic Minister's side, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is rising to the brake. One wants to demonstrate that it is only in agreement, and in this way one obviously wants to have play material and capital for other things. By the way, this is particularly regrettable with the Albertina – I want to throw it in, because I think it is really necessary – because if there is already an agreement on a building – I therefore look at Minister Schüssel very consciously – then I really think it is more than inhibitory and retroactive if one argues about whether one could not invest the money in the facade. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: That's not how it is!]] That's it. In this way, the possibilities for this essential graphic collection are getting worse and worse, and the further work in this museum is hardly possible anymore. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: There has been a commitment for 250 million schilling, but not for 700 or 800 million!]] That's not quite what you're saying. In addition, I must say, one had already agreed on a reduction in the construction, but sometimes I have the impression that the ÖVP is primarily about the facade – I see that in other areas of life – and not so much about what is behind it, not about what the content is. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] But the real point, why you are so easily dealing with all these things – that was also the ease, in the case of social democracy, in connection with the New York Cultural Institute – is that architecture in its value is obviously not understood as an art form. There are also symptomatic indications for this. Only the fact that the affairs of the architects are located in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and not in the art section also speak a spoken language. Furthermore, I think it is most unfortunate that we have such a fragmentation of competences in the cultural sector as a whole and that foreign culture is located in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs instead of what would be more useful, concentrated in an art ministry or an art section. It would then be unnecessary to do so. That architecture is not also understood as a contemporary art form, I therefore consider Austria to be so sad, because I believe that architecture is just an area that shows Austria a particularly good business card. We have in contemporary music, we have in contemporary visual art, we have in contemporary literature quite individual examples that have been found in the international scene and international recognition – that is beautiful, and that is pleasing – but if I really appreciate it, we do not have it in any area of art to such an extent as in architecture, whether it is Hollein, whether the wood builder, whether the Coop is sky blue or the Luigi Blue. All those architects, who really are as a business card of our contemporary art throughout the world, I say now, carry out the image of Austria – they are, to an extent, anchored in the international cultural and art discourse as otherwise, no direction of art. It is precisely because of this that we should recognize the value that comes to the New York Cultural Institute. Therefore, one should finally get away from the border of the computer, the numbering and the calculation, where otherwise something should be renovated, and see the dimension it comes to. Architecture still has a very important impulse: It is an art form, in which there is no brake threshold in the form that you have to go in to consume it, that you have to do something extra, I look at this exhibition or this play I look at, but it is something that is offered directly to you, which is something that you so to speak directly. And if it is even more prominent than this New York cultural institution, it is a special opportunity to convey cultural awareness in order to convey cultural understanding and art understanding. And that should be our concern. I believe that only cultural activity, that self-confidence in this area can be the actual bulwark against anti-cultural tendencies, and I believe that the New York Cultural Institute could help to create self-confidence and joy in contemporary art. That is exactly what we need; we need much more of it in Austria than we have. There is self-confidence and joy in traditional forms of art in Austria, in all that our history represents, what our image has made up, of which we are still in trouble today. But as soon as it comes to contemporary art, it stops. There, the circles of individuals are getting smaller and smaller, who are committed to it, who have the corresponding consciousness for it and for which it is self-understanding. And that would be a task for politics: to work towards greater circles. In my opinion, the New York Cultural Institute is an opportunity. I am therefore glad that we can now adopt the relevant law as the basis for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4451	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. – I give the floor to you, honourable Member. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4472	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The argument of Mrs Klubobfrau Heide Schmidt is really anything but conclusive. Mrs. Colleague! On the one hand, you are calling for a departure from the small-cared party hack, on the other hand, you are insisting that once again we receive a rare praise from the Social Democratic Party for our voting behaviour which we have announced. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs. Colleague! Please note: A certain opinion was expressed in the Building Committee. We have held a club meeting on this, we have consulted in the club, we have formed an opinion, and we will vote accordingly here. [[Abg. May. Peter: What are you doing?]] Mr Peter! Mrs Schmidt! Please note: With us there is not the human cold that reigns with you! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They are a lot running out of it because of the human cold! [[Abg. May. Peter: What the hell is that? A Kasperl Theatre!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Liberal Forum is too unimportant for me to use more time for it. Let me come to the point of getting an opinion on the matter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a liberal cultural speaker, I can make it clear that we are a liberal movement for the cultural work of the foreign office through the cultural institutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is a very clear confession, regardless of whether it is the cultural institute in Warsaw, in the Czech Republic, in Tehran or now in New York. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are committed to this cultural policy, which takes place within the framework of the Foreign Office. And we also find it beneficial that the entire cultural budget is divided into several resorts, although we do not explore that the main resort is, of course, the one that Mr Scholten is chairman of. But we find it very positive that there are other areas of cultural policy, because it would not be easy for us to monopolize cultural policy in a sector of which a prominent representative of this social-democratic cultural policy, namely Mrs Kulturstadtratin Paterk, says that this – the cultural resort – is an indispensable place of ideology. In this sense, we are very glad that the entire cultural budget is split up. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Specific to the New York project, New York: We believe that, of course, New York is an important scene of contemporary art. And we are also pleased that there is a contemporary artist, Arnulf Rainer, who has managed to create a museum, a permanent museum or a permanent exhibition in New York through his own initiative. We believe that it is very important that Austrian cultural policy and culture are also present in New York. This is, of course, also the reason why we are talking about the generous expansion of the cultural institute in New York. I fully agree with my previous speaker, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, that it is architecturally very attractive to build a 20-storey high-rise building on just 200 square metres of floor space. Because a small high-rise house – and perhaps one of the smallest high-rise houses at all – is an architectural paradox. I may allow myself to express my personal opinion on architecture here. I personally – that is only my opinion, I agree with each one’s own opinion – likes the execution of this new cultural institution in terms of architecture very well. The waterfall-like facade is really attractive. I believe that this is a worthy business card for Austrian architecture in New York. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For legal settlement: From my point of view, the legal construction of the new cultural institute is in order. The Republic of Austria has granted the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft a fruit rights. The Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft concludes a lease agreement with the Republic of Austria and rents out the building, while the building leadership remains with the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It remains, of course, the advertising drop that has already been mentioned that the project has been delayed by half a year for obvious political reasons and has been put on ice for half a year due to a political hack by Red and Black. Mr Morak, the cultural speaker of the Austrian People's Party, has even gone up to talking about a cultural struggle. I don't want to go that far. I would like at all, ladies and gentlemen, and with this appeal to all the parliamentary parties, to warn, Mr Cap, that every diverge in the view of cultural policy should immediately be highly stylized as a cultural struggle, for example any criticism practiced at a play or at a work of literature. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A weak applause!]] I'm sure that's not right. Remember, for example, that the new novel by Günter Grass by Reich-Ranicki, the most famous literary critic of Germany, was formally torn. You may know the cover of the magazine "Spiegel", on which Reich-Ranicki literally tears the book of Grass. Again, it was immediately said that this was worse than the burning of books. Ladies and gentlemen! For the next legislative period, I would like us to not immediately stylize words such as "cultural struggle" and "book burning" et cetera in order to represent our partly divergent statements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Reich-Ranicki and Grass, about this has been discussed for a long time in the city council in Linz!]] Mr Koppler! We can take a separate discussion about Reich-Ranicki and Günter Grass. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the matter and clarify my party's opinion. We consider Abraham's project to be a very important project for New York and for our foreign cultural policy, we think it is a really successful project. And we believe that this was a worthy business card of Austrian architecture in New York.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4586	Mrs Rauch-Kallat once again spoke. – Madam honourable Member, as you have been able to take 20 minutes to speak, your open speaking time is 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4607	Mr President. In addition to my speech, I should like to make an amendment tabled by Mrs Maria Rauch-Kallat, Mr Eder and my colleagues to the draft Government document, which is under negotiation, as amended by the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4661	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment submitted by you is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. 10 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4685	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I turn my debate towards where he belongs, a brief word to my previous speaker, Mr Krüger. I firmly reject the general evasion of the Liberal Forum in general and the most decisive in terms of cultural policy. It lacks any material basis and is therefore, in my opinion, confined to pure polemics. In 1992 the well-known architect Raimund Abraham gained international attention when he won the architectural competition for the construction of the Austrian cultural center in New York. In fact, this architectural performance was very much observed, not only in the local press, in the New York press, but also internationally. "A nervous prisma of a building for Manhattan" is a true expression for what was presented here, I think, probably one of the most true. Or: "A long-standing new accent for the New York skyline." That is because one knows that in New York, one can say, for decades now, no more buildings in the conventional style for this city are being built, because simply the space is missing and the revitalization of existing buildings is also at borders. In my opinion, the Ausland-Austrian Raimund Abraham, who does not regard himself as the developer of a particular architectural style, but rather as an integral problem solver, has reached the point in this draft, which in this city has still been a sign of an internationally leading cultural nation, as Austria is. As a National Council, we should not allow all architects who create such projects at home and abroad to pay our due thanks and our recognition. It is indeed an example of a worthy succession, as it was also called in a leading New York newspaper, for buildings such as the Seagram’s Building, the Guggenheim Museum of Modern Art or the Whitney Museum. I therefore found it all the more regrettable that the image gains achieved in 1992/93 due to this architectural competition were significantly affected by the delay in the start of construction last year. You didn't actually understand that in New York. My colleague Maria Rauch-Kallat meant that what went through the newspapers was exemplary. I would like to add: What the threatening construction stop on negative headlines in New York was not about bad parents either. One has wondered what is going on here in Austria, and has wondered if one suddenly no longer takes the role as a leading cultural nation due to a party policy hack seriously in Austria. I am glad that there was a broad consensus in the Committee on Budgets after a few times. The liberals have not yet given the impression that they would give their approval to this project in plenary session a few days ago. I am surprised and at the same time grateful that there is a five-party agreement here at the end of the day. I would like to address some of the things that my previous speakers have mentioned to Schöll or Hoffmann. I do not see the limitation of the amount of 18 million dollars that you wish to raise as a ceiling with your motion for a resolution, for the following reasons: The 18 million dollars are the pure amount of construction. Further amounts will be added so that I am in favour of putting the truth on the table - of about 260 million schilling. This will come very close to reality, because the building has to be set up, with all the drums. I'm glad when this preliminated sum of 260 million schilling is enough, and I don't want to say: In the field of cultural policy, standards are also different from those of the accounting foundation, as Dr Schmidt has already explained. [[Abg. Dr. Grollitsch: Building remains buildings!]] Buildings remain buildings, of course, but this building will give Austria a very high priority in international cultural policy. There will be a high return on the way, that is not a question for me at all. We simply owe it to the reputation of our country that this building is now being completed quickly and without further hack, so that it can be opened in a reasonable time. In the United States, there is no understanding of this when our image in the cultural policy sector is again being questioned, as has been the case before. In short: It is high time to realize this project. It is appropriate to strengthen the position of Austria as one of the leading cultural nations, and therefore it was never a question for my group, for a minute, whether or not we give this construction project the consent. It has always been clear, and I am glad that this great consensus will come about today.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4726	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Mock. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4747	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, I would just like to say a few words, among other things, about the performance of an artist who has for a long time brought back to one of the world's most prominent places in Austria. Austria has repeatedly shown that it is capable of doing a great deal of work. We have not always been able to present the great achievements accordingly. That is why I am grateful to everyone today, especially the opposition, that this project has received such a good reception and recognition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Krüger! I do not take this as a matter of course. The opposition is not primarily there in order to commend the government's achievements or to give it recognition on an ongoing basis, but to carry out and control critical analyses. All the more so in this understanding of our democracy is the achievement that is being achieved by all the political groups, especially the opposition. I would particularly like to thank Vice-Chanceller Dr. Schüssel for ensuring that, with a new method of financing, we are now in a time of savings packages, no further delays are made from the funding, which is very important. I admit, it has been informed very quickly, rightly, that has been noted. The Vice-Chancellor has also recently said that. Why? – To avoid further cost increases, reduce the risk. Ladies and gentlemen! Such a project is relatively easy to characterise, comment and positively classify when you are ready. But the risk that is implied is remarkable. The rules of law, especially the regulations of the city of New York, the state of New York, also had to be respected by certain laws of the United States, the legal order of Austria and many others. At the same time, the artist and his work should maintain the greatest possible autonomy. The risk was considerable, but responsible, and therefore, I believe, it was rightly accepted, as the artist's draft then showed. I am grateful to all those who have contributed to this, as has been said, especially to the Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel and also to the new Minister for Finance climate which has made this path possible. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If the political will is there, you can also have different views or different basic political concepts: You will find yourself together again and again in the interest of the country. We can all occasionally be inspired by this project and by the practice of honest consensus-making on other subjects in Parliament. It also has its shortcomings, but it has all merged in the interest of our country, also because we are proud of the creativity of our artists. It was, in a sense, not a result of the usual work of the Foreign Office, but a special event. We had three characteristics: For the first time, a cultural institute has not been renovated, has not been renovated, has not been extended, has been newly built – for the first time since 1945! For the first time, it was not a question of what is being exhibited there, whether the appeal is found by the visitor, but the new dimension in the form of a new building should represent the artistic value, namely the building on and for itself. And thirdly, Recognition was an extraordinary one, both nationally and internationally. I believe that by selecting the international jury with the artist Raimund Abraham, we have put a man at the centre of the event, which for Austria is extremely much additional has brought and will bring. I say loud and clear: Austria can be proud of Raimund Abraham. [[We welcome the ÖVP, the SPÖ, the liberals and representatives of the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] Why did you take the risk? – Some things have already been mentioned. The sum of the repair costs soon came into the area of costs for the construction of a new cultural institute, with the same area of use of 700 square meters. Now we have 1,700 square meters available. Secondly, we had to expect companies to leave again. Thirdly, we had to fear that with membership of the European Union, we would have to re-submit all or part of it. We have seen in inner Austrian projects, for example in St. Pölten, what difficulties this creates in an additional way. At the same time, the cost factor is running. And in the end, it was the main reason for my decision that there was a tremendous interest of our architects and artists. We have believed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that 30 to 50 artists will apply, will request the documents, 20 to 30 will bring models into the competition. As mentioned earlier, 486 artists and groups of artists have been interested, exactly 458 have requested application documents and 226 have submitted a project. And these 226 and about 50 of them were of such interest that they came to the exhibition around the world in Chicago, New York and Innsbruck and brought Austria new recognition. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can be inspired by the fact that different political views or basic concepts in politics can very well lead to joint achievements if the political will exists. It does not always have to be pointed out the opposite. I find this finding because I think that the dialogue in democracy is essential. If we have said that we want as much freedom as possible for the artist – and I believe that artistic freedom requires not only tolerance but also guarantee it – then we must say that no freedom should develop without responsibility. There's a delicate border to draw. It also occasionally occurs that people are active in the art business, who are only creative for themselves, but not for the visitor to the theatre, not for the public. I wouldn't identify with that. This is a tension that must always be kept in balance: as much freedom as possible, but also limits by the sense of responsibility towards the fellow human beings, even if necessary, towards the taxpayer. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Secondly, I believe that if I plead here for freedom, I must of course also oppose the monopoly of the promotion of art. If you are committed to reducing private art monopolies in order to build up state, this is incompatible with my view of artistic freedom. Here, too, I think, you should keep this tension relationship. In this tension relationship between public and private, there is the freedom space where the artist can optimally develop, just what Austrian talents arrive at. Thirdly, I believe that we should strengthen our national identity with the incredible artistic potential of Austria, not with sharp demarcation attempts, but in openness to other cultures. We present our culture, not only in New York, but all over the world. We welcome other cultures, we are open to them, we are nationally conscious, but we are opposed to any aggressive nationalism, as it now shows itself again – not only in Europe. Aggressive nationalism has nothing to do with patriotism, and what Raimund Abraham has created in New York is also a strengthening of Austrian patriotism, which should make our identity even stronger in the age of European integration.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4843	Mrs Ing. Langthaler. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to speak for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4865	Mr President. I note in your vote that you just want me to speak to you for 20 minutes, but, ladies and gentlemen, I do it very briefly and I will only need two minutes because I can really join in almost everything my previous speaker Dr. Mock. If you talk about Austria in America and people ask what they know and know about Austria, then most of the two things come to mind: the Trapp Family and the Sound of Music and the Lipizzans. A little bit is, of course, already the role of cultural policy, most of which is rather the music, generally known, but much more is it not. But one has seen that even a small country can be absolutely successful in obtaining in general publicity with an excellent project in New York and beyond New York. The project is really excellent. It is a great, indeed a great event that we vote unanimously here, as I can see from the debate, in favour of the project. The Green Group is happy to vote in favour of this, and we are pleased that this project can finally be started after so many discussions and yet many delays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4898	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote, and I would ask you to take the seats. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 26 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment concerning the entry into force of the draft law. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and receipt, taking into account the above-mentioned amendment as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. . Here too, the unanimous adoption at third reading is to be adopted. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schöll and Mr Comrades on the limitation of construction costs for the construction of the Austrian cultural institute in New York. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. That concludes item 3 of the agenda. 4. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (16 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Court of Auditors Act 1948 (27 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4974	We're now on the 4th. Point: Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (16 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the Court of Auditors Act 1948 (27 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. I ask her to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e4996	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I will report to the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template: Federal Act amending the Court of Auditors Act 1948 (16 of the Supplements). With the Federal Constitutional Law Novelle 1994, BGBl. No. In 1013, legal professional representations were included in the audit of the Court of Auditors and the Office of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors was abolished. Accordingly, the Court of Auditors' Act 1948 is to be amended. Information on the Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors should be removed. The Constitutional Committee has the opposing government template at its meeting on 26 May. Negotiating in January 1996. At the time of the vote, the draft law contained in the Government's proposal was adopted by a majority vote. The Committee also adopted a committee which you, ladies and gentlemen, can draw from the report in writing (27 of the supplements to the Stenographical Protocols). As a result of its deliberations, the Constitutional Committee therefore requests that the National Council give constitutional approval to the draft law submitted by the Federal Government (16 of the supplements). Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5033	Thank you for reporting. We are now beginning the debate. For this purpose, a speaking time limit of 10 minutes per speaker was set, with a speaking time of 20 minutes available to a speaker of each club. A maximum of three speakers are speaking per club. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. – speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5059	Mr President. High house! On the last Friday at the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, a simple legal system concerning the amendment of the Court of Auditors Act 1948 was also adopted. It was a follow-up to the constitutional changes of the last GP, which abolished the Court of Auditors' vice-presidents on the one hand and introduced the Court of Auditors' audit competence for the Chambers on the other. At the meeting of the Constitutional Committee, quite contrary to what was to be expected to bring about a simple rule of law on the stage, a strong and very fundamental debate on the whole amendment of the Court of Auditors' law in the last GP, including on the constitutional area, as well as on the present government proposal from the liberals towards the other four political groups has developed. I would like to sum up once again what is, from a free point of view, only one and a half pages of the legislative text: In contrast to the government groups, we believe that the Austrian Federal Constitution, following the constitutional change of the last GP in this respect, provides for a clear and clear extension of the Court of Auditors' reports. We believe that not only Article 127b(4), but also Articles 121 and the following in this context, should be taken into account, and that, therefore, this present legislative text would be a restriction on the Court of Auditors' reporting obligations if the Court of Auditors' audit reports were sent only to the audited Chambers and the supervisory authorities, but not to the Land Days and also to the National Council. It would therefore be curious that, for example, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Federal Ministry of Health and Consumer Protection would probably have received the Court of Auditors' report on inconsistencies in the Chambers, but the National Council as the actual sending body – also called for the control of the administration in that State – would not have submitted the relevant audit reports. I think that this is an end, because I believe that the National Council must also be very interested in getting and discussing inconsistencies in the field of the chamber state, at a time when membership of the Chambers is compulsory and not voluntary membership. This applies both to the Land Days as regards the Chambers of Agriculture and to the National Council as far as the other Chambers are concerned, from the Notarial Chamber to the Veterinary Chamber, the Chamber of Advocates, the Chamber of Physicians to the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce. It is unsatisfactory for us liberals that it is in the discretion of the audited body – the board – in which form this test report is made public. We know that, although chamber reports have been made public on a number of points, the hourly edition of the Chamber headquarters has only allowed the members of the Court of Auditors' audit report to be consulted for a short time, especially to the detriment of those who have to come from the surrounding regions. I think that this is a double downfall, because the audit by the Court of Auditors also causes considerable costs – not only the Court of Auditors, but also the examination by relevant tax advisors or those who are otherwise included in the audits. I therefore believe that from the point of view of an opposition party and, as I hope, from the point of view of the whole of Parliament, this government proposal must be considered insufficient. I also believe that this draft government is not in conformity with the Constitution, because it norms a restriction in a simple legal regime of a constitutional reporting and publication obligation of the Court of Auditors, which, in my opinion, is not acceptable to my group. Mr Brauneder and Mr Klubobmann-Deputy Mag. Stadler as a profound lawyer, when I am the one who is currently speaking here, and others in the Committee have had a heated debate on the subject of constitutional conformity. For me, it is the second law of this Constitutional Committee, which, in turn, includes a decisive lack, namely that of a non-consensual arrangement for such an important body as the Court of Auditors as the control body of Parliament. Moreover, the fact that § 20a(1) only refers to the correctness of a number, the conformity with the existing rules and also to the economy and economy of the examination, and does not include the argument of expediency, has already been assembled by us liberals at the constitutional novel in the previous legislative period, and this lack is now recognizable from our point of view. We have therefore prepared for today a request from Members of the European Parliament for the constitutional anchoring of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors on a proposal from the Federal Council and the President of the Court of Auditors on a proposal from the National Council. I should also like to explain how we come to this view. On the one hand, the Court of Auditors is the body of the National Council, on the other hand, the body of the Land Days. In our view, therefore, it would only be right and cheap if this monocretic institution of the Court of Auditors at the head of the Court of Auditors would not only have a single President who decides in what order and in what order the Federal or State departments are to be examined, but it would be appropriate to reintroduce the old four-eye principle, namely the President of the Court of Auditors and Vice-President, who has proved himself to be successful from our point of view. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The cost argument put into the meeting in this context cannot be maintained in relation to what the Court of Auditors has achieved in terms of savings potential due to a proper and balanced assessment of all areas of administration in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen! We hope that our request concerning the amendment of the Federal Constitutional Act, as amended by 1929, will find a majority in the Constitutional Committee and also in the Assembly. We believe that when we look at the practice of the last two years, which is to say, what tests have been carried out, in which areas of examinations have been carried out on a regular basis, an unsatisfactory state can be determined in Parliament. I can only remind you of a few things, without putting any emphasis on completeness. In the Committee, however, it was not in plenary that the Court of Auditors' report on Pyhrn Autobahn AG, XVIII, was completed. GP, the special report of the Court of Auditors on the First Danube Steam Shipping Society, XVIII. GP, the Court of Auditors' Perception Report on Austria Metall AG, XVIII. GP, the Court of Auditors' Perception Report on the Austrian wine marketing service GesmbH, XVIII. GP. All of this was then recovered in the summer months, because it was no longer possible at the ordinary meeting. The Court of Auditors' Perception Report on some energy supply companies in the XIX. GP was not dealt with in plenary session, nor was the Court of Auditors' activity report – administrative year 1993, XIX. GP, and the supplement to the Court of Auditors’ activity report – the management year 1993 of the XIX. GP. The Committee discussed and not concluded – not in plenary – the Court of Auditors’ special report on procurement in the Federal Ministry of State Defense was the first partial report, XIX. GP. Neither in the Committee nor in the plenary session was the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its surveys on average incomes and the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the public sector of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1991 and 1992, XVIII. GP, the Court of Auditors' Perception Report on the Bank for Tyrol and Vorarlberg, the Bank for Carinthia and Styria, the Post and Telegraph Directorate Linz and the Telecommunication Office Linz, XIX. GP, the Court of Auditors' Perception Report on Museum Quarterly Development and Works, XIX. GP, the Court of Auditors' Perception Report on the Hospitals Cooperation Fund and the Vienna General Hospital, XIX. GP, the Court of Auditors’ activity report – 1994 administrative year, XIX. GP, as well as the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its surveys on average income as well as the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the field of the federal public economy in 1993 and 1994, XIX. GP. A number of audit reports from the Court of Auditors submitted by Parliament were therefore only partially or not dealt with at all. I think this is a situation which Parliament can no longer tolerate in connection with the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that Parliament would be well advised if it were not only rudimentary if all political groups finally agreed on a fixed date a week or every 14 days, at the meetings of the Committee on the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors' reports on the matter. For one thing must be clear to us: The Court of Auditors, its reports and reporting on them are costing several hundred million schillings. The failure to take account of these reports and thus of the Court of Auditors' arguments as a result of the failure to complete the reports here in Parliament – therefore they are not notified to the public – causes damage, namely that the audited bodies are not or are merely reluctant to respond to the criticism and to make improvements in the administration and in its management. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore believe that the Austrian Parliament would be well advised to devote itself in the future to the handling of dates, to the course of the Court of Auditors' reports and to their treatment here in Parliament, in order not to hear the accusation of Parliament at some point in time, to be a toothless body of control and only to cause costs, an argument which is often to be read in daily newspapers. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall now make the request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We believe that the biggest flaws which the Government's document 16 of the Supplements to the Stoneographic Protocols of the National Council in this form have fixed, and ask the ladies and gentlemen of the other political groups to support our amendment. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5218	Deputies! The amendment you have just tabled is sufficiently supported. He is involved in the negotiations. However, I must draw your attention to the following: The Bureau shall: It submits an amendment which contains in the text of the law the wording you presented, but the explanatory statement has obviously been added here for a constitutional novel that is not present. Please, perhaps this can be explained by a speaker from your group. Next, Deputy Dr. Herb has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5245	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The only point I have to address to my previous speaker, Mr Mag. Mr President, it is his statement that a debate has taken place in the Constitutional Committee. That has indeed been the case. The cause of this – which is very easy to see – was, however, the repeated, antique and long boring attacks on the professional interests of the FPÖ. Both from time and content, they are completely in addition. The request which has just been submitted also shows how piecemeal the FPÖ procedure is on this issue. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We had nothing to do with this legally!]] Mr Stadler! I'm glad you've already recovered from your caller debacle yesterday. It has not only enjoyed 100,000 television viewers, but also all of us here. If you provide further contributions, we are very pleased about this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: I don't need to recover from that!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fundamental discussion has long been a matter of the decision of a federal law. [[Further calls of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Mr Stadler! I come to the content of the arguments and to the critical points. It's actually an adjustment. It is always pretended to be a completely new matter. Article 127b of the Constitution standardises a power of the Court of Auditors to review the conduct of legal professional representations under certain conditions with certain restrictions. And this proposal also includes the implementation of Article 124, namely the representation of the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors by the oldest officials. De facto, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about further control of the interests, in some way an addition. It is always tried to give the impression, especially in connection with the Chamber of Workers, that some scandals are being committed in dark backrooms. I remain with the example of the Chamber of Workers. The Labour Chamber Act 1992 includes a comprehensive control system. Annual estimates must be submitted, of course, according to the principles of unity, completeness and clarity. A statement of accounts, a balance of assets and a profit account must be presented. There is a control committee. In all Chambers of Workers, all political groups are represented with at least one member. The supervisory law of the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is given. Both auditors are appointed, audit the accounts, present the results of the general assembly and so on and so on. But for the purpose test. Ladies and gentlemen! If you respect the Institute of Self-Government – and it is a proven system, it is successful; Austria continues to be envied by self-government and social partnership – so if you are aware of the social partners' status, as the vast majority of Austrians do, then the chambers must bear the responsibility for the purpose of their own decisions, assume this responsibility themselves. And it is natural, logical and consistent that this also applies to the Court of Auditors. It is a difference whether the Court of Auditors, for example, examines the procurement of the federal army or road construction companies or examines a self-government body. Autonomy is the keyword in this case. Mr Voggenhuber, for example, does not make it easy to deal with constitutional questions. It also noted in the Committee that self-administrative rights should be respected, on the other hand that public control is necessary and that the proposal constitutes a suitable compromise. Also, my colleague, Mrs Fischenschlager, does not act easily on constitutional issues. He also says he respects the right to self-government. We will therefore adopt this law by a large majority today. There will be only the FPÖ. Only the FPÖ believes that the fight against workers, workers' interests, against chambers, against legal interests must continue. The concept of FPÖ is wrong – thank God already knows – if she acts as a representative of the little man, but at the same time attacks the employee representation, the representation of the little man. On the one hand, there is full information from the FPÖ officials in the chamber's control bodies, on the other hand, it acts as if dark powers were anything behind closed doors. – This is characteristic of the FPÖ's double-soilness, which the voters also recognized. This is what you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, took into account on 17 November. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm telling you, just because I'm from Styria, where the theme of the Chamber of Workers is quite sensitive: The efforts have been registered there, recognized, the criticism is not directed against officials of chambers. The last year was marked by another criticism, namely criticism of very different privilege rites. I do not spare you today the mention of Mr Götz, who has a monthly income of 250 000 s and who has a trial against the taxpayer in order to obtain another 57 000 s. What was the result? – SPÖ plus 3.3 percent, FPÖ minus 2.1 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Some comments on the public and the publication of the reports. The reports shall be published in accordance with the law by the chairman of the relevant professional interest association. This mechanism, for me, is another concession to the Institute of Self-Government, which, by the way, is also an equivalent of willingness to be examined by the Court of Auditors, a willingness which was always given. But in this context, Mr President, the excitement is inappropriate. Public is public, publication is published. The reports will be fully accessible to everyone. By the way: Who is actually blocking the FPÖ members in the control committees – physically they are present – to inform the public? So I ask the crocodile beaches to dry. One last. A Vice-President of the Court of Auditors costs about 5 million schillings a year. The current Volksanwaltin Korosec has always been very committed to pointing out that these costs are not in proportion. If you take a look at the government template, you can see that the cost of this law is estimated at about 10.5 million schilling for personnel and about 2.2 million schilling for property expenditure each year. If we expect this to happen now, I must say that half of us are already almost in favour of saving the Vice-President, so I do not understand the FPÖ's request at all. However, if you have a little more knowledge of this matter and if you have a little light on the background, you actually understand that. It's a political business you're planning. In this case, as well as in others, you are talking about post chess, which you know. That's the motive. They are therefore also exposed on this point. I hope that the doubts expressed by the President-in-Office in connection with the new regulation have been scattered in connection with his new power. The legal situation is clearly clarified. Once again, the Committee's statements – and I quote a sentence – are: On the other hand, the question of whether a policy of interest decided by the competent institution as such is economic or economic is not the subject of the audit of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! I consider the legal requirement of the Court of Auditors to be very positive today. It is a further strengthening of legal professional interests. That's good for the country, good for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5317	The next speaker is Member of Parliament. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Speech time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5338	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Act, with which the Court of Auditors' law is now to be amended, is the consequence of the amendment of the Federal Constitution, which was discussed in the House in 1994 as explained by my previous speakers. I think that the discussion in the Constitutional Committee a few days ago also presented the basic positioning of the colleagues of the Freedom Party, namely that they in themselves question the chamber system in Austria permanently and from the principle. I believe that the amendment tabled by Mr Magistrate too. The main features of this principle are very important. [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] Let me therefore, in a few sentences, say something about our view of the Chamber, of the participation of socially relevant groups in our state in political will-building. If it is true that, in accordance with Article 1 of the Federal Constitution, everything is right for the people of the state, then it is certainly not just the sum of individuals, but this people of the state is a people divided several times and, in particular, by interests. This recognises the Constitution when it allows local communities to be grouped into self-government bodies in a variety of ways, separated by common interests. In the whole of the fundamental debate, the diversity of these interests must be kept in mind, for example, with regard to private individuals: Private associations are a free creation of citizens, self-government bodies are a creation of the state. Private associations are based on freedom of association, self-government bodies are based on the state's organizational power. Citizens can collect their interests in full freedom, the state has only public interests to pursue, and can therefore only transfer to self-government bodies the performance of certain public tasks. In contrast to private associations, self-government bodies are responsible for public welfare in carrying out these public tasks – this is an extremely high claim. My previous speaker pointed out what has been set up in the last novelties of duties and control mechanisms in the Chambers. That it was necessary – let me say that – to give this impetus to a "Zachariade" is not a very special leaf of fame. On the subject of reporting to the National Council and the Land Days and on the issue of publication, I would like to underline what is just a matter of self-management: autonomous decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen! The particular difference is precisely that self-management is transferred from a particular group to the care and self-responsible care of their concerns and that only an auditing supervision is installed by the competent Federal Minister. I am delighted that the Chambers were able to reach a high level of agreement in the course of the surveys. This has been so in the areas of the Chambers of Agriculture, in individual chambers of the professions, in the Chambers of Commerce – approvals of around 80 percent! Only last week did two chambers, namely the Chamber of Farmers in Tyrol with a 60 percent stake and 97.9 percent consent and the Chamber of Labour in Tyrol with 72 percent participation and 98.7 percent consent, say yes to this construction. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is true that the chamber system in Europe is currently pronounced in a few countries – alongside Austria in Luxembourg, Saarland and Bremen. And if I don't have anything else to do – I can assure you that – I could make a lot of money as an action-traveler, as an advertiser in questions of chamber system in other countries. At the moment, we are very much in demand in Western Europe, because we want to know how we are doing this with this pillar of social partnership, a chamber system that we can in this way achieve the political will-making of the social groups. I can accept the amendment tabled by Mr Mag. In my opinion, he is promoting the principle of the State's concentration. Our principle of participation is the principle of subsidiarity. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5397	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stadler. - Please. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5419	Mr President. High house! It's interesting: Every time we talk about control at the chambers, the chamberers come out here – but also on every other occasion when they are then asked – they feel immediately caught up and believe that the chamber had already been questioned in principle, and then there are a lot of arguments that the chambers are right to exist, and it is said what great achievements they are doing and what existence they have. [[Abg. Dr. Leiner: Wau, wau!]] In this debate – at least today – nobody has ever questioned the existence of the Chambers in connection with the extension of control over the Chambers. I do not know what a bad conscience the speakers of the debate of the Red and Black speakers, when they come out and believe that they have to reason in principle the right of existence of the Chambers immediately. Mr Neugebauer shot the bird at all. He actually wanted us to know that we unsuspecting liberties do not want to understand that all the world is tearing to get a chamber system with forced membership, as Austria has. He could make a lot of money, he meant, if he were to speak across Europe about this forced chamber system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] The other Europeans have not yet understood how to create a chamber, and Mr Neugebauer is "moderately" enough not to make money to bring the Europeans closer to the Austrian Force Chamber system with the division of power in red and black. In this "modesty" he limits himself to wanting to make us believe in the House, how Europe is breaking around our system. Ladies and gentlemen! If Europe wanted to adopt our system, it would have done so for a long time. But we are currently making fun of ourselves at European level, Mr Neugebauer. We are the stairs in Brussels with the forced chamber system, with the red-black propor. And you represent this here as if it wanted to take over Europe. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You are obviously not man enough to realize that you are currently making fun of Austria with your "Kämmerer" system in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen! This proportion, which you have defended here, really does not want anyone in Europe. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You, Mr Neugebauer, are the only one who still believes that Europe must be happy with this. Ladies and gentlemen! Furthermore – and there it becomes particularly bizarre – comes colleague herbs – herbs, I think, he is called; nomen est omen – out and argues the debate of the Constitutional Committee because he... Yes, this is Schwemmlein. [[Abg. Sweamlein: "Deepway" like a down spring!]] I didn't mean the "fogs," I meant the "herds." Mr Klepsch, rapporteur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Herzegovina! If you say, in the light of this debate, that the liberals would fight against the interests of workers and would therefore be for the expansion of the Court of Auditors' control, you can see again how the liberals against the "little" man are against the workers, then you obviously have one-dimensionalally in mind the chambers of workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] Another chamber doesn't think you're caught up in this law. You have forgotten that the Bar, the Pharmacy Chamber – in which are probably all the "small" people of the Social Democrats – the Chambers of Commerce, the Chambers of Agriculture – believe me, you have almost nothing to say in it, only the Black speak in it – the Chambers of Other Professions, the Notare et cetera, that all these chambers are covered by this regulation, not only the Chambers of Workers. Ladies and gentlemen! These chambers generally do not represent the "small" workers who are currently afraid of their job, because a socialist maladministration puts him in crisis, or the "consumer" employee who was threatened by termination and therefore turned to his board for help and advice and was sold more than was represented by it. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, this regulation provides that all chambers, all of which are legally established, are to be subject to control. Therefore, we cannot imagine that we only have one-sidedly a weakening of the interests of workers. – This is written by colleagues herbs in his main book. Ladies and gentlemen! The majority of Austrians obviously do not want to know anything about these chambers. Because the majority of Austrians who were forced to be congratulated – and that was your next false claim... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Our original elections say something else!]] Your board is excluded, you really have your members under control. They also have a dependency relationship that seeks the same. That's what you're allowed to do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] As far as the farmers are from their Chamber, no other professional group is from their Chamber. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] That's right. You're perfectly right. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: You know that the chamber is working for them!]] But I am referring to those chambers where there is no relationship of replacement, as is the case with the Chambers of Agriculture. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: 98 percent in Tirol for compulsory membership!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you: The majority of Austrians regularly do not participate in elections to your ach so "glorious" representation of interests. And a large part of it – I dare not claim that this is the majority – would like to make use of his right to withdraw from the chamber in the states that partly rule in chambers, but you refuse to do so. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You could have removed her! You didn't go!]] Mr President Puttinger, who is a particularly intimate, believing chamberer, ladies and gentlemen, is currently congratulating the people and their forced members on whether they are for the survival of the chambers or not. In reality, he asks people whether they are for forced membership or not. But the believer Mr Puttinger does not have the courage to ask his members whether they are for or against compulsory membership, otherwise he would receive an honest answer. [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You didn't bring people!]] [[Abg. Dr. Puttinger: You didn't even bring your liberals!]] You could go with your forced membership, ladies and gentlemen! – That’s really how it looks! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The regulation, ladies and gentlemen, which is provided for in Article 127b of our Federal Constitution – which is now an extra one for Mr Herbe – provides for an extension of the examination skills and also for an extension of the Court of Auditors' competence or the possibility of informing others of the outcome of his examination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] That would be even more beautiful. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not permissible for the institution of Parliament, the National Council of the Court of Auditors or the institution of the competent Landtags Court of Auditors – as such, according to our constitutional situation – to inform the National Council or the Landtag of its audit activity. No, it must not be, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: That's incredible!]] But in this so-called "liberal", "open" system of forced chambers in Austria, the reports are placed in the chambers, and woe to that member of the peasantry, who next time is seeking support and says: On this occasion I would also like to see your test report! I look at how this is going to happen in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] This is the "open" "liberal" system of the forced chambers, to which we are supposed to envy all of Europe, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is said that the whole of Europe would like to see nothing more than such a system with limited public powers and some other restrictions, ladies and gentlemen. On the abolition of the Vice-President's function – and that is now said in your direction: [[the speaker turns to the ÖVP]] You know exactly what political background the abolition of the Vice-President's function has. [[Call the ÖVP:Participation!]] This is a revenge from your coalition partner. Your President-in-Office, after all, would never have become President under this scheme. In the future, it will no longer be possible for a Vice-President to rise to the President from the black quota. That's not supposed to happen again. This is the background to the abolition of the Vice-President's function, ladies and gentlemen. And you are playing with it now and believe that in the future too, the socialists will be able to prevent them from having access to the control body of this Republic. You're playing with it! Do not regret it in the future if the Socialists have also brought this control instrument under their control! High house! It is therefore necessary to question this government template on the basis of fundamental considerations and to support our request if we are serious about parliamentaryism and control in our Republic. That is why we kindly ask you to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5650	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors, who is in the audience gallery. Mr Dr. Freisenschlager has been reported on the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5674	Mr President. High house! Today's simple-law Court of Auditors Act Novelle does not make the debate easy insofar as we, as we have just heard from the previous speaker and as you have just said in plenary...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5695	I would ask you to accept that it is up to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5711	That's actually true, but they can talk calmly. It is actually a principle debate that we have already held – and that is where it has heard – when we changed the Constitution on this point at the time. But we can continue this debate. I would like to say the following to my colleagues, because there is a sharp misunderstanding here: Based on the constitutional situation, if you are on the ground of self-government and the autonomy of the chambers – because the constitutional basis is – even if you consider the system of chambers and the social partners to be false, you can approve of this Court of Auditors' Act of Novelle. This does not mean that we approve of the chamber state or the social partners' growth. – I wanted to clear this misunderstanding. So today we have essentially to decide on the simple legal implementation of the constitutional novel at that time. For example, one can now debate the question of the organisation of the Court of Auditors, one can say that it might be more useful to have a collegial form – all these debates can take place; we have conducted them – but if one goes out of this constitutional situation, then it is actually pointless to be against the simple law when the Constitution is so decided. That's a point. Now on the question of the Chambers and their Court of Auditors. I believe that the exclusion of the expediency from autonomy is justified, and that is why we have agreed to this point. With regard to reporting, I would like to say that: I do not think it is necessary for Parliament to deal with all the test reports in the various areas of the Chambers. It is crucial that the report is published that it is exposed to public criticism, of course also in the relevant bodies of the Chambers. But once again – and I think that's essential –: Of course, we believe that it is more appropriate to have an open, politically free society when representatives of interests voluntaryly and not through legal compulsory membership. I would like to say to Mr Neugebauer, as he is so much referring to the internal referenda, which is now running, that: The question of the Chambers and the State of the Chamber has not been described unjustly repeatedly as an element of our constitutional system. In my opinion, this is not the disposition of the professional and interest groups composed by a law in a chamber. If one is really directly democratic about this problem, the whole population should vote on whether it approves of this chamber system, this form of interest organization or not. That would be the correct procedure and not those votes on the Chambers to which I have to say: It is not the result of a great deal of art if, in the case of compulsory membership contributions, including compulsory members, in the case of appropriate chamber equipment, information systems and corresponding means, I have to vote among the members of the Chamber. I do not think that is a very strong argument. I mean, if we are dealing directly with the solution to this problem, then the whole population should vote on this constitutional structure, but not only the subjects, who do not have a fair voting situation, because the funds are very, very one-sided on the part of the Members of the Chamber. But I do not regard this as a disaster, but rather as a chamber-in-chamber process. The real question is whether we want this chamber state in this form and the growth of the social partners involved. – The debate on this principle. We do not say yes to the novelle with great enthusiasm – I like to admit that – because the system as such is quite critical. But if you start from our constitutional situation, you can only say yes to this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5778	Mr Wabl has now been reported to speak. - Here you go. – speaking time: 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5799	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the discussion on this change has been somewhat too simple by my previous speaker colleague Herbs. I am right to say that very often, in connection with criticism of the Chambers, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is calling for greater control instruments. Nevertheless, Mr President, if I look at Mr Stadler's speech, I have made a very constructive speech here. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] It is not easy to wipe out the table in connection with the audit criteria by the Court of Auditors to say that this is an attack on the chambers and on the representation of interests if the criterion is to be applied for. I believe that it has nothing to do with responsibility if I also agree with the audit criterion, because it remains in the autonomous responsibility of the individual chambers and institutions, how they manage their money, how they finally manage their political role and how they fulfil this political role. I think it is extremely problematic that this examination criterion is not included, and I believe that this is a cutting-off of the audit activity of the Court of Auditors. Another chapter is the issue of publication. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your Your argument sounds very staggering. Of course, the National Council and the Landtag should be able to negotiate the reports. After it is also one of the people's representatives' task to control the Chambers and deliver political opinions, I think it is very useful, although it is discussed in this House. However, Mr President, it is true that the Court of Auditors' report and the publication of the boards of the audit report will, at all events, make them public and negotiable. If you think that this should or should be dealt with here in the House, in the plenary or in the committee, then it is quite possible to discuss these reports in the House as well. There's nothing against that. If the negotiators in the Constitutional Committee have expressed their opinion – and this was obviously the great majority – that it must be in the area of the administration of the autonomous chambers that they themselves take care of and manage their business, then I think this is acceptable and quite correct. Ladies and gentlemen! On the abolition of the Vice-President of the Court of Auditors: We all know in this House that it is not a question of abolishing an superfluous office here, but rather of causing it more or less in the disastrous preparation of the Social Democrats for the last appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors. In connection with the appointment of the President of the Court of Auditors, the Social Democrats have made serious political mistakes: They have not carried out their candidates, have suffered a defeat here in this House, and then subsequently have the office of the President's representative to disposition, and finally also enforced it. I do not think that this is a very serious loss, but I think that this process is very worrying from a democratic point of view. Even though I think that Mr Stadler's division and vocations are overrun, I find it remarkable that there are obviously constitutional changes here due to previous democratic political failures of the largest group in this House. The Green Group will vote in favour of this amendment, which is available today. However, as a Member of Parliament, I should like to point out that I consider the problem of the lack of the criterion of examination to be particularly important. I would also like to say, as a comment to the honourable Member's speech, that I also believe that it would be very wise to set dates at a regular intervals, so that this unworthy game for appointment can finally end and that the reports can be negotiated in good time and taken note of here in plenary. However, I should like to point out, Mr President, that most of the reports could no longer be negotiated in this House, because Parliament's resolution has been somewhat hasty in recent months, in order to express it cautiously. Mr President, I should like to thank you for your I hope that your proposal for a regular deadline in the other political groups will fall on fertile ground. I am convinced that the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is open to this, as is the SPÖ and the Liberal Forum, and I hope that we can then come to a constructive solution. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5850	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. - Here you go. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e5871	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The question of the audit of the Court of Auditors - I believe that this must be mentioned and recalled - has only been revitalized and passed by law, because there was obviously maladministration in the Austrian chamber system. Col. Neugebauer called her "Zachariads", I could still mention the "rechbergies". Mr Neugebauer! I would like to thank you because you have distinguished very much and very precisely between legal interests and private associations. I think this distinction was very useful. They also focused on the fact that the legal representation of interests has a common good responsibility, which has been institutionalized by the state's organisational power. I just think that the control mechanisms in these chambers are always working only on one side for party policy reasons. It has been agreed that the one chamber is in the area of the Austrian People's Party and the other chamber in the area of Social Democrats. In this way, one has perverted over the eternal black and red party book economy in Austria this well-intentioned chamber system, which should devote itself exclusively to the interests of the entrepreneurs, which should be devoted exclusively to the interests of the workers, because one has immediately fallen back into the double pattern of this Republic: that is the red area and that is the black area – and a crow is obviously not an eye on the other. Ladies and gentlemen! One can of course now discuss the compulsory membership of the Chamber in such a way or so. Mr Stadler has got rid of his necessary adrenaline blast and has poured hohn and ridicule over it. I want to try... [[Abg. May. Stadler: He's back for the government!]] Now he says again: "He's conversing for the government!" The man really doesn't think anything but stupid calls. It's unfortunate. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He is constantly conversing for the government!]] You know, Mr Stadler, I don't wonder where applause is being applauded, but what personalities are applauded. That's important to me. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The Chamber State, ladies and gentlemen, is a problem in that it has become too expensive. Let us take a look at this question. The chamber state costs Austria nearly 20 billion schilling per year. At a time when the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic Affairs, and the Minister of Social Affairs are turning around every schilling in this Republic, this is taken care of without a word – and without a word also of your two political groups, which represent these chambers in essence, because you understand them as your property. At this time, no one speaks of a chamber state that costs this house 20 billion schillings a year. The Chamber of Commerce alone, whose members I am and whose members I would also remain if membership became voluntary, costs 6 billion schilling a year without a foreign economic organisation. Ladies and gentlemen! We will have to talk about why this system is so expensive and whether this 6 billion schilling – we stay at the Chamber of Commerce – is really justified and whether there is no loan management or the possibility to find new structures. Just one, ladies and gentlemen: As long as those responsible in the Chambers know that they get six billion schilling every year, there will be no reforms because they are not necessary because the necessary pressure is missing. This is the point on which I call for an objective discussion. We have already had a lot of experience in this republic. There are no reforms where there is regular revenue, where these revenues are legally insured, because it is much more comfortable to find hundreds of thousands of reasons to get their 6 billion schilling year after year, and all the reasons in this world are that these 6 billion shillings are also necessary. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: That's not true!]] I doubt all that Mr Neugebauer said rightly that, in order to fulfil this task, we really need 6 billion schilling. There is another argument, ladies and gentlemen: Most entrepreneurs do not know how high their contributions to the Chamber of Commerce are. I think this is a really opaque procedure. Of course, the section contribution, the basic set-aside, is familiar with the entrepreneurs of this Republic. But how many entrepreneurs know that they are funding a KU 1 once more as a promille rate of the advance tax and a KU 2 – you hear and marvel – by the additional wage costs? That is to say, our Chamber of Commerce, which will not tire of acting against the additional wage costs, is financed by these additional wage costs. My company, a medium-sized company, is paying 20 000 S of a chamber for seven sections in which I do not even want to be a member. I want to be a member of the Hotellerie Section, and I have no need for the others. Let's take the 20,000 s once as given. The fact that more than 90 percent of entrepreneurs do not know is that they still pay KU 1 – in my case, 14 000 S of the pre-tax and 90 000 S of additional pay costs over KU 2. How does President Maderthaner, with President Verzellnich or Madam President Hostasch, want to argue about the additional wage costs when the Chamber itself is financed by the additional wage costs? There's the rabbit in the pepper. We must discuss this, ladies and gentlemen. It is a matter of setting up chamber reform if we really think it is serious. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] The survey we have now experienced was for cruising. I know, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party and from the Social Democrats, that we will now hear it like a prayer mill that you have now democratically legitimized yourself. Only the question is a strong piece. To let members vote, first of all, do not know how much they pay the club where they are, and second, the word "competition" to which it is a question of not letting happen at all, that is abuse of a vote. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think this vote is a farce, and I am telling you today that I do not recognise this vote because it is a farce. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It serves only the preservation of power of the ÖVP in the area of the Chamber of Commerce and the preservation of power of the Social Democratic Party in the area of the Chamber of Labour. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You think the entrepreneurs are pretty stupid!]] These are the points that we should once discuss in a serious way. These are the points that we should deal with. You have conducted a survey which I do not think has been carried out in the form of a real survey. Ladies and gentlemen! How could – briefly sketched – look like a slender Chamber of Commerce? – Let’s take the German model: The specialist representatives are free. We do not need 100 departments in every federal state. It may only be more than 60 in Vorarlberg, because the brushes of Vorarlberg say: We don't want a section, we don't need anything. It would be useful to have a free representation with a choice of personality, where it is not a question of the president of the section being everything in the world, but he must be black because he otherwise does not fit into the system. That's the point, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, a free trade representation with a voluntary membership, where only those sections are established at the level of the countries that are necessary, and these sections then elect their trade unions. [[Abg. Böhacker: Voluntary membership!]] My compromise proposal to the chamber representatives and the whole Austrian People's Party in the field of the Chamber of Commerce: I can very well imagine that there is an election on party lists in the area of election for the Chamber of State Assembly. I can imagine this very well, because that is where the entrepreneurship Parliament is elected. But, my Ladies and gentlemen: The sections we've been dragging around with us as a "loving" relic of the last 40 years, we don't need them and we can save them. We can therefore become slimmer and let the Chamber of State Assembly become effective exclusively through its committees. We Liberals have tabled a request in Parliament during the last legislative period. He will come back because we want to know more about this subject. We call for compulsory membership – I call it compulsory membership, because I have a different relationship with it than Mr Stadler – to be lifted by law without questioning the legal representation of interest as such in the first step. There is a need for strong employee representation, for strong employers' representation, but not for black and red power, and not for a chamber state that costs us 20 billion schilling a year. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: 24 billion!]] [[15:35]] : No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 16 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts affected by the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Applebeck and Mr Comrades have tabled an amendment concerning paragraphs 1 and 3 of the draft law, and I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for it. – This is the minority. The draft is rejected. I shall immediately vote on paragraphs 1 and 3 as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the draft government proposal, and ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the report of the Federal Government (III-6 of the Supplements) pursuant to § 9 para. 7 of the Volksgruppengesetz on the promotion of groups in 1994 (31 of supplements) 6. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the report of the Federal Government (III-7 of the Supplements) pursuant to § 9 para. 7 of the People's Group Law on the Promotion of Groups in 1993 (30 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6035	We now come to points 5 and 6 of today's agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. These are the reports of the Constitutional Committee on the reports of the Federal Government (III-6 of the Supplements) on the promotion of the groups in 1994 (31 of the Supplements) and (III-7 of the Supplements) on the promotion of groups in 1993 (30 of the Supplements). The rapporteur on both points is Mrs Hlavac. I would ask them to open the debate and give their reports.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6056	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I shall report back to the Constitutional Committee on the Federal Government report in accordance with § 9 para. 7 of the People's Group Law on the Promotion of Groups in 1993 (III-7 of Supplements). The report shall cover the support measures taken during the reporting period within the meaning of the provisions of the Volksgruppengesetz and beyond. The Constitutional Committee adopted the report at its meeting on 26 March. After a majority debate, which took place in January 1996, it decided to recommend to the House the adoption of this report. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Constitutional Committee, that the National Council should submit the report submitted by the Federal Government in accordance with § 9 para. In 1993 (III-7 of the Supplements), take note of the People's Group Law on the Promotion of the Groups. Furthermore, Mr President, I shall return the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Federal Government's report in accordance with § 9 para. 7 of the Volksgruppengesetz on the promotion of the ethnic groups in 1994 (III-6 of the Supplements). This report was also adopted by the Constitutional Committee at its meeting on 26 May. Negotiating in January 1996. After a debate, the Committee decided by a majority to recommend to the House the adoption of this report. I therefore also propose, on behalf of the Constitutional Committee, that the National Council should submit the report submitted by the Federal Government in accordance with § 9 para. 7 of the Volksgruppengesetz on the promotion of the ethnic groups in 1994 (III-6 of the Supplements). Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would like to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6103	Thank you very much, rapporteur. For this debate, a speaking time limit of 10 minutes per speaker was set, with a speaking time of 20 minutes for a speaker of each club. There are no more than three speakers per club. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I should like to point out that we will be interrupting the sitting at 4 p.m. Mr Dr. Harald Ofner is the first speaker to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6135	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate is about the 1993 and 1994 national funding reports – a reading that is not particularly up-to-date. Perhaps you could find ways to make these reports more quickly available to the House – but not only to these reports, but also to others to be discussed here. But regardless of whether or not they are state-of-the-art or not, these reports represent an interesting reading. A lot of positive things can be taken from these reports – but also critical, which I will still speak about. I am sending forward two things: firstly, that we will agree to both of these reports, that both reports will be accepted; secondly, that the reports will once again document that Austria does not need to generate the support of the groups within its borders. One thing you have to say: It is on and on behalf of the peoples for their promotion, for their further development, for their blossoming and for their prosperity, as we see things, not enough money there. The budgetary constraints are known to all of us, and yet we will have to bear in mind the fact that the relatively narrow limits of the promotion of the ethnic groups are to be exceeded and gradually increased. Some peoples stand with their efforts to do cultural work for theirs, really at the beginning. If you look at the Roma and Sinti people's groups on the ground, how you try to produce a picture reading book in one of the languages of this group, you will see how difficult it is to create new creations, for example in sectors where other groups can take advantage of centuries of course. If one hears what this work costs for the relatively low conditions, which are ultimately necessary and look out, then one becomes aware that in the future, as the Republic of Austria in the context of the promotion of groups, but also beyond, we will have to get a little deeper into the bag than it is at present. It is also true that not every schilling – this shows a look at the two reports that are being discussed here – is used as much as one might wish for some to go different ways than it seems useful and fair. This is the case, for example, with the Croatian People's Group, where it is most apparent, and therefore I would like to take this issue out of the question, that part of the party's funding takes place in the direction of the Socialist Party and the Austrian People's Party. Almost each of the associations that appear in the report knows who of the two major parties he is to be assigned to. But sometimes there's no hiding game at all. For example, the SPÖ-Mandatare Bureau from Croatian and mixed-lingual communities received 400 000 S in 1993 and 500 000 S a year later, and the appropriate ÖVP-Verein has received amounts of equal or similar scale. I can only say: This has not wanted the legislator to do, nor does it correspond to the meaning and wording of the law, nor is it popular promotion, as we liberals imagine it to us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We believe that we should not get tired of showing this abusive procedure until it is stopped. I already know that it is difficult to find real representative purposes as a recipient for the promotion of groups. However, it must not be true that very unblemished groups, which even lead to the name of the party concerned in the title, become recipients of very high amounts in view of the relatively small amounts involved. What is not black and not red in this sector, except for a few exceptions, flows to various parishes, i.e. the Church. In principle, there is no objection. But it does not really have something to do with the promotion of groups, for example when the Roman Catholic parish of Weiden near Rechnitz is about the renovation of the organ, at the Roman Catholic parish of Drassburg about the repair of the church organ, at the Roman Catholic parish of Dürnbach about the acquisition of a Baldachhin and the renewal of the crossroads. Even in communities that are mixed or nationally speaking, it cannot really be part of the promotion of the people's group and its relatives if the local parish has the organ repaired or a baldachin acquired. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You will have to trust to raise your vote against it. Baldachin and organ are not people-specific facilities. To ensure that every parish is concerned, no matter in which areas it is located. But regardless of these inconsistencies, we believe that too little money is available. I therefore now announce that we liberals will be in agreement with the proposal in the House that the promotion of groups of people should be gradually raised to a significant sum within the next few years. We liberals, I would like to take the discussion on these two reports, which should be stressed again, without delay to promote very intensively the groups and thus also their families, namely the indigenous groups in their respective homelands. But only for this promotion! We are against the fact that there can be success in the creation of new groups of peoples, new groups from non-autothonic areas, not indigenous countries. That is to say, the six groups that are currently recognized: the Slovenians in Carinthia, the Croatians in Burgenland, the Slovaks and the Czechs in Vienna, the Hungarians in Burgenland and Vienna, the Roma and the Sinti in a more comprehensive geographical position, as they are all authoritative, have all the rights that can only be taken into account in the context of the support we want to give them in their native homeland. But in addition, there should not be any other groups of people in the sense of the law, with political and legal recognition and with corresponding consequences, as such groups. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the context of the discussion of this subject within the Constitutional Committee, a Member of Parliament was excited that in this context the terms of their home country, their place of origin, had fallen. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who was that?]] – It was Mr Voggenhuber. In this context, I refer to the wording used by the Federal Chancellery as the competent central authority. The Federal Chancellor's Office itself, in a counter address to a complaint to the Administrative Court, points out that home and residence are those terms that the legislator would have wanted in this context, which are to be found in the law in this direction and to which the Republic of Austria, in particular the Federal Chancellor's Office, also recognizes itself. It is not the case, therefore, that the day-to-day and random inventions of individual Members, such as the Harald Ofner, are, but it is the right to which we also confess. The Liberals are also taking part in the second motion for a resolution to be put to the vote on this subject, which calls on the Federal Government to ratify within this year the European Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages and the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. This is also so urgent, because we believe that we must make a great effort to reach a European people's right at the highest possible level as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Europe, the attitude towards this problem varies greatly from country to country: In many countries, ethnic group and minority policies are in a very bad state. I should like to remind you that there are countries in which the existence of apparently existing minorities – with a large number of heads still to do so – is always decided and permanently disputed. This includes, for example, France, but also Bulgaria, including Turkey. However, there are also countries in which very selective action is being carried out, such as Slovenia. In Slovenia, the Constitution explicitly mentions, acknowledges and considers the minority of the Italians, the minority of Hungary and, in a weakened form, those of Roma and Sinti with rights, but expressly does not make up the minority of the Old Austrian German tongue, although, according to careful estimates, it is still 50 000 or 60 000 heads. Other countries, such as the Czech Republic – to name only them – are moving all the way beyond the problems of minorities within their borders, by saying that they have none, and are of the opinion that every member of a ethnic group would have the same rights as any member of the majority population. This is one of the most unpleasant and dissenting positions at all. For if I do not recognise and promote a people's group legally and politically in every respect as such, but only take the view that the members of the minority groups as individuals have the same rights as the members of the majority population, then this is a cynical and safe way into the extermination of the respective ethnic groups. We therefore believe that the European People's Rights I have mentioned should be created today rather than tomorrow, and that it will have to be equipped with the necessary sanctions to ensure its enforcement to these countries in this respect too. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I think that, ladies and gentlemen, we must also make an effort to promote cross-border groups in Austria and its neighbouring countries. This is intended to achieve or ensure a certain balance at the higher level in the national policy in Austria on the one hand and in the neighbouring country on the other. I believe that we should try to establish, in this context, a Slovenian-Austrian or Austrian-Slovenian People's Advisory Council, which should on the one hand be equipped with representatives of the Slovenian People's Group in Carinthia, but also with those of the Old Austrian German tongue in Slovenia on the other. There should also be a cross-border group advisory board in the Burgenland, which should be sent to representatives of Hungary in Austria on the one hand, but also to those of the Old Austrian German tongue in Hungary on the other. This should continue with the Czechs, the Slovaks and the many other groups; I could imagine something like this everywhere. The aim is to determine on which side of each border is the higher level of support for the ethnic groups and their families, and to seek, as it were, bilaterally to increase the policy of the ethnic groups on the other side. In this way, I believe, it would be necessary, even before we will experience a European People's Group law throughout Europe, to achieve a more tolerable position in Austria and in neighbouring countries in people's groups. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I repeat that we Freemans are committed to the greatest possible promotion of the indigenous peoples in their native homeland. As an expression of this attitude, we will give our approval to the two reports which are under discussion today and we will also support the request which aims to ratify the Charter mentioned and which we have brought in. We will also bear in mind the request made by the Greens, which is a gradual increase in funding, with our agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6217	Mr Antoni has now been reported to speak. Speech time: 20 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Business treatment!]] Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6243	Mr President. I believe that, according to the Rules of Procedure, as announced on the agenda at the outset, we now have to start the debate on the deadline request, and I therefore believe that Mr Antoni should speak only after this debate or at another time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6273	Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6288	In accordance with the agreement, the statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior must now take place at 4 p.m. before we come to the debate on the request for a deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6307	Ladies and gentlemen! I have not been told anything contrary either. I remain in my announcement to interrupt the negotiations on agenda items 5 and 6 at 4 p.m. in order to carry out the declaration made by the Federal Minister for the Interior, as agreed in the Presidency. It is now perhaps no longer appropriate to give a Member the floor to him. I now have to speak very slowly to add at 4 p.m., but allow me to start: It is almost 4 p.m. and I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 5 and 6 of the agenda to come up with the statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Declaration by the Federal Minister for the Interior
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6331	We now come to the statement by the Federal Minister for the Interior. It has been agreed - I would like to point out - that, following this statement, a debate will take place in which a speaker or a speaker may make a statement over a period of 15 minutes. Mr Federal Minister, I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6358	Mr President. High house! It comes to me as the responsible for the enforcement of the laws of the 7th century. July 1948 on the care of war graves from the First and Second World War and on the care and protection of the war graves and war monuments from the Second World War for members of the Allies, the United Nations and for victims of the struggle for a free, democratic Austria and victims of political persecution, today to make a statement on the findings in the construction site area of the planned Traunwerk Lambach. On the occasion of dredging in the area of the machinery house for the planned power plant, the first was on Thursday, the 25. On January 26, 1996 and following the Gendarmerie Report, which is available to me. January 1996 skeletons found. I took up the report on this subject on Monday, 29 February. January 1996, an expert on the Black Cross, to send a medical doctor and some of my house's staff to Lambach, in cooperation with the officials of the responsible first instance – that is the head of the state of Upper Austria in central Federal Administration – first surveys. The following findings have been obtained: The cross-section, which was cut in the dredging work, shows seven kaverns, two of which were double-proved, i.e. nine dead were exposed in these works. The extension of this tomb is not yet known. The plant runs south-north direction; it could have an even greater expansion in both directions. The dead – according to the results so far – are no longer in this place for about 50 years. Because of the bone remains, it must have been about 20 to 22 years of age, namely persons of male sex. The upper and lower jaw remains indicate that they are probably not refugees or prisoners of war from Russia because their teeth were usually in worse condition, as I am told. It should also be noted that the skull fragments have no shot wounds. No dust remains have been found, no buttons have been found, and there has been no other evidence to suggest the identity of the dead. On the basis of this information, it is provisionally established: In any case, these are graves of war within the meaning of the cited laws. (a) the extension of these tombs and (b) the identity of the dead, not individually, but their group membership. In this phase – as in the still applicable to us – the preservation of these graves is worthy and decent. This justifys a very reticent procedure in the further work on this site. It is reported – at least in the morning and at noon – that at that time only 20 meters away from the graves found were worked on. I do not think this is compatible with the legal provisions. I agreed with Mr Pühringer this morning that these aspects should be taken into account and that he should inform me immediately after the meeting he had called on me about the further steps. However, such information has not yet come to me from his side. I therefore urge those responsible at Oberösterreichische Kraftwerk AG to ensure that, despite all the interests in play, a state is created for the next time, as we wish and consider appropriate in the area of cemeteries on which our relatives are buried. In order to take into account the interests of the power plant operators, I can only say the following: I cannot definitely tell you today and here how long the surveys now carried out by the head of state will take. The conclusion of these surveys, however, is the minimum requirement for a decision to be taken on an appropriate suggestion to move the dead. Such a decision should be taken after considering the existence of a public interest and interest in the rest of the dead, in this case by the Minister of the Interior. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, and the parties concerned for the patience and understanding that such a decision can only be made after the all-encompassing suggestion referred to – and only after careful consideration. A delay in construction work is therefore expected at least. We owe that to the dead!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6419	Federal Minister! Thank you very much for your remarks. I now give the floor to Mr Dr Kostelka.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria has not only become one of the leading industrial and economic nations in the last decades, but also indisputably one of Europe's most conscious countries in an ecological way. We have learned in a long and not quite painless process not only to act economically but also ecologically consciously. It is committed to protecting the natural environment as a basis for human beings and to protecting the environment from harmful effects, within the meaning of the Federal Constitutional Law on comprehensive environmental protection already adopted in 1984. Ladies and gentlemen! We must be aware, however, that the voters will not only measure us by the confessions, but also, in particular, by concrete decisions. We must not give in to the illusion that this recognition of ecological effects alone and almost automatically eliminates the tension ratio – the almost compelling tension relationship – between economic action on the one hand and ecologically responsible action on the other hand in all political and administrative decisions. On the contrary: Like all major objectives, the living harmony of ecology and economics in politics must also be the task of constant effort to make the confession in the sense of the Constitutional Court an effective, experienced reality. The recent days have shown by the example of a power plant building that even more than ten years after Hainburg, this tension ratio – and may be very small too – can lead to intense, very emotional and very controversial conflicts. Let me therefore point out from my point of view that a commitment to hydropower is necessary, especially in Austria, which, after all, was opposed to the use of nuclear energy in 1978. It is precisely in line with our natural living conditions in Austria, the predestined renewable energy, and it must not only remain with these fundamental confessions, but must also be implemented; it must be implemented in the renewal of existing and also in the construction of new power plants for the use of water energy. On behalf of my group, I can confess to the construction of hydropower stations and to the use of hydropower. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this commitment does not contradict living environmental protection and the acceptance of the use of hydropower. The Freudnau power plant proves this: To a great extent – to more than 75 percent – accepted by the population of Vienna, this power plant is being built these days, and it is one of the most Evidence of the fact that not only is there a harmony between ecology and economy, but there can also be a corresponding acceptance in the population. That this acceptance of the Lambach power plant does not exist is, for me, a very sad facet of this public debate. I have at least the impression that the political and administrative bodies appointed in Upper Austria to act on this consensus are not necessarily concerned. Especially in a democracy based on consensus such as that of Austria, we insist that this consensus is constantly being sought by new ones, in the sense of the credibility of politics, but also the feasibility of such projects. Ladies and gentlemen! This It is not least because the rule of law in a state such as that of ours can be measured not only by the formal accuracy of procedures, but also by the perceptibility of the decision. For my part, I have already explained that there is a very large, very substantial drops of wormwood, which is the result of acceptance. Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the reports of the Federal Minister for the Interior of the Federal Minister for the Interior on finds of graves of war deaths, reports say far more than 100, exactly where the machinery house of the future power plant is to stand. There was no need for a law from 1948 to ensure that such graves were worthy and decent. On the contrary: We are obliged to do so far beyond the legal requirements – already as citizens of this country. And it is totally irrelevant whether these victims who have found their last resting place here are concentrationd concentration camps or prisoners of war for racial or political reasons. Whoever they may be: They are victims of national socialist madness and are entitled to our reverence. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, this rest of the dead, which also requires the law, is to be granted without reservation: not only as a legal obligation, but as a human duty. This means that the rest of the dead also requires that no heavy machinery be used for the time being in the immediate vicinity of this planned power plant, that, until the situation of the grave is clarified, no mechanical activities call into question the necessary information and, in my view, that no speculations about the future fate of these tombs are made in the public, before one knows at all where exactly which people have found their last resting place. I call for at least a stop to construction in the area of this gravefield, in the sense of the agreement of the President. Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it is now a priority to carry out the Enlightenment, to ensure that with the necessary piety and reverence to these dead a solution is found and that the peace, but also the contemplation that is required of all of us, is also imposed by the above-Austrian authorities. I call for this as a consensus between all the political groups in this House and all the local authorities involved. In this sense, I should like to make a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Let us not make this the subject of party-political debate. Let us draw the consequences of this fund! Let's give the dead their rest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[16:17]] : The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mrs Kostelka, Dr. Khol and comrades are sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. Mr Kohl has now been notified to the House. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6557	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We actually wanted to discuss the question of power plant construction in Lambach on these two days, where a hydroelectric power plant is to be built on the basis of legal documents. There is a legal notice. We from the People's Party stand as the rule of law, we stand for environmental protection, and we certainly would have led this debate too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This power plant is built on historic floor. In the areas of Linz, Wels and Lambach, a number of wars have taken place in the last hundreds of years. The tomb that was reported to us yesterday is therefore only a recent proof that our story is coming back to us as it does so often. It's not the first graves to be found. It is also not the first graves found in the vicinity of the Mauthausen concentration camp. Throughout its history, the Republic of Austria has always handled such graves carefully and painstakingly. I do not therefore believe that we must be concerned here that this is not the case in this case too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, the Federal Minister has told us more about what brings to our attention the horrific details of such a tomb, especially when he points to racial characteristics and the like. He also pointed out that this morning the authorities of the country of Upper Austria and the Ministry of the Interior have issued a local eye-catching certificate and that he has expected a report from the competent authority. – Minister of State! I can tell you, I've just heard of it. I've been talking to the politician responsible for this. He has been trying to reach you in your office or here in Parliament for two hours, but he has not succeeded. They were unattainable. At least he wanted to give you the report. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful for the fact that the Federal Minister for the Interior has reported to us and that we are now discussing, in a way worthy of this House, not the question of the environmental sense or non-Sinnes, the issues of the tension relationship between hydropower, environmental protection and the rule of law – that is a matter of the State of Upper Austria – but that we are giving short statements in the House on what is important in this context, namely on this tomb. Ladies and gentlemen! All the dead who are found have their right to rest in peace. And if every building, where an archaeologically interesting wall is found, takes immediate account of the builder and everything is done to secure these stones, and that is entirely natural, it is of course also natural and an act of piety, an act of responsibility that this is also done in the case of graves and human bones. [[Abg. Wabl: Then why didn't it happen?- Oh, my God!]] Respect for the rest of the dead in this context also testifies to respect for one's own history. We have evidence that there are graves from the Napoleonic era in this room. We also know that in this area a prison camp of the SS has been found for members of the Wehrmacht. We know that after the Second World War, prisoners of war were detained in American prison camps and there was an epidemic there. But we also know – and this makes the whole tomb find a special thing – that through Lambbach the death march of the Hungarian Jews went, where 12,000 Jews were to be driven to one of the last concentration camps of National Socialism, namely to Mauthausen, and where, according to historical testimony, at least 6,000 Jews from Hungary died of a cruel death. We know from the records of history that at Lambach 21 in particular, these unfortunate victims of National Socialism were murdered and buried there. That is, we have a special responsibility to deal with this tomb. I am therefore also pleased that all the political groups in this area have spontaneously reduced daily policy. This is a sign of democratic maturity, that we do not make day-to-day policy here, do not argue, as is often the case in this House, and in no way negative, because opinions often conflict. But when it comes to a basic value, namely respect for the rest of the dead, it would not be understood in this country if one tried to switch from it to political change. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the authorities of the country of Upper Austria hold in the right and the law - as before - that they respect piety and ethics and that we therefore have no reason to assume from the outset that a country that can be proud of its history, that a country that has always accepted and answered the challenges of dealing with history, this time is different. I look forward to things with confidence and believe that this debate is useful here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6607	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6628	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals had originally applied for the topic of Lambach for the current hour, because of the recent developments in this project, namely the discovery of the graves, of course withdrawn this initiative, although we assume that this should also be seen as a sign that it is not ecological and economic reasons which have now put the project to a halt, but that it is a very moral issue. We have always tried to go a way in connection with projects of the power plant builders, which does not paint black and white. After all, all of us have tried together to get away from it since Hainburg, to always play out ecology against economy. The truth lies mostly in between. This also moved us liberals against the opinion of social democracy, against the opinion of the Austrian People's Party, against the opinion of a large building lobby on the ground, against the opinion of industry and the Chamber of Commerce, against the opinion of the ÖDK as a power plant builder, for example the Obere Drau project for many years – in our responsibility as energy referents in the country of Carinthia. We had to listen to some of this at the time, because we were not willing to bend our knees before these lobbyist interests of an insane project, but we have maintained this resistance for many years with the result that, at the time when the construction began in Lambbach, the ÖDK, which once accused us of not wanting this power plant Obere Drau with two other power plants in the Spittal/Drau area, admitted that our arguments are correct that the power plant is not calculated and that the interventions in nature – in relation to the economic realities – would not be justified. This is a project that shows that if politics remains honest with principles and tries to do what all the parties have written in their programmes: to go the way of alternatives and seriously try to co-exist with one another of ecological and economic interests in favour of the population and to ensure the future. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We did that. That is why I do not say here – like one of my previous speakers – that we are without reservation for the expansion of hydropower. I think this is exactly the step back behind Hainburg. This is a policy without If and But, which then has to correct everything once you have realized that you have been wrong. But the sufferers are not the ones who have erred, but the people, especially the youth, who have been cut off a little bit of a future in our common home. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It has therefore already irritated me that the head of state of Upper Austria had us broadcast on television yesterday, that he said in one - more or less - of a promise: We will continue to build from the OKA. We're from the OKA! – This identification of an official with business interests has been rather adventurous, but also defying. In the end, it is a question of carrying out freight balances on each project. Especially at Lambach, this weighting of goods is not carried out correctly. In the case of Lambach, ladies and gentlemen, it is really the case that the struggle against a national society is a priority. One wants to escape access to the compound through electricity supply. In the short term, one wants to mobilise construction contracts to show that one is able to make a job policy rather than looking for alternatives, such as a finished, unimpeded power plant project of SAFE – in which the OKA is also involved 36% – namely in parish throws, to start with 1.2 billion Schilling building volumes and to rethink the controversial Lambach project. There has also been no economic weighting of goods, because in the end, on spot markets today, electricity is being used at a production price of 20 sizes, while production in its own, newly established power plant would cost around 80 sizes. Result: People have to pay this at higher rates! You didn't see all of this. However, due to recent events, there has been a joint decision to demand a stop. I think that's good. But it should not only be the event of the last hours, which might make the current construction stop a permanent construction stop of a project, which is in fact ecologically and economically irresponsible. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finding tombs of war commands us to act in the manner prescribed by the Law of the War, including in the sense of the 1948 Law on the Tombs of War. That is why I am saying this because, in our opinion, it cannot make a difference to what graves, which victims are about which dead people there are. It is the honour of a people of culture to show respect for the dead, all the more so when a war tomb law states that people who have become victims of a criminal regime have the right to be left alone, in peace. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also what has led to this joint decision at the Presidential Conference today, and I hope that this construction stop will be permanent. Because it doesn't seem to me to be very correct that huge areas are immediately locked in each antique fund, but if some graves are discovered, whose dimension cannot be taken out at all, they are locked off with a few plastic loops and if you don't want to let the construction excavators drive by the way. Ladies and gentlemen! If this really happens, then we are all giving a bad witness about dealing with the dead, about dealing with people who have become victims of a terrible regime. Therefore, we have a good reason to say today that our reflections on Lambbach are more than justified. We are in favour of a stop to construction, because the ecological and economic concerns for us have now also added moral reasons why this project should not take place in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6725	Mr Dr Kier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6746	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The report of the Minister of the Interior was clear, sober and precise. Unfortunately, the first two speakers did not seem to include him with the necessary concentration. The Federal Minister has explained to us that, as the responsibility for the enforcement of laws, he believes that the findings so far available are still clear, that further explorations need to be clarified, that surveys must therefore be carried out and that the real extent of what has been found here in part is still unknown in the actual sense of the word. It therefore assumes that it is not sufficient for the construction measures affected by this Fund to be discontinued only in the directly affected area. That was quite clear and precise. – I am therefore actually frightened, as Klubobmann Kostelka in his position behind this position that followed the implementation of the Law from 1948, in so far as he thought there was enough to stop building in the area concerned. I do not think there can be such a restriction – even if the area concerned has not even been demarcated. That is why I think it might have been a misunderstanding. But that's how it sounded to me anyway. The intervention of Klubobmann Khol here has also sounded like this. I have heard from both interventions that, from the point of view of both gentlemen, it could only be a temporary problem. I mean, this is not a post-temporary problem, but one that we can only estimate in its real time, if there is the cure. If the Federal Minister has carried out that this finding in the execution of Mr Landeshuptmann von Oberösterreich as the body finally carrying out the survey on the ground in federal affairs, I would now like to make the request that he not be left alone by the Federal Ministry of the Interior in this matter; that he should not be left alone, that he should not now operate under the third burden from the double burden in which he is already standing, namely at the same time to be the executing body of the country when passing on documents on the affairs of power plants and owners of ÖKA, and that from the double a triple conflict of interest may become: to raise the finding, a finding which can have a significant impact on the further fate of a power plant project. That is why I ask him to release him from this potential multi-load by not leaving him alone. [[Abg. Grossruck: Substance!]] If the word "institution" comes from the banking series here, I would like to say: This is not an assumption, but it is a request to avoid something that may then be claimed. If I have three interests in a person, it may be possible to argue afterwards that one of the three interests has been lacking. This is not an obligation in the position of intent, but it is a fear of the result. This can, in all honesty, be easier to fail, if one is acting in multiple conflicts of interest than if one has no conflict of interest. The Federal Minister for the Interior is free of conflicts of interest from his responsibilities – in my view at least. His report was very clear and clear. I think it can only be done here that we treat with care what is found and treat it with care. My previous speakers, particularly Mr Haider, have put this to the point: It is less so the question of who these dead have been in research, but it is about the fact that from a certain period of time there are dead people who have been forgotten until the beginning of this building. In my opinion, this is an important element, because it appears to be several deaths. If, after as short a time as 50 years, several dead people have already been forgotten that they did not even know that they were buried there, better: they were disturbed, so is what should be thoughtfully voted on. This is exactly what it is all about to do now with calmness, care and care, and not to put it back in practice, that only the construction can continue as quickly as possible – be it even a few meters further to the right, left, front or back. If this were an unquestioned project, this attitude would be inappropriate. But it is not even an indisputable project, even though Mr Khol meant that it was already a state-of-the-art project. – New authorisation procedures are needed at the latest since this find. Does anyone assume that this project can now remain completely unchanged? Does anyone of those who think it must be built assume that this project can now remain completely unchanged, that it will not need new decisions? With respect to the rule of law, it can definitely also mean not to use modest means which cannot be valid at all, because they no longer fit into the project which now needs to be built! It cannot remain unchanged! It would be a clear finding that, if new facts arise, § 69 of the AVG has to take place, that these decisions, although already legally valid, might be re-imposed and that the procedures should be re-rolled. There is the circumstance of piety and the moral obligation that makes us appear to be so - perhaps still accompanied by a very sober legal state finding, namely that because of the modestys that have lost your foundation, one cannot continue to build. I believe that there can be nothing but a construction stop, in general, of all the voluntary and quite equivalent to the rule of law, here. The fact that the rule of law must also be returned to the proceedings means that all that has not been discussed before – the prevention of environmental impact assessment, the avoided participation of the arrants – can now be re-evaluated and that, in particular – and I think this is the most important – the compromise can only be redefined. For a compromise – as already happened – between ecology and economics, it is first necessary to clarify preliminary questions. And one of the preliminary questions in Lambbach would be – regardless of the ecological side –: Is this a reasonable project from an economic point of view – even if there were no ecological problems there? I say to you, with the necessary weight of my decades of consideration of energy questions: Lambach is a child of our corrupt electricity structures. In a normally designed network of electricity in a country of our size, no regional supplier would have the idea of building a power plant of 750 million schilling, a power plant that nobody needs. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] 680 million schilling, but we know very well that it is 750 million when you count the impenetrable. I don't want to argue about numbers. I love 680 million as much as 750 million, 630 million or 710 million. In any case, it is a power plant of this scale, a given power, a certain regularity and an investment volume. And we know that the calculated kilowatt hour would cost 180 grates. It's all known. At the same time, however, it is also clear that it does not fit into the needs and quantities of the Republic of Austria at all, that we do not need to make sense only from the regional point of view of a chauvinist energy politician, who puts Upper Austria above everything. That means, however, careless dealing with popular wealth. We do not need the few kilowatt hours that Lambbach can produce, indeed, at a time when the combined society, which is responsible for trans-regional security, has surplus problems, problems with historical contracts with Hungary, problems with coal contracts in connection with Voitsberg, problems with hydropower in summer that produce more electricity than we need, but at the same time competition with dumping price products from French nuclear power plants and therefore, at best, in summer, 20 to 30 large ones for the surplus stream. Just at this time you want to produce in Lambbach? If you know all this and if you know that only from the local point of view of Mr Pühringer and Mr Windner can make sense of it, because it is completely indifferent to them whether the economic interests of Austria as a whole suffer damage or not. As long as it is of benefit to you only on the spot, as long as such a thing is economically reasonable from the perspective of a head of state Pühringer, we will have such conflicts: this time in Lambach, the next time in another place. That's why I'm saying: If you already have a project of this kind, which has obviously been slying – for many good reasons, even for such reasons, which, regardless of the energy side, are consistent throughout the house, namely moral reasons – you can take out of the dispute by taking two steps back, but not even losing your face, because you can make these steps out of the moral dimension only, then this is quite a positive opportunity. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I just wanted to make it clear here that it is very important to be aware that, if one is doing so, one does not necessarily have to hide the other reason. – Mr Haider, too, has pointed out – and you will certainly be able to understand that if I am not quite sure that he is right, I will not insist on him. That is why I ask you: Take back, too, and try to understand that it has been a failure of this Federal Government for nine years not to start the structural reform of the Austrian electricity industry, but that you may now have a chance - from the outside imposed, admittedly - to think for yourself whether it is fair to think again of a flooring of tomorrow before today's findings are raised. The findings of today are not yet clear. It can easily be that the dimension of what has been found there is greater than any power plant will allow there. In this sense, I really ask you: Make use of this option! A final conclusion: As long as we are not able to listen to such things with calmness and patience from the others – as I am now doing – but to intervene with intervening calls, even though I have made myself ready for an objective tone, you show that it may have been reasonable for only one speaker per group to go out here because you did not want to have a dispute, because you cannot argue: At best, you can cheat. And I'm really, really sorry, because I think: Even if the matter touches the heart, you can remain calm, hard in the argument and still be compatible afterwards. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6799	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6820	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Lambach Kraftwerksprojekt is an intensive discussion about ecological and economic aspects for some time now. And in the last few days and hours, both of these groups have come under the background of the current announcements of the tombs. I actually did not want to go into it, but in the light of the statements made by my previous speakers, there were a few words about it. I've been at the construction site in the resistance camp myself for the last few days. I personally convinced myself that this resistance is completely and absolutely nonviolent. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: illegal!]] However, I have also been convinced that the executive who carries out their duties there is correct and prudent. And I have - this is my personal impression - gained the view that it actually shares in many of the arguments of the critics and expresses this in this prudent behavior. As a project, Lambach is environmentally devastating. It's quite clear: If one had followed the rule of law, Dr. Khol, this project should never be built. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: It's wrong!]] The nature conservation opinion is quite clear: This area is referred to as the most important such eco-system in Upper Austria and rejects the construction of the Lambach reservoir from a nature-protection point of view. Only when dealing with the actually competent decision-makers can one come to such modesty as they exist. There is also no contrast between ecology and economy, because even the economic findings are a clearly negative one. This power plant is exactly at winter time, if electricity could be used, uninterestingly with a very low bottleneck power in winter, with an expensive electricity and, above all, with the resulting displacement competition among Austrian companies, which could thus be less in the European context than if one had a uniform, closed concept. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: 60 to 40!]] And, of course, this money, which is to be invested there, is missing this hundreds of millions of schilling, in other measures, where there is much more energy saving and at the same time the environment could be much more strained. Economic and ecological findings are clear. – But this is not the main subject of my remarks today. We have known for a few days – there were also rumors at the construction site – about these graves. Now it is official, now there are surveys of who the dead were, which group of victims of National Socialism they belong to and how to proceed. If Lambbach were not such a controversial project, I think there would be no doubt in this room that the construction work would have been stopped for a long time. In any "normal case" – under quotation marks – the excavators would have been removed for a long time. Only because it is a controversial project, because Mr. Landeshuptmann has taken a justamental stand, therefore the excavators must continue to work. I do not want to talk about the fact that there are great contradictions, and I do not think it is right, even if we deal with the serious and the ordered piety that we are dealing with, that contrasts are simply passed. The Minister of the Interior has found clear words about what has now happened: He has said that there is a need for a dignified and decent preservation of the graves, and he has also said that the process of the last days – and this is a remarkable statement by the Minister of the Interior – is not compatible with the law. I ask you: What to do? If the Minister of the Interior reports on a non-legislative state of this House, I believe it is up to us to urge the Upper Austrian authorities to bring about a law-compliant state as quickly as possible. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Especially in Austria, as far as the victims of the Nazi terrorist regime are concerned, we must respect a very high standard. We must take the positions of the respective representatives of the victims, and I believe that we are obliged to choose the strictest position, the strictest possible form of interpretation. Since I know what has happened in the last days, was there myself, saw it myself, experienced it, I can also tell you: This has not happened, because on Monday, one has cleared up parts of the occupying stations in knowledge of the graves and also with the safe idea of what graves it might be about. Demonstrants were dragged away. I do not think that this is a procedure consistent with piety and preservation of the rest of the dead. [[Abg. Rosemarie Bauer: Gulasch soup – at the graves?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I also do not believe that it is correct – even if you are still intervening so much – that on Monday, Tuesday and even today construction work was practically carried out in the early days, and that with a local eye-catching with the authorities of the country of Upper Austria and with the support of representatives of the media of the building noise was so loud that one could not understand what was carried out there. This is not compatible with the law. I would urge you from the EIA to speak here also with your colleagues in Upper Austria and, at least in view of this current situation, to give up this legal position, which is illegal in the specific case. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: illegal construction site occupations!]] Construction site clearances with violence, continued dredging work in the immediate vicinity of the graves and an eyelight in which one cannot even understand the interpretations, because the excavators dig all around. In addition, the report by Mr Landeshuptmann, in which he, as a non-competent authority representative, is already very clearly argued in a certain direction, mentioning practically only precedents in which exhumation of the bones found was considered possible. I do not think that it is up to Mr Landeshuptmann at this hour to argue in this direction over the Minister of the Interior and to put it to the fore. For one thing is clear – and I am also right about Mr Kier: It is not likely that you will build a turbine house directly above a gravefield – or even where it was located. That means replanning will be necessary. And this project will not be possible in this form for reasons of the discovery of bones. I believe that the more such a point of law is ended, the better it would be to get back to an orderly procedure. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to remind you that the opposition parties here in Parliament have behaved quite differently from the authorities of the country of Upper Austria. We do not yet know which group of victims the dead belong to. We do not know what kind of representations of interest are to be heard and how to proceed. But it is clear that at the moment the ecological, the economic debate has to come back. We have therefore not made a current hour or an urgent request. First, we want the competent authority, the competent minister, the Minister of the Interior, to be able to take a decision in a calm and appropriate manner, and we trust that he will make a right decision. I believe that the authorities of the country of Upper Austria would be well advised to act as prudently as not to try – now in the light of the graves – to create facts complete with excavators. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens and congratulations of the Abg. May. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] [[16:57]] : No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate due to the presidential decision of this morning, which I felt was a gentleman’s agreement – this expression fell, whereby I also felt gentlemen’s agreement as gentlemen’s agreement – is thus closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kostelka, Mr Khol and Mr Comrades on the maintenance of the rest of the dead. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 2.) Thank you. Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6950	We are now entering into a brief debate on the request of Mr Dr Schmidt, the Committee on Justice for reporting on the application 11/A concerning a federal law amending the criminal law, a period of time until 31. In the case of the United Kingdom, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities. After the end of this debate, the vote on the motion for a resolution will take place. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than five minutes. Mrs Dr Schmidt is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e6984	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to all the discriminations to which homosexuals are exposed in our society, there are three more paragraphs in our criminal law, which also threaten them with punishment, with imprisonment for up to five years for acts which are natural to heterosexuals, with a imprisonment that also contradicts our understanding of the rule of law, of assembly, of freedom of association, because these legal goods are, of course, for heterosexuals, and they are forbidden by homosexuals: One is the so-called advertising ban, the other is the so-called club ban. Then something else comes to mind under the title – and that is only an expression of a particular attitude from the choice of words – of a so-called special age of protection. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] I do not know how often in this House in recent years it has been said to eliminate at least these three paragraphs from the criminal law, how many lip confessions have come from all the groups represented in the House, that this injustice has been eliminated, and how long we have needed to get applications in judicial committees at all. Then there was this one. But then nothing else has been done but attempt to invent or use delay tactics – one must not invent them, the Rules of Procedure gives this opportunity – to set up subcommittees, and that for materials that are actually completely clear to be able to move to the long bank, which one promises otherwise in Sunday's speeches. We're ready now. I say that the decision-making position on these three paragraphs is clear that there are no longer any arguments that need to be repeated somewhere, that there is no need to get experts, because those who have dealt with them have already taken a picture. I therefore ask myself: What is it that prevents us from dealing with some matter at a time when the coalition negotiations are likely to take some time, and therefore we also have time to deal with some of the matter in committee, at a time when we are not under the pressure of time, when a government programme is in place, to eliminate those three paragraphs which not only make people disadvantaged, but rather cause them to have a demonoclesc heavy of the imprisonment, and to free these people from this damocles sword? Our criminal law takes something that I cannot accept as a liberal anyway. It turns out to be a moral watchman. I wonder, What is the need for punishment when it comes to an association of homosexuals? Where is there a need for punishment? Where is a criminal need if a 19-year-old has sexual contact with a 17-year-old, completely voluntary, of course without use of violence? These two people would be, if they were heterosexual, normally recognized in our society. This is nothing but an ideology, I say now, which means that we have to punish abnormals. If that's the case, please tell me. Do not talk about any protection needs, about protecting children. They should know that we have a law on the protection of young people and therefore do not need any special protection beyond that. Don't talk like you wanted to treat people with the same level, but you're actually doing the exact opposite. Then tell me what you mean! Then you also say that this is something abnormal for you, against which society should protect itself, so that people also know what attitude they have to do with when you prevent these three paragraphs from being eliminated from the criminal law. To this end, we call on you to finally leave the ground, this double ground of this shady morale. The editor-in-chief of the press has recently gone to Berlin and has held a song on the "double floor" here in Austria in many areas. The article in the "profile" about the struggle with the free death of an editor to be assigned to the ecclesial realm, on the one hand, on the other, with the free death of a human being who had just chosen a different form of life, shows how he is treated in this society. This is a hypocrisy, but in this case it also leads to the punishment of people who have a different concept of life, who have a different sexual orientation, of this society, with up to five years of abandonment of freedom! We no longer want to let that happen, so we have asked you to finally confess color and until 31. In May this House put forward a draft to put an end to this injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7038	The next speaker was Mrs Fekter. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7060	Mr President. High house! The EIA will not agree to this deadline proposal by the Liberals. [[Abg. Dr. Schmidt: There was nothing else to expect!]] Mrs Schmidt, you have made proposals here. You said in your last statement that we rejected liberalisation because we automatically consider homosexuality to be abnormality. I think you did not pay close attention to it in the Subcommittee, where the experts have commented. There Mrs Rollett, a Vienna development psychologist, has said quite clearly that adults can very well influence the sexual identity development of young people, because the number of homosexuals is relatively low and therefore the probability of seeking young people who have not yet found their identity is high. From this consideration of protection, we reject the withdrawal of the age of protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In § 209, we do not see primary discrimination against homosexuals, but primarily the protection of male young people under 18 years of age. And this protection warrants the maintenance of § 209 in order not to shape the sexual identity of young people by negative experiences. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There is currently a different legal age for girls and boys. I do not want to hide that my personal opinion is that the age of protection for girls aged 14 is too low. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Especially this low age of protection, Mrs. Dr. Schmidt, was given a lot of space in the discussion. That is why we believe that it still takes time for all these things to be really debated. It is not quite clear what you meant here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to give room to this discussion to carry out further discussions, we are in favour of another proposal, namely that this issue should be discussed by no later than 1. ==References====External links== We have made a request on this subject; it will be allocated at the allocation meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7122	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7144	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before Mrs Fekter spoke here, I actually decided to agree to the deadline proposal submitted at the next meeting of SPÖ and ÖVP. In my opinion, I have had to make a radical change in these words by the chairmen of the Committee on Justice. When you sit there and listen, it seems like you were just at the end of the fifties – what do you mean, fifties? The 1930s and 1940s were more advanced than what I think the older Mrs. Dr. Fekter said here; not older than I am, I mean. Ladies and gentlemen! If someone here really believes that it is a sensible way to discuss illegal human rights in Austria, by having the intention – and I have to say this, unfortunately – to criminalise love, namely, those who "pass through" between heterosexual people between 14 and 16 years of age, who are not yet punishable or cannot be punished in Austria, then I was completely indignant. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know what the SPÖ is thinking. There has not yet been a speaker or a speaker speaking. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: I'm already registered!]] Ah, Mr. Dr. Fuhrmann will say that! Which green branch do you want to come to? Do you really want to raise the protection age, the so-called protection age, to 16 years? Do you really want to get married in Austria with 16 and at the same time have the right to have first sexual experiences? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Don't be angry with me, but that's just so weird! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! From the first day since I was a member of the National Council, I've been dealing with these uncanny paragraphs. And every time I have been delegates to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, a colleague or colleague from another country speaks to me in this regard; – and I therefore enjoy my enjoyment for Austria, because, ladies and gentlemen, paragraphs of this kind only exist in countries such as Turkey and Cyprus. And these states are certainly not a standard measure for Austria as far as their sexual moral ideas are concerned. Or do you want that? Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Fekter's words must be broken in his mouth. § 209, the fundamental rights, namely the fundamental right to free development of sexuality, is in your eyes a protection paragraph for male homosexuals. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: For male teenagers under 18 years of age!]] I've never heard such a strange construction! This is a protection paragraph for male homosexuals! Mrs. Dr. Fekter, I just want to give you one advice: Consider your words very carefully once again, because what you are saying here is actually threatening sexual morality, should there be something like this in Austria. For young people are really confused if we continue to deal with a Committee of Justice, like you, in these points where human rights are being trampled on – in the truest sense of the word. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: By your speech!]] I support Mrs Schmidt's request for deadline until 31. I think it is too long in May, but we are relatively generous here and we want to allow proper negotiation in the Committee on Justice to take place in the new GP. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said, and it is precisely you, Mrs. Fekter, Mrs. Universitätsprofessor Dr. Rollett, who has said it most clearly: These paragraphs have nothing to do with protection, but these paragraphs are an expression of a born sexual morality with which I do not want to have anything to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7226	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7247	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It may be quite good if, in this discussion, after three colleagues, a man speaks and tries to get the emotional level back down a bit. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mrs Langthaler and Mrs Stoisits! It wasn't meant to be evil. If you allow me to do so and give me a little of your appreciation, I would like to justify why my group will not agree to this request for a deadline, but the request for a deadline to be submitted at the next sitting – unfortunately, because of the Rules of Procedure – will not go any further on 1 January. November, which, as I hope, will then also receive a majority. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Do you have the impression, that those who are in substance in favour of a positive completion of the requests, and I am referring to those who, like my group, do not also have the impression, even from this brief discussion, that there is a great danger to all those who are behind them, that these applications do not receive a majority in this House at the moment? In the course of the discussion, I have seen very great applause in two political groups, where it has become a matter of content and where there have been arguments that have been used against the applications. And these two political groups have one or two more mandates or votes in the course of a battle vote in this House. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Forum and the Greens! Faith I would also like to point out that it is perhaps better for us to discuss with her and her colleagues and those of the blue group those arguments which Mrs Fekter, among other things, has also made. It is not possible to criminalise a quarter of a million young Austrians, as a result of the discussion of these applications, if we actually do what Mrs Fekter thinks it would be right. I am a hundred percent of the opinion that it is not right to raise this so-called protection age for girls to 16 years now. I believe that most of the Austrian youth would be very "thankful" for this at the National Council. It seems to me that it is necessary to discuss these things again in peace – unemotionalized – so that, as I personally think, the irrational fears of those who are opposed disappear and that the applications can be voted positively. I say again on behalf of my group: I think it would be useful for us to come to this vote – and with 1. In any case, we also have a deadline – that is, we have this issue from the table, because that should be the case now – either way, I hope, in the positive sense. Ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to the leadership of the ÖVPs, but also to those of the FPÖs, to free the Member of this House – be they female or male – from voting according to their conviction. Our clubman, Dr. Kostelka, has already made this proposal. I think that this would be very useful – we obviously need time to discuss things in peace – to get away from this high level of emotionality. I therefore believe that it is a reasonable compromise – as I would have liked – if we had done it with 1. From November to November, pull in the deadline. At the moment, this is not quite a unreasonable compromise from the point of view of the process. I therefore ask you to understand, Mrs Schmidt, that we will not accede to your request, but I invite you, then, to the request concerning 1. In November, too, because you have achieved this – which is in my personal interest and my group – that this House knows then, until then, it must be done, and there is no push, and there is no longer any suspicion – justified or unfounded – that it is only being postponed. ==References== We did this on November of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7308	President. — The debate is closed. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7329	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The matter concerning which the proposal for a time limit has been submitted, which we are discussing, calls for each one to decide according to his own personal idea. I therefore intend to make this brief statement, not on behalf of my group as a whole, but on my own. I would like to remind you: One could gain the impression that it is already about the content of the decision to be made on matter itself, but that is not the case. It is about finally bringing an issue that has been on the "herd" for years to an end, either in one sense or in the other. Each of us has tendencies in one direction or another, but there will also be a lot of things. But if something has long been referred to the House as a matter of concern, then one should sometimes have the courage to decide on it and to say yes or no. It's just about today, not about the content. However, I personally believe that the deadline is 31st. May – perhaps for demonstrational reasons; I cannot imagine that the initiators really believed that this period could be rich – seems somewhat narrow. I personally, however, will be set for five months longer, i.e. until 1. ==References====External links== October – agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7365	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. I ask you to take the seats. Please pay attention. – Mr Scheibner, is it a bit faster? [[Abg. Scheibner: I'm no longer the youngest!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Yeah, you can see. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the request, the Justice Committee for reporting on Amendment 11/A concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, a period of time until 31. In the case of the United Kingdom, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on the interpretation of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The request is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7419	I will now resume the negotiations on points 5 and 6 of the agenda on the promotion of groups in 1993 and 1994. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member. Speaking time not more than 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7443	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Back to the discussion on the two reports of the Federal Government on popular support in 1993 and 1994. We are discussing this a little late, but I should also like to point out, on behalf of my group, that it is these two reports that make it clear once again and show that our state – and I am referring to it as a federal government, countries and, of course, communities – is sustainable and, as I believe, relatively easy to prove, our peoples. With careful study of these reports, it becomes clear that, fortunately, far beyond the official promotion of the ethnic groups, funds from the various ministries are being channelled to the ethnic groups. I can only give you a few examples: For example, the Federal Chancellery supports bilingual kindergartens, political education, journalism, language research, in particular national language groups. The Federal Ministry of Education and Cultural Affairs is supporting measures for cultural activities, educational promotion, intercultural learning and more with additional resources. The Federal Ministry of Youth and Family provides additional resources for multilingual teaching materials, multilingual cultural measures and bilingual learning and working materials. The Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides funds for cultural trips in the interethnic sense and for interethnic activities. The Federal Ministry of Finance provides additional funds for various translation costs as well as living subsidies. The Federal Ministry of Science and Research supports studies, interethnic projects and scientific work with additional means. – And quite similarly, ladies and gentlemen, it is the diverse popular support of the affected states and municipalities. So the groups are basically receiving a multiple amount of funding, which is listed as specific and official, and I believe, here I agree with Dr. Ofner very much, that this is a good thing, that it is very correct that these promotions flow. As evidenced by the documents, all funding will be divided into a total of 145 groups of associations, including 36 Croatian associations, 72 Slovenian associations, 23 Hungarian associations, 7 Czech associations, 3 Slovak associations and 4 associations of Roma and Sinti, i.e. 145 associations, about 90 percent of all clubs registered at the level of the groups. This makes it very clear and, as I think, positive that the existing funding will benefit almost all the members of the population. I must also express my satisfaction at the fact that in 1995 the funding of the groups – as is unfortunately not the case in all areas, but here – was increased by 10 million schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References====External links== Feber, the terrible attack on members of the Roma People's Group in Oberwart – and this can and must be said here today. In this connection, Mrs Stoisits, I can speak to you. I was actually very surprised to be disappointed just a few days before that, when I was able to hear your statements in the media and read in the press what you meant, now a year has passed, and nothing has actually happened after these terrible events. I would like to say that I very much appreciate your commitment to the groups of peoples, but I think that in some areas you are getting over here on a case-by-case basis. If the government offers 30 million schilling to promote groups, then you demand 60 million, if we talk about 50 million schilling, you demand 100 million schilling, or you make the claim in space, because the Greens are now nine years in Parliament, the promotion of groups has been reduced. I mean, that's the wrong way in ethnic group politics. People's policy can and must not be a vehicle for political profiling. This is a much too sensitive area, which I think needs to be addressed with much more serious and much more sense of responsibility. If it is said here that a year ago the Federal Chancellor, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, the President of the State and the President of the National Council and many other high-level politicians were in charge and promised help, but nothing had happened, it is simply an unacceptable and unacceptable claim that I will try to disprove here and now. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, it can be said that at the level of the Federal Chancellor's Office of the People's Advisory Council for Roma and Sinti, it was established and since then it has been working to increase the funding of groups for Roma and Sinti from 2 million schilling to 3.5 million schilling in 1995 that a documentation and culture centre for Roma and Sinti was established, especially from the funding of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the federal states. The Ministry of Social Affairs is engaged in vocational preparation courses for Roma. These courses are offered, performed and also accepted. Vocational training measures are ensured which at least have achieved that no drop-outs have yet been made in the course of professional integrations. The Ministry of Education offers extra-school learning services for Roma children. Two additional teachers were recruited. 40 children are affected. The schooling of these children has improved considerably. None of these children currently have a negative assessment. Today, we are already considering ways to transfer children, who, and I regret to sit in special schools, to normal schooling. The Ministry of Science has supported study projects. At the University of Graz there is a project for the research and writing of the novel, i.e. an attempt to codify the language of the Roma. An alphabetic fable in Roman and German is at work – this with the intention of strengthening and promoting the cultural identity of Roma. But, of course, measures have also been taken for the families of the victims concerned. Immediately after the attack, each family concerned was made available as the first bridge of a not too small amount of money. A fund was set up out of donations, which is mainly made available to the families concerned. I do not want to show individual measures in terms of numbers, but I should like to tell you that the amounts available are considerable. Dear ladies and gentlemen! All these measures shall be implemented in agreement with those concerned. They are done with the aim of improving the Roma's living situation on a sustainable basis. We do not think anything of cosmetic rapid actions, but we have tried to introduce measures that are already taking action, but are part of an entire project. Since the media – and this is what the media likes to carry – it has not happened, I think it is unscrupulous and actually I am sad about it. For looking at the media reports of the last few days in this context, it can be seen that only negative reports have been reported. Ladies and gentlemen! The Republic of Austria has repeatedly and permanently known itself to its peoples. I would like to point out once again that the richness of our culture is characterized by the various influences and originalities. Today, Austria belongs to the people of the Croatians, to those of the Slovenians, to Hungary, to the Czechs and to the Slovaks, as well as to those of the Roma and Sinti. They have all contributed to the Austrian identity and today still bear witness that Austria was once a multi-ethnic state. Our group, the Socialist Group, set up years ago, as you know, an ARGE group in which all the groups of people are involved, and we have been working since it existed to realize a future-oriented group policy, which, as we believe, is particularly appropriate to meet the challenges of the time that result from the membership of Austria in the European Union and the threat of extreme forms of nationalism. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, the Community of European States, is multicultural. That is a fact, a circumstance that is to be accepted. And I think more: We are currently experiencing an ethnic-national earthquake that is changing Europe's political map more than the two world wars have done. The multinational states of Czechoslovakia, the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia have fallen apart. 19 new states have joined them. Many things, I think, point to the fact that ethnically motivated violent conflicts will unfortunately also enter the next century. In today's Europe, in today's 36 states, we have no fewer than 184 national minorities, 184 ethnic groups. The number of families concerned is estimated at over 100 million people. I am therefore saying: The answer, the response to these challenges can only be a dynamic and preventive nation-group policy, accompanied by a clear commitment to ethnic-cultural diversity, accompanied by a move to overcome ethnic borders and border lines and a commitment to multilingualism. All of this, borne by tolerance and mutual understanding, should actually be an important contribution to forward-looking popular policy. We Socialists will continue to work on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by the two clubmen Kostelka and Khol during the last legislative period. We will try to upgrade the work of the People's Advisory Councils. We will endeavour to set up a conference of the People's Advisory Council, and we will also endeavour to establish a state target in favour of the ethnic groups. In this sense, I may invite you in the XX. The legislative period together with us to form a progressive and Europe-oriented group policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7556	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7577	Mr President. Dear, empty government bank! Now, if I keep my remarks very short, may this not be misunderstood as a minor consideration of the importance of this issue – quite the contrary – but I think we have already had some very essential things to deal with today. It has already been said a lot; I do not want to repeat it. First of all: The report before us is in the final effect a bookkeeping list of contributions that will certainly have their accuracy. In itself, there is nothing against the content, even if I am speaking here as a counter speaker and we are not going to give this report the approval, then for one reason: We note that this report on the promotion of groups of people is something that is not enough for us from its depth. We would like to see these national reports not only now contain this list of figures – who has got something, which association, which group, how much on Schilling and Groschen – but it would be important to us, perhaps not every year, but perhaps every two years, to receive a report that actually dealt with the social, cultural, perhaps also political and social situation and the living conditions of our peoples, a report that could thus be a basis for discussion of the Austrian People's Group Policy, and in this way also enabled in Parliament, but also, indeed, a planned approach in terms of ethnic groups policy. Therefore, if we vote against it today – it is, I believe, the first time – this is happening in order to give some emphasis to this suggestion, which I have already made in the Constitutional Committee. I think it is important that we bring more political, social and cultural sensitivity and more human rights perspective into the people's question just about a year ago. That is the essential thing to say here, and I believe that it is not just a question of means, how we deal with our peoples, how we treat them in our Austrian society, in this Republic, and how we want to improve their living conditions. I believe that the whole of the political instruments must be reconsidered. This also refers to the advisory committees, which are now almost all installed – after a very difficult process that is almost decades long. Nevertheless, I think there are some things that we have to criticise. First of all, it was not only criticised when it came to promoting the right of previous speakers that some of the party's funding went into a People's Wall here and in this way was withdrawn from the ethnic groups, for which I do not understand, but where I believe that the party's financing, in the sense of fully justified financing, should be carried out. It may be that the municipal political association of the ÖVP in the Burgenland is also an ethnic matter in relation to the Croats, but essentially it is an EIA matter, and I would, Mr Khol, think that it is not bad for the EIA if it said: We do not want to reduce these funds for groups of people and therefore leave this purely party-political level of funding. The same applies, of course, to the corresponding SPÖ association – in order not to be unfair here. Ofner pointed this out. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: "Always the loudest has the untruthed one displeased!" – Werner Bergengruen!]] Dear colleague Khol! I think we should leave these games behind, and perhaps really together we should leave these old moves of the Party State behind us. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That has nothing to do with it!]] Let's do it! Let's not say, the other one just doesn't do it without a chance. That's a popular game, that doesn't make sense. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It's a shame that Karel Smolle is no longer here! He understands this very well!]] Yes, Karel Smolle understands this very well, and he is one who also points out that it is pointless and negative if resources that should serve cultural or other activities of popular work are withdrawn from the groups and entered into party groups. [[Abg. Wormitzer: But he is looking for a stronger partner again!]] [[Abg. Wormitzer: The previous one was too weak!]] Go in and change! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Secondly, It is when you look at the national councils, but it is so that the parties play a role not only in the promotion, but also in the occupation. I do not want to go into that in detail now, but one hears so strange things that at one time the parties try to send their representatives from social associations to the national councils, so that at the end of the day these are dominated to a significant percentage of party politics. I believe that this too should be considered, and I believe that the representatives of the national groups should be those who essentially carry the advisory committees. Third point I would like to address – a subject that we should address – is the constitutionally fragmented situation of the protection of our ethnic groups and minorities. I believe that we should not rely on the State Treaty, but rather, from our fundamental right understanding, we should, in the context of fundamental rights reform, anchor the people's group and human rights, which relate to ethnicity, in our federal constitution, not in an international treaty, which always has the smell that it actually needs external pressure to anchor fundamental rights for the ethnic groups in Austria. Last point, Mr Khol: Today, we have dealt with a subject that is important to Europe, and I believe that we should do everything we can to ensure that people's groups and fundamental rights are protected at European level as well. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] The Council of Europe has set up an initiative to this end. Mr Stoisits also wanted to push forward these things and has tabled a resolution on this subject, which will receive general support. I believe that it should be an important goal for us Austrians to anchor a European People's Group right at European level and thus help to break through this political, social and cultural need throughout Europe. These are all things that are related to and of importance to the People's Group Policy, and I would be pleased if we could discuss in the next few years on the basis of a report that is actually a major focus on the political and social problems of our peoples. That's what I wish. The report to be discussed today is a collection of figures, which is too little for us. That is why we do not take notice of him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7693	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7714	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The present 1993/94 report on the promotion of groups of peoples can be agreed with the observation that the Council's plans on desirable support measures will be more sensitive in future in order to ensure the security and conservation of the groups in Austria. We have also – and this has already been mentioned – addressed the ratification of the European Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages and the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. We shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution today. However, this alone will not be enough; we must not go into the agenda for a long time on the issue of minorities. In the next few days, there will be a large People's Group Congress. A year after the terrible attack in Oberwart, the promises made by German Chancellor Vrannitzky and Minister of Art Scholten to the locals were not yet realized. On site, an improvement of infrastructure was promised – in terms of road construction, water supply and much more – but was not kept. The criminals who have committed the attack have still not been found, there is only a crime tour. Citation of Mayor Racz: Nothing expected of the big politics and nothing to get – let alone how the widow and the children are going there. I believe that a survey, an investigation and a five-month training on labour market services do not help or support much of the living situation of these people there, even more to encourage the division of the population there. On the activities of individual representatives of the ethnic groups: I believe that the temptation not to bring together and yet to develop common things is, in my opinion, even – and we have heard this more recently – on the back of the minorities to try to make policy to profile themselves, is very dangerous, especially since the opinions of the different groups and their representations differ and we would need consensus and listening. However, I also believe that the merger can not only be done through the integration of minorities, through a policy on ethnic groups, because – and I have also talked about it with a constitutional jury – it is certainly not possible to agree who 'fits' these chambers. I believe that the way is rather through the democratic parties in the countries and the federal states. At least in the ÖVP there are good examples – I name only the ÖVP Burgenland and Carinthia. On the current legal situation, the ethnic groups, in particular the People's Group Centre – my colleague Stoisits listens very well – are criticised by the fact that there is no effective overall Austrian representative body of all groups. The year-on-year amendment proposal presented by the EIA provides for the establishment of a permanent conference of the Advisory Council Chairmen and their alternates. In addition, respect for minority languages in certain areas of official bureaucracy should also be incorporated into this innovation. On the other hand, it is our top priority to establish and establish a state target on the protection and promotion of the Austrian peoples and their families. I believe that this very intention is a commitment to safeguarding the interests of our peoples. Most states go far beyond a certain minimum standard for good reason, and we, in particular the people's functionaries, sometimes have differences between the people who live in groups and those who represent them, do well to implement all these ideas, but also these desires in such a way that they are also portable for all: for the benefit of minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7768	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, Madam Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7789	Dobar then, poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! All the newspapers in Austria apparently write the untruth, the ORF reports exclusively untrue – both television and radio – the foreign media report exclusively untrue: I have the impression that Mr. Dr. Antoni is suffering a bit of persecution! He cannot escape the fact that there are pictures that show the truth. Only yesterday at 22.30 a.m. there was a half hour report in the series "Am Schauplatz" about the Roma settlement in Oberwart – there are also video recordings, Mr. Klubobmann Khol, I saw it at 2 a.m. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: There we were in plenary!]] It seems that Mr Antoni did not see this, but his social democratic agitator, who tells him what he probably does not know himself, gives him more faith. Nothing of that, ladies and gentlemen, what last year with a affected face – with honestly affected face! – it has been implemented by top representatives of the Republic. Very banal, very simple wishes such as a telephone cell near the Roma settlement, ladies and gentlemen, have still not been fulfilled. One year has passed, the Upper Guards Roma wanted a telephone cabin near their settlement, and there is still no such thing. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not talking about the fact that no cubic meter of mortar has yet been invested in the renovation of the settlement, that no meter of road is asphalted. There is the strong desire of the inhabitants of the settlement that the forest be rowed behind the settlement. The subjective sense of security would rise if the dark forest did not begin behind it. – Nothing, ladies and gentlemen, has happened! That's the other side of the truth. It is true, Mr Antoni, that 1.5 million Schilling has been used for the documentation and cultural centre for Roma in Austria in Vienna. But those who actually, in the truest sense of the word, live on the edge of society in the upper hand, have nothing of the 1.5 million who have been put into an still imaginary documentation center that I support as such in the matter. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Those who have ever been there and those who, unlike Dr. Antoni, read a little newspaper – Mrs. Steibl does, she has also noted that – know that this is partly about white misery, and that one is not only concerned with the terrible attack in Oberwart, when one sees it, but as a citizen and a citizen, and only quite rightly as a responsible politician or politician in that country. That is what must be said! And everyone, my dear colleague, Antoni, who doesn't do that, who beautifys, goes along with it when a situation like this is prolonged. That's what should be said now. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens are the last to stand out for cosmetic measures only. It's not about cosmetics! We are concerned – I have this here, I am already the sixth member of the National Council, so often said – to see these things in principle and to bring those who live on the edge of society into the middle of society, because that is the most effective protection for minorities – the word alone already has the number of inferiority in it. The majority can always pass over the minority, nothing easier than that. That is why it is the obligation of politicians to carry out an investigation that will increase sensitivity to the fact that the awareness of fighting for minority rights is a matter of the majority, and that this is not left to the group which is without discrimination, even apart, as we now know as Austrians. The Roma in Oberwart, ladies and gentlemen, have always been tolerated, they have always been accepted – as long as they have not been criticized as long as they have lived on the outskirts of the place in a quickly and badly built settlement, as long as they have nothing to do with them. Yes, of course they have been tolerated! – This is not about tolerance. It is about the majority having to take responsibility for the problems, for concerns and also for the rights of the minority. This should be the substance of our policy here. I hear – and this for the time being – that there are politicians who want to profile – today this expression has also fallen again – at the expense of attacks, murders and attacks. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! When, if not, if such terrible events have happened, are politicians, politicians and parties invited to act and, of course, to exercise influence and act, depending on what is in the power of the individual? Ladies and gentlemen! As a minority speaker, as a group member, I would like to act here, for example, in place of Mr Schlögl's Secretary of State, who has the power to take action. He is a politician in the executive, where action should be taken. It cannot be referred to as the proficiency of opposition politicians if they practice criticism of non-acting and inactivity! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing – and this has nothing to do with the murders of Oberwart – has always bothered me in the debate on minority policy in Austria: that one makes the natural thing special, that one says: There are bilingual kindergartens that are promoted in Carinthia, which does not seem to appear in our report; this is also a wonderful achievement. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Logically, that bilingualism is more complicated, more expensive and more demanding than mere inconsistency – I have already said this countless times here. I have a motto for my work as a minority speaker and as a Croatian – perhaps the new colleagues should remember this –: Consensuality is curable, bilinguality is more. We minority members have something ahead of you, that is to say, this great treasure, in two cultures, to be in two languages. My home is Croatian and German, and the home of the Roma in Oberwart and in Vienna should be Roman and German. But the majority with their power instruments and their repression mechanisms have managed to make these people homeless over the last decades, because their language novel they no longer speak. This is not a self-debted fate of the Roma, but it is the pure, factual exercise of power of the majority. I don't want to make anyone a bad conscience here, because many people in Austria don't even know that, but I want to draw attention to those who are now promoting – and thank God is being encouraged – that they don't go out and be promised that they can't make people – in the upper hand of 350 people only 19 from the National Socialists' Centre – come back to the charge that we now have to spend money on them, because we're making a fable. Yes, if this is no longer a matter of course, ladies and gentlemen, that reparation is also made in this form, you can all stop making minority policy. The language is the root of the survival of each ethnic group. The language is the characteristic of identification, and by maintaining and promoting the language, the population population can be secured, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to refer to the two motions for resolutions tabled here today: All the minority speakers of the individual political groups, including Dr. Schwimmer and Peter Schieder, who are the Heads of Delegation and the leaders of the political groups in the Council of Europe, have – and I would like to thank them very much – contributed or supported this motion for a resolution which I have tabled here, so that at last, what I think is a real embarrassment, the Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages, which has been in the Council of Europe since 1992, and the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities is ratified this year. I do not want to discuss why this has not happened yet, but I am glad that it is now ready. This is also a gradual improvement of our international reputation as a country that cares for national minorities in the state. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! My second motion for a resolution deals with the real subject of today's debate, namely the money for minorities. I would like to stress once again what Mr Ofner said at the beginning. I find it very strange how a law, which says that an annual report on the promotions is to be issued, is being handled. Today we have the 31st. January 1996 and talk about the funding report, which would actually be issued annually, of 1993. The report has now been sent to the National Council in January. I would ask you, Mr State Secretary, and the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Chancellor's Office, to administer this, to place a little more emphasis in the future on the fact that this does not happen for three years afterwards, but also a State Secretary and the competent department should comply with the laws which speak of an annual report. I understand every year that in a few months we should actually discuss the 1995 report. But I think you yourself are ashamed of this delay of time, and I think that this will soon be the case. Ladies and gentlemen! People's promotion has increased considerably in recent years. And whether you think that has to do with the fact that the Greens are represented in the National Council or not, that remains yours. In any case, the fact is: Since there is a minority mandate in the Greens, it is strange – perhaps by chance, but still – that there is also minority speakers in other parties, also an interest and also a certain conversation culture and contact person that I feel is very positive. I am pleased to see this as a green Member. My predecessor in this function has already done considerable things here. The funds available to the ethnic groups under the Volksgruppe Act are constantly increasing. That is why I am a little surprised at the statement I have read by the minority speaker of the ÖVP, although she did not say it that way here. The newspaper said that she felt that the funds should remain the same. On the basis of the low approach, I believe that the opposite should be the case, that the funds should be increased considerably so that we can move at European level too. For it is now so clever and so in Austria that we should always say that we should come at European level. As far as the promotion of groups is concerned, we are absolutely not at European level. That is why I put it next This is something that we are not yet at European level, but it would be a great improvement and, for example, in relation to what would be necessary to cover the demands and requests for projects which are now being put in place in the advisory committees set up by all the groups. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few more words about something that upsets me every year. Mr Schlögl has gratefully promised my colleague, Mr Voggenhuber, to the Constitutional Committee that he will now take care of it and finally put it off. This was not the minority speaker of the Greens, but that is something that Federal Chancellor Dr. Vrannitzky wrote to me in a request from July last year. Yes, he must take note of that. Ladies and gentlemen! In reply to Mr Bundeskanzler's question, for the 1994 funding year, the Bureau of the Croatian and mixed-linguistic mandates of the Burgenland, an organisation of SPÖ's mandates, had been paid to cover rental costs of 147 700 S. These costs have actually been paid, namely the social democratic community association Burgenland, namely the municipalities Siegendorf, Stinazz and Oslip, and they have also been invoiced by transport companies. So the social democratic community association! If this is not the purest party funding, I wonder what party funding is otherwise. The money from the pot People's Group Funding flows directly to the social-democratic community representatives who – and you have to know that – have their office in the house of the SPÖ-Burgenland, Johann Permayer-Straße. The money thus flows directly from the Volksgruppenkasse to the SPÖ cash register. Ladies and gentlemen! And – they are even more insolent than one would suspect – for the use of the telephone, the Bureau transfers the money directly to the SPÖ-Burgenland! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am the last one who would be against it if bilingual community representatives were also involved in minority politics. But that you simply transfer the money to the SPÖ cash register – ladies and gentlemen from the ÖVP, delighted [[Abg. Wormitzer: You have agreed!]] They're not too early, there's similar embarrassments with the ÖVP – that's probably a little too far. But I am glad that the dedicated, relatively new Secretary of State will not accept these very gratifying things. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem of party financing is causing very special blossoms in Austria. There the parties get money for popular promotion and then they are not even able to spend this money for it. That's what I really think is scandalous. It is true that the SPÖ mandaters were given money for the promotion of groups, which they then had to repay a year later, because they did not spend it. That is exactly the amount, namely the 179 000 S, but has fallen back into the budget. There are not, for example, dedicated bilingual projects, whether they have been promoted in Burgenland, Vienna or Carinthia, but the inadvertentness of social-democratic municipal mandates has led to the exclusion of this money from the people's group. That's what I'm talking about. But so that the ÖVP doesn't get away completely unscathed either: In 1993, the ÖVP politicians managed to use 99.7 percent for office equipment and office materials, i.e. only 0.3 percent for projects, cultural activities, bilingual publications or whatever would be useful. This is also Austrian reality. But, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time I am optimistic and hope that this belongs to the past.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7923	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Stoisits are sufficiently supported. They will be involved in the negotiations. Next, Mr. State Secretary Mag. Schlögl in word. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e7947	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Stoisits! In the short term, I would just like to comment on three points. First: I believe that it is wrong to claim that nothing has happened in the past few years in respect of the promotion of groups. The opposite is the case. I believe that there has been a real radical rethinking and that many additional measures have been put in place that have been unthinkable a few years ago. A great deal has been done, especially in financial terms. If you propose an initiative here today and say that you want to increase this funding to 100 million schilling within three years, within a short period of time, in order to reach some extent the European level, I must tell you that the Republic of Austria is already spending much more than 100 million schilling on it. In 1993, the Federal Chancellery spent some 36 million schillings. In 1995 it was well over 52 million schilling. The funds were thus significantly increased. In addition, all other ministries except the Federal Chancellor's Office in 1993 – this number is available to me – spent around 137 million schilling on various measures. And in 1994 countries spent over 90 million schillings on various funding measures. That is, when I calculate this, I come to an amount significantly higher than that required by you in this proposal for an initiative. The second thing, which is very important to me, is that, of course, in all the funding, we have to critically check whether the purpose of the aid is actually being fulfilled. And not only should this be limited to the two organizations you mentioned here, but we should look more closely at all those who come into the enjoyment of promotions. I question whether it really is in the sense of the ethnic groups if only Tanburica groups or the like are promoted. That is to say, in this case, the groups of peoples – not against them – should be put together and jointly analysed and checked in what area the promotion is important and necessary, and see that, even more targeted than it has been in the past, concrete projects that support the groups, their work and their interests, and not things that have become the tradition, that is, of course. I am no doubt there with Mr Ofner, if he believes that the real purpose of popular promotion should not necessarily be church promotions or organ promotions. I would like to be prepared to discuss with the groups, but not with the groups. Since some Members are also members of the various advisory committees, I am convinced that we will be able to do so in the next few days. Finally – and this seems to me to be very important – on the question of the report. It was not true that the 1993 report did not come to Parliament until January 1996, but it certainly came to Parliament late. This has its cause in the Federal Chancellor's Office for Workers' Change. But both the 1993 report and the 1994 report were transmitted to Parliament in the middle of 1995. However, as a result of the resolution of the National Council and the new elections, it was only possible to deal with it today. That is to say, the report was transmitted not in 1996, but in mid-1995, i.e. half a year earlier. Nevertheless, I promise that the 1995 People's Funding Report will be sent to Parliament in a timely manner, i.e. in the middle of 1996. Finally, I would like to say: I do not think we should now try to beat political capital out of the events that happened a year ago in Oberwart, neither on my side nor on the side of any political party. But without a doubt, some things have happened in this one year: The Roma Advisory Council was set up, and the funding for the Roma was significantly increased, from 2 million to almost 4 million schilling. There have been a number of important projects in the field of vocational training which have been very well started. In contrast to other actions, the people who have participated in this vocational training campaign, supported by the AMS, remain until the end, so there has been no drop-out quota. The schooling of the children from Roma families in Oberwart was very bad, even the schooling performance was very bad. A significant improvement has been achieved in the shortest time through targeted support measures. There are also a number of other measures. The head of state of the Burgenland and the Burgenland government are currently working on a housing special programme for the Roma. I believe that this is also very important and will be decided by the end of this year at the latest. So that means you can do more and more. Nevertheless, I am very happy and satisfied with what has happened so far. I can assure you that this is not about short-term success, but about measures that will lead to Roma being integrated in the long term. In this sense, I would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken so far. I will try to put some of your suggestions and wishes into practice in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8004	President. — The debate is closed. Please, honourable Member. Speaking time up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8026	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very carefully to the discussion on the promotion of groups, I can identify with many of what my previous speakers have said, and I would just like to make a few brief comments, especially because the Secretary of State has preceded much of what I wanted to address. It seems to me that the honourable Member's suggestion seems to me to be a fresh beater. I must say that even when reading the People's Group Report, I sometimes did not feel quite well, because I only saw a taxative list of numbers in front of me. His suggestion to present a People's Group Report in a potentially two-year rhythm which deals with the situation of the ethnic groups, the perspectives of the ethnic groups and, of course, the integration of the ethnic groups into the majority population seems to me to be useful and personally supported by me. I believe that we would do more for the groups of peoples what we ultimately want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I agree with Mr Steibl and Mr Antoni when she criticises Mr Stoisits on the grounds of her presentation. I too have a lot to say about this, simply because, as a citizen, I have a very personal close relationship with all that concerns groups of people. For example, she says permanently in Burgenland – somehow it poisons me that she says that I have never corrected her, but today I have to get rid of it – I, Terezija Stoisits, am the only Member of the National Council who belongs to a minority. This against better knowledge. Next to her is Paul Kiss, who belongs to the Hungarian minority. My mother tongue is Hungarian, but what is it? For the second. I know that the parable of the fox, to which the grapes are "too sour", has to be applied to the greens in general and on Stoisits in particular. It poisons them that the Greens do not arrive at promotions that come from the pot of the peoples. And in principle, it underlies the ÖVP and SPÖ, i.e. the Bureau and the ARGE, they would, for whatever reason, abstain money from the national group in order to enrich themselves in order to carry out classical party financing. It's not like that. In fact, there are responsible local politicians in both political parties who are willing to work together in their leisure time with people working in other organisations, to develop perspectives, to foresee developments, and to take action to improve the lot of the ethnic groups. That is the truth, that is exactly what it is all about, Mr Ofner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it were the case, as Mr Stoisits said, that it was she or the Greens who would have contributed to the fact that the promotion of the ethnic groups was almost an astronomical one, then I must say that it is not true. Yes, it is true that when I came to the National Council, the funding of the groups amounted to 4 million schillings per anno. In the meantime, it is a multiple amount, but not because the greens are inside, not because Mr Stoisits is in there. I would just like to remind them politely: The ÖVP in Burgenland, for example a Karall, has already adopted the theme of the ethnic groups, the problem of minorities at a time when the Greens have not yet existed. That was in the fifties and in the 1960s. That has been our living self-understanding for popular development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even so far it cannot be with the identity of the citizens of Burgenland, once again relating only to the Burgenland, with what the Greens are constantly calling for ultimate. I just call the results of the last National Council election. Unfortunately, the results of the last National Council election are not only very far into the basement for the Greens, but in the Burgenland they are in particular marched down. In the communities where there are Croatian, Hungarian or Roma and Sinti citizens – this is something special! – the greens have been shredded in the basement as far as they have never been. In my hometown they are now just over one percent, in Oberwart they are 1.2 percent, and in Großwarasdorf, the centre of the Croatians, they are less than one percent. That's green people's group policy? So great, colleague Stoisits, can't be what the Stoisits do for the Greens in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of the ethnic groups, and we feel it, is in today. It wasn't always like that. We register that we are all sensitized. It is important to us to have groups of peoples, it is important for us to feel, imagine, breathe the diversity in this country. If the National Council of this Republic continues to follow this path, not only to obey the sluggish Mammon, but also to establish the positioning of the content for the ethnic groups, then, I believe, this country goes a good way in the united Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8109	The honourable Member is hereby informed of the matter. Chief. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor. Equally: Speaking time up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8130	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current reports of the Federal Government III-6 and III-7 of the Supplements to the promotion of the groups are really something that cannot be described as the last one to be of up-to-date. The Secretary of State has certainly correctly stated that not only he and his departments are guilty, but there have also been other circumstances which have led us to discuss the two reports only today. But as a member of the Advisory Council of the Slovenian People's Group, I would like to say one thing here as well: I believe that the groups themselves have some delays, because at least as far as the Slovenian peoples are concerned, I have remembered a number of times where the documents of supported associations, with which we could at last draw up the accounts and make a report on the promotions made in the appropriate form, were not and were not to be taught. That is why I am quite right, Mr Commissioner, when he says that those who are not inside the Advisory Boards themselves and therefore do not know what fierce distribution struggles have taken place for each and every one of these promotion measures in the Advisory Boards, in what a scarce, balanced form these allocations have often been made, will certainly not be done with the reports alone. At the beginning of today's debate, Mr Ofner has made a great deal of progress from a free point of view, which I do not want to repeat here again. I would, however, like to deal with the comments made by Mr Kiss, who spoke before me. I think we have made some careful progress in recent years – in all areas of minorities. The set-up councils are quite a good sign of this – even in the areas of the Sinti and Roma – that you finally – even under the impression of the terrible events of the Supreme Guard of the previous year – got out of anonymity and entered the advisory boards and that the resentments to act publicly here and also to the public stand in the background today. Nevertheless, I do believe that a great deal of improvement in the field of minority support – this concerns all the parties here in plenary – is worthy of improvement. Mr Kiss! But forgive me one: I also do not think that we can so easily overlook non-chalance as to the fact that some association is considered to be more obvious in the sense of the national political groups because of its name, its locality, where it is located, but I believe that the cross-links to party promotions, when the money flows are actually realized, are sometimes the names of the associations here in this report. This will not be transparent for the subtle know-how of the minority until it controls the identity of the officials and the flow of money. In fact, such a thing must be referred to as the abuse of the promotion of minorities in the classical sense. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If we postulate caution in this area, Mr Kiss, we should also put it more in the field of party policy. I do not want to make it so easy to say that, as one who is not required in this area and is not subject to temptation, one can speak differently here at the speaker's desk than one who has been involved with organizations in the field for 10, 20 or 30 years and has therefore been caught up in the corruption effect of the facsimile. I also believe that we liberals may well point out that we have a number of minority members in Carinthia, that we fill out the municipal council mandates and that, if I am properly informed, we have a member of the Sinti and Roma peoples' group who are in Vienna County Council. We could therefore be in the field of party-political corruption, but we did not exploit it. We have not established any association of the Windian and Slovenian municipal councils in Carinthia, in order to make good the promotions according to the proven example. I think it would be a good thing for the two major parties to reconsider the care of the use of the resources of minorities and, if necessary, to revise their way of doing so, because what has been done so far is certainly not always the promotion of minorities. For example, in the area of the Church, it is not a promotion of minorities if the renovation of organs, altars or buildings, which are protected by the monument, which should actually be financed by other pots of this Republic, is financed under the title of minority funding. However, I would also like to deal with another problem raised in this report, which has become apparent in the last few days and weeks, namely the school of the school sisters in the Rosental. It is an HBLA, which was set up in the former three-year household school about a year and a half ago and ends with Matura. More than 50 percent of school participants come from neighbouring Slovenia – the problem is that the Matura certificates from Austria are not recognized in Slovenia. I think we need urgent action in this regard. The Minister of Education and the Foreign Minister should also work to ensure that the matura certificates acquired in Austria in minority schools are recognised not only in Austria, but also in neighbouring Slovenia, in order to enable them to study on the basis of a HBLA training in Austria in Slovenia. For we are already wondering what sense it makes that more than half of the students in these schools from neighbouring countries come to us in Austria, at the expense of the Austrian State, these minority schools take advantage of us, but then have limited opportunities of training in our own country. I therefore believe that this problem should be discussed rapidly bilaterally between Slovenia and Austria. The aim must be that these Matura certificates from Carinthia should also be recognized beyond the Karawanken. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A problem has been completely resolved here today – that is not a coincidence for me as a member of the Freedom Party – that of the broadcasting of minorities. We know that we have a working world in Austria, we know that in the field of autochthonic minorities there are no high schools and in some cases no secondary vocational education schools in certain spectras, and we are not able to finally help the monopoly radio of Austrian broadcasting its own minority wave through Austria. And I believe that this is not really the case anymore. Because what Radio Blue Danube or Radio International is worth to us for Austrians abroad or Austrian fans abroad should actually be worth contacting the non-individual minority members with the problems and with the cultural programmes of their minority. There are still two Austrian-wide open-ended frequencies that would certainly offer themselves for such a wave of minorities. Who else, if not the state radio ORF with its monopoly and its mission would need action in this area!Unknown term type: "%s".? It is always unsatisfying for me that the ORF is devoting itself to this classical task of a monopolist and is trying to shift it to the free market. I think if the ORF has the monopoly, it needs more action in this area than in other areas. And I believe that negotiations with the ORF must be conducted with more hardness and with more enforcement than it has been in the last three years, because a wave of minorities for Austria would be a supreme commandment of time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is not all right in the field of minority promotion. We have taken small steps, we have also taken small steps in the discussion culture on this issue here in the House. That is good, and I hope that this development will continue in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8216	There is no more word message. I therefore conclude the debate. I ask the rapporteur whether she wishes a final word. - That's not the case. Please, ladies and gentlemen, take the seats, because we have some votes to take. I shall vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of the report by the Federal Government on the promotion of groups in 1994 (III-6 of the supplements). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. . This report is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Constitutional Committee to take note of the report by the Federal Government on the promotion of groups in 1993 (III-7 of the supplements). Those who give their consent to this report may show this by means of a corresponding sign. This report has also been adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Stoisits, Dr. Antoni, Ridi Steibl, Dr. Ofner, Dr. Frischenschlager and comrades on the ratification of the European Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages and the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. This request has been adopted unanimously. (E 3.) I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits and comrades on increasing the promotion of groups to 100 million schilling. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-01-31-020-XX-NRSITZ-00005_d7e8301	I declare that in today's sitting, the self-employed were brought forward by 39/A(E) to 99/A. Question No 43/J to 65/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, which serves the business communication and assignment, will be convened at 6.33 p.m. – that is, following this meeting. The meeting is closed.
