ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2921	I can ask you to take the seats, welcome all the ladies and gentlemen and open the 20th. A meeting of the National Council, which was convened in due time by more than one fifth of the Members on account of a business orderly request. ==References====External links== Meeting of 26. April 1996 has remained inconsistencies and inconsistencies. Deputies Haigermoser, Dr. Novotny, Mag. Firlinger, Dr. Moser, Dr. Haselsteiner, Eder, Dr. Karlsson and Perfuss. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e2955	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Deputy Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselwill represent Dr. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, Federal Minister of State Defense Dr. Werner Fassleven by Federal Minister Dr. Caspar Einmund Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Wilhelm Moltererby Federal Minister Dr. Christa Krammer. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3003	I now ask the author, Mrs Reitsamer, to read the two entries.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3018	"To the President of the National Council I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany on 23 March. In April 1996, the accompanying resolution on the transfer of certain matters belonging to the Federal Chancellor's Office to its own Federal Minister in accordance with Article 77(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act has been adopted. ==References== April 1996 Vranitzky" "Development of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with which the objective management of certain matters belonging to the Federal Chancellor's Office is transferred to his own Federal Minister (1) By way of derogation. Paragraph 77 3 B-VG I am handing over to the Federal Minister at the Federal Chancellor's Office Dr. Helga Conraddie on the subject of the head of the Federal Chancellor's Office. coordination in women's policy matters, Cases of the Equal Treatment Commission and Advocate for Equal Opportunities, Cases of the Federal Equal Treatment Commission and the Interministerial Working Group on Equal Opportunities (BGBl. No. 100/1993), (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to personnel management and organisation tasks. (3) Paragraph 1 shall also not apply to matters reserved to the Federal Chancellor by federal constitutional law. ==References== April 1996 The President of the Federal Republic of Germany: Dr. Klestill The Federal Chancellor: Dr. Vrnitzky"
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3080	I would like to thank the rapporteur and ask him to take note of the matter. As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3165	The following template has also been received: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Norway on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income and wealth taxation (46 of the supplements). In agreement with the members of the President's Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on the agenda of one of the next meetings. Is there any contradiction in this case? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing this. We are now going into the agenda. Time limits for speaking time
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3201	With regard to the design and duration of the debates on the entire agenda, a 10 "Vienna hour" block speaking time was agreed at the President's Conference, so that the following speeches were made: SPÖ 150 minutes, ÖVP 140 minutes, Free 130 minutes as well as liberal forum and greens per 90 minutes. It has also been stated that the first speaker of each political group should not be longer than 30 minutes, nor should other speakers speak for more than 10 minutes. Consensus has been reached on these proposals. I also ask here: Is there any objection? - That's not the case. That is why it is decided. 1. Point Declarations by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on economic and employment policies of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3235	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item: Declarations by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on economic and employment policies of the Federal Government. Following these statements, a debate will take place within the meaning of Rule 81 of the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the 1990s, the global economic environment changed significantly. The strong economic downturn in 1992/93, the internationally flattened growth and, above all, the emergence of new, very strong competitors on world markets have put virtually all industrialized countries in difficulty and led to a strong increase in unemployment. In Switzerland, unemployment rose from 0.5 percent to 4.7 percent between 1990 and 1995, in Germany by almost 3 percentage points from 6.9 percent to 9.6 percent, in Spain from 17.3 percent to 24.2 percent, and in Sweden from 1.4 percent to 8 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Austria could not completely escape this international development either. Austria has, however, succeeded in keeping growth significantly higher and unemployment growth significantly lower during this period of time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] According to OECD Statistics 1995, only Japan, Luxembourg and Austria have succeeded in keeping the unemployment rate below 4.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! This fact should be a reason for courage and optimism that our country will be able to avoid the technical resources that business potentials have in the future, even in the future, towards unemployment in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In the logical consequence of this fact, the employment and economic concept of the Austrian Federal Government does not rely on a wage ban, nor on permanent debt financing, but on the national and international competitive strengths of the domestic economy. In this context, the Austrian Federal Government is focusing on export, innovation and cost reductions through debureaucratisation, flexibility and the reduction of unnecessary wage additional costs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Tags, nothing but keywords!]] The Austrian Federal Government does not consider linear working time reductions to be useful, but supports the social partners in their efforts for new working time models that integrate further training into our economic system, which significantly reduce seasonal unemployment and thus also initiate new employment opportunities. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am convinced that we will be able, with flexible conditions, to implement deregulations, to implement the increased productivity rate in jobs and to prevent defensive rationalisation concepts. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's prospects for the future lie in a competitive productive sector that benefits from its opportunities on the world market and, in particular, on the European internal market. Austria's prospects for the future, however, are also in a highly expandable, employment-intensive sector of industrial services and in a creative leisure industry that recognises new trends and opportunities for development and transforms them into jobs. Workplaces, my honours Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no regulation, and there is no patent recipe for job creation. The objective of the Austrian Federal Government is, however, to shape the economic conditions in such a way that economic change is promoted and guided into the right track. It is the art of an economically successful and socially responsible policy that this change is accelerated, but also designed in such a way that there are no social shocks in our country and that friction losses are prevented as far as possible by strikes or radicalizations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think this has been better achieved in Austria up to now than in most industrialized countries in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government's economic and employment concept is based on clear principles and guidelines: First principle: Savings in the public sector do not endanger jobs, but rather safeguard jobs in the medium term. In this context, the successful adoption of the 100-billion schilling package is essential for the recovery of economic policy scope in order to be able to set the necessary impetus in economic and social policy as well as new initiatives in the future. I believe that the savings package provides the basis for the medium-term discharges that are necessary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The development in other countries, especially in Sweden, has made very clear what happens if a state cannot be rescaled and restructured in time. There unemployment has increased – with the savings package of the Austrian Federal Government, this path for Austria is avoided. The recognition of this path by the International Monetary Fund has now been very clear to us that this package has brought about a gain in stability and not a loss of stability. As Minister of Economic Affairs, it is essential and important to me to note here today that the form of the implementation of tax changes does not endanger the attractiveness of Austria's economic location. On the contrary: The Austrian corporate tax system is still much more attractive than that of our neighbor Germany. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In addition, by fixing a research billion, increasing the tax exemption, various impulses in the energy saving and construction sector, growth and employment policy initiatives were launched without endangering the savings target. This brings me to the second principle of the Austrian Federal Government: We want to provide a medium-term planning basis for those economic sectors dependent on public procurement. In the field of construction, this has been achieved by establishing a medium-term binding building and civil engineering programme. And I can say that this measure has already improved the economic and investment climate. Thanks to new financial instruments such as toll, road pricing and the dedicated sale of properties, companies can expect additional public investment not only for a year but for the next few years. The infrastructure offensive launched by the Austrian Federal Government in civil and civil engineering may not avoid any insolvency, but it will help to stabilise the construction industry as a whole as a sector and ensure that jobs are safe in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In this context, I call on the social partners to decide now on the largely negotiated new working time model to ensure continuous annual employment in order to ensure continuous employment and to ensure that, in the next winter, not only 40 percent but 80 to 90 percent of Austrian workers in the construction industry are employed. If we succeed, then we can save unemployment funds in billions, then we can and will set new impulses and at the same time save ourselves the annual horror reports about the high winter unemployment that the economic climate is always burdening. [[Further congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A second essential area which currently faces structural change is tourism. It is also necessary to make discharges. But this is not about public procurement, but the most important discharge in this area is red tape. A better back cover in international competition is also important. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I also believe that instead of permanently reiterating the crisis again today, it is urgently necessary to take a new advertising and marketing concept to Austria and thus bring new visitors to Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is important to support companies in capital formation and to make new offers in support policy. I say it quite openly: In the current situation tax relief is not possible. But an attractive form of tax breaks in the gastronomy sector could help us to re motivate thousands of innkeepers. I therefore believe that this model should not fail in small-scale bureaucratic concerns. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another key point to safeguarding jobs in tourism is the facilitation of the transfer of businesses and the reduction of the conditions which then become due. In this respect too, my House will draw up an appropriate initiative before the summer. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Improving income opportunities in tourism also means offering generous shop opening times in tourist areas. I am very glad that almost all the Councils of State could be won in order to establish generous opening hours for the coming summer. I hope that Vienna, too, recognises that the use of opportunities in urban tourism is only possible, that ensuring the competitive advantages to Prague is guaranteed only if we open the shops – but not if we keep them closed for too long! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! However, the most important key to reconquering full employment is undoubtedly export and internationalization. If the Austrian economy, workers and entrepreneurs are able to secure a slightly larger market share in the internal market, on the world market, this means additional jobs in Austria. I therefore think that it is completely wrong to raise the EU to a political counterpart rather than to use the many opportunities in this European Union openly and self-confidently. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Strengthened direct investment abroad, enhanced partnerships with foreign companies are a prerequisite for further increasing exports. In order to safeguard jobs and income, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is currently developing, together with the stakeholders, a new outline of external economic policy in order to make our export opportunities even better, even more systematic, in the coming years. This means, in concrete terms, that: We also want to allow small businesses access to the internal market through service and consultation, in particular by foreign trade agencies. According to input/output analysis by the Economic Research Institute, each additional export billion leads to 1 000 additional jobs. In 1995, Austria exported goods worth 564 billion schilling. Any further increase therefore means additional jobs. The internationalisation rate of the Austrian economy has increased as a result of the eastern opening, but it is still below the values of comparable states. We want to ensure, through better and more efficient use of European information networks, that cross-border cooperation is further promoted, supported and initiated. Internationalisation partnerships, particularly in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises, should be particularly promoted in this context. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] EU accession should be systematically used to achieve market share gains in Western and Eastern Europe. The increase in backflows from EU programmes through participation in PHARE and TACIS and consultants Trust Funds is and will be systematically increased. Through efficient coordination and a skillful lobbying, we are currently trying to benefit the European research programmes even more than ever from Austria. We also consider increasing participation in EU major projects of international development banks. This, ladies and gentlemen, requires hard work, Austrian know-how and lobbying in a positive sense. The cooperation of product producers and service providers in the export of Austrian products is currently being systematically improved and an ongoing optimization of export financing and guarantee policies is being undertaken. High house! However, the best external economic policy is undoubtedly an attractive location policy that enables local companies to compete in international competition to develop, produce and sell attractive products with a high share of value in Austria. In this context, it is also necessary to further ensure the promotion of capital formation. In Austria – and this too will be discussed again today – I believe that the proposals on injustice always focus on tax law, because in tax law, the Austrian Federal Government has already created excellent framework conditions with the abolition of property tax, the abolition of commercial income tax, the reduction of tax rates, with specific measures, such as final taxation of interest in the company, international boxing privilege. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] As a result of these measures – and this too must be noted – the equity ratio, which in the 1970s amounted to 28 percent, has fallen to 16.5 percent in 1982, now again above the 30 percent mark. This is a good value, but we want to and we can further improve it if we increase the profits of businesses and thus allow equity to be created from within. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That requires, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the FPÖ, the reduction of red tape costs, better machine life and a comprehensive stopover in the social security sector, to which the Austrian Federal Government acknowledges itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] In addition, comprehensive external equity-building initiatives were launched by the government and the individual ministries. In my Ministry of Economic Affairs, it becomes very concrete from 1st. The capital formation in small enterprises was promoted by the BÜRGES on 1 July. In my ministry it becomes quite concrete from 1st. In July, the Company Savings Action was carried out. All of this will help us to motivate young people to become self-employed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] For medium-sized enterprises, the capital issue shall be provided by the financing guarantee company and the SME financing companies. It is even stronger for large firms than before to make the way to the stock exchange, with the recent privatisations in the field of nationalized industry very clear that this path can be successfully pursued. High house! In my view, the fifth guideline of a forward-looking employment policy is the facilitation of business start-ups and the faster approval of plant facilities. The largest job creator was in the past and will continue to be small and medium-sized enterprises in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: But you have the wrong partner!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] For these in particular, the greatest incentive lies, not in the demands of freedom, but in the creation of jobs through a radical red tape reduction programme. [[Violent calls to the liberals.]] But I say quite openly, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The demand for such a crash programme has been raised very quickly, but overall implementation is extremely difficult because all departments are affected and because, of course, there is a specific interest behind any complex regulation. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Because you have the wrong partner!]] For me, red tape also means examining, within the framework of social, labour and environmental laws, whether the costs will also bring the appropriate benefits – or whether the costs are not worth noting. Changes are certainly only possible in the course of the constructive cooperation of the ministers of the resort. However, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, there is real expertise and a clear rejection of irrationality and populism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You don't do it!]] In any event, the Ministry of Economic Affairs will initiate a comprehensive process acceleration in the field of plant rights. We want to achieve this by extending the simplified authorisation procedure, by enabling the application procedure and by implementing a process concentration in the normal procedure. However, the ideal objective, ladies and gentlemen, which is always called for, is to concentrate all the approval procedures on an authority that implements the overall decision, is only possible if it succeeds in ensuring the involvement of the countries, and if a constitutional provision is agreed in this context. At any rate, I will seek a concentration of federal proceedings from my department and send the relevant laws into review before the summer. In order to achieve a rapid settlement of procedures, it is also necessary to increase the use of non-official experts. The aim is to limit the procedures for the approval of installations and to make a decision within three months. In my House, too, a concept for liberalising trade regulations is being developed which reduces unnecessary tests and barriers to entry, but at the same time ensures quality. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I personally welcome the repeated demand to examine existing laws from a given date on their sense of meaning and necessity and, if necessary, to abolish them. I am deeply convinced that initiatives in this area can also be put in place in the House itself. Sixth point: The guarantee and creation of jobs also requires optimum and cost-effective supply of infrastructure to the economy in the telecommunications and energy sectors. In this context, it is necessary to increase the exposure of protected sectors to competition and to increase the efficiency of businesses. In this context, the Ministry of Economic Affairs will liberalise the Austrian electricity market, stimulate competition between the ETUs in the interests of the economy and citizens and strengthen the control of compliance with the competitive environment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Privatisations are to be made possible, and Austrian cooperations are to be supported, with the stated objective of ensuring a co-existence and no interdependence between the Austrian electricity industry. High house! We must be careful about labelling key areas. However, I believe that telecommunications will become a central economic area of the next millennium. The applications of telecommunications services in individual enterprises – including small and medium-sized enterprises – will decide on the competitiveness of these companies and the use of telecommunications services will lead to new services and many new jobs. It is therefore very essential and important that this telecommunication development will not fall asleep. If you sleep this development, the future will fall asleep. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Austrian Federal Government will ensure the best possible supply of telecommunications services through the constructive cooperation of finance, economics and transport ministers. In the course of the technology transfer, my department will promote the application of the technologies in particular. The Minister of Transport will liberalise the system as a whole and ensure that the rules of competition are also made and complied with through an independent regulatory authority. The Minister of Finance will do everything in the course of the disbursement, so that the Austrian Post creates the change from the state authority to the private, modern service company. This change is essential for Austria, so, ladies and gentlemen, it is a national concern in the interests of the economy, but also in the interest of the jobs of the Federal officials of the Post Office. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last but not least, the seventh priority, as the seventh guideline, is to prevent youth unemployment by strengthening dual training. The quality of Austrian skilled workers and a well-trained youth are Austria's biggest site advantage for the future, and this competitive advantage must be further safeguarded. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Through new ways of continuing education and training, through closer cooperation between school policies, in particular specialised schools and economic practices, with enterprises, it is important to further develop this competitive advantage. High house! It must already be thought that at present more and more large firms are giving up apprenticeship training for cost reasons and, as a result, recruiting well-trained apprentices from small businesses. With immediate measures to increase the willingness to train, a general improvement in the attractiveness of dual training, a better networking of the various educational channels, the best possible integration of apprenticeships into our dual training system and the admission of new high-tech careers, we will ensure, ladies and gentlemen, that youth unemployment does not arise in Austria even in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We will ensure that, in future, qualified professionals, dynamic managers and successful entrepreneurs will be trained. In conclusion: Work for Austria, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, cannot be achieved by political licensing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It can only be secured by a dynamic economy that is huge internationally. Work for Austria requires a new, more flexible working time and increased structural change in the protected areas. The seven reform lines outlined here take this development into account by the Austrian Federal Government and create a framework for a strong economy in the coming years. I am convinced that, if these lines are implemented consistently, it will be possible to exceed the economic researchers' forecasts and to create more jobs in Austria than is currently assumed. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I am convinced that Austria will continue to succeed in the future, despite a tough competitive situation, in securing income and jobs for all Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3581	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his statement and now give the floor to the Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3602	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The biggest challenge for Europe, and thus for us too, is certainly employment policy in the coming years, in the pursuit of full employment; Mr Ditz has already done a lot. Clear: Laws and regulations alone did not allow employment policies to be dealt with, and it would also be bad if we had been waiting until today to take appropriate measures. We have seen in the last decades in Austria as a priority in all political fields the safeguarding of employment, full employment. Even in the difficult nineties, which are marked internationally by very dynamic structural changes in the technical field, in the field of the development of new economic areas, the opening of the eastern borders, integration in the Western European region, globalisation, Austria, unlike other countries, has managed not to lose jobs, but since 1990 has increased the number of self-employed workers in Austria: from 2.9 to over 3 million. And that in the difficult nineties! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We therefore have a relatively favourable situation today, compared with the other states of the European Union – but I stress from the outset: we must not calm down and that cannot calm us down. According to the EU directives, the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in Austria is currently 4 per cent, and unfortunately the European Union averages 11 per cent. And in the U.S., which have been praised again and again in recent times as a job wonderland, the unemployment rate is 5.5 percent according to these standards. Austria therefore has a good position, internationally compared. But again: This cannot calm us, we must intensify and continue the efforts of recent years to achieve full employment in the longer term. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There will be no patent recipe, not a single measure with which we achieve this objective, but, as in the past, it is a sum of a whole range of measures to be pursued and implemented by the Federal Government, together with the social partners, with the federal states, with the municipalities. But first and foremost, this great success in the field of employment security is attributed to the Austrians themselves, because we have had or have such a good position in Austria in the last decades is primarily the high quality of the work of the Austrians and their dynamics to make changes. This has resulted in Austria, which in the last third of Europe in the 1970s, being one of the leaders in Europe and the world today, being economic power and prosperity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This has been achieved by the diligence, reliability and quality of the work of the Austrians – and, of course, by the good social partnership. Recently, the issue of wages and competitiveness has been discussed. One objective is to: In order to achieve good economic development, the dynamic social partnership has also contributed with a view to changes, with a view to wage closures. And these pay statements, which have always been reached together in recent years and decades, are not to be destroyed and questioned, because Austria cannot keep competitiveness with wage and social dumping in the future, but by continuing the way of quality and creating the appropriate foundations, including at law level, for the further qualifications of Austria's economic location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The social partners have also given attention to the fact that there is a social peace in Austria, as it is hardly found elsewhere. This has again proved to be necessary in the difficult measures needed to consolidate our budget, so that we can secure employment policy again in the future. In no other country has there been such a great deal of understanding of such reasonable measures, which were also agreed upon by us, by the government, with all the social partners before. Of course, in addition to these measures, we need to further improve and optimise infrastructure – another important point for the quality of an economic location – which we have today. I have already had discussions with the social partners on this subject in the previous year, even in the pre-election period, with the Ministers responsible, whom I have invited. There have been negotiations which have led us, as Minister Ditz has already said, to have and benefit from longer-term investment opportunities outside the budget for the expansion of infrastructure, for rail transport, where it is necessary, in the field of road transport, telecommunications, environmental construction. This leads to an optimization of the quality of the Austrian economic location for the future. All of this was done in the joint agreement of the government with the economic partners. We decided not only now, but already in the previous year, otherwise it would have been far too late. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] These measures will not only ensure the quality of the economic location of Austria for the future and thus for all sectors of the economy, they will also help to restore the high level of unemployment currently in the construction sector, which is partly structurally dependent but also seasonally due to the long winter. We already had around 20 000 unemployed in April, less than at the end of March. With these measures for the expansion of infrastructure, which are now only beginning to take hold – in reality, they will only be fully effective in the course of this year and in the coming year – we will also be able to get back to unemployment in the field of the construction industry. This is of course also important for all other areas, because these investments have an impact not only on the construction industry, on the construction sector, but also on many other areas. But the decisive thing is not just this short-term measure of job security, but the decisive thing is that we continue to improve infrastructurally and thus further improve the quality of the Austrian economic location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another fundamental condition for the high quality of the Austrian economic location is that we have a very, very stable currency, also due to the good cooperation of government and social partners. Austria is one of the world's countries with the hardest currency, and this, on the other hand, also leads to a very low inflation rate. But if we want to benefit from this advantage of high monetary stability in the future, it is particularly necessary that we find the way to monetary union. In other words, consolidation measures in Europe leading to monetary union are not negative for full employment policy but positive. For a country like Austria with a hard currency policy, it is necessary to prevent other countries from having short-term competitive advantages by devalues and other measures in the monetary field. The aim is therefore to find, within the European Union, a monetary union with these consolidation measures, which is important for Austrian employment policy and is also seeking to achieve. Reaffirming what Minister Ditz has already explained: Despite these consolidation measures, we have put great emphasis on the fact that the corresponding resources will continue to be available for employment security. The tax policy has already been called economic policy by Minister Ditz, and I cannot add anything to it. One question is: In future, how will we also sell what we can produce more and more in a shorter period of time? Here, too, it is necessary – and the government has already begun to negotiate with the social partners – to provide export support, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, together with the chambers, together with banks, because small and medium-sized enterprises are of course unable to establish a marketing system worldwide. This is to be supported by us, because the better export measures represent a significant part of the opportunities for future employment policy. On this occasion, by the way, I would like to point out that the Economic Research Institute has determined that the opening of borders did not, as many believe, lead to job losses as a whole, but rather to the creation of more jobs by means of new export opportunities, much more so than, unfortunately, there has been a loss of migration. At the same time, I can see on this occasion that, because of the quality of Austria's economic location in recent years, very prominent companies which are examining their location very closely in international corporations have opted for Austria: BMW, Opel, Siemens, Hoffmann-La Roche, and, and, and. This list could continue for a long time. All these companies have come to Austria due to the good economic location policy. One thing is important: We also need to strengthen our support for small and medium-sized enterprises, and we need to support new business start-ups – this is also happening – but it is crucial that we keep industry in Austria, because only through this cooperation of industry with small and medium-sized enterprises, through a good and healthy mix between industry and small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of services and tourism, is it possible that we have implemented and will continue to maintain this high level of employment in Austria so far. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also necessary that research is increasingly available to small and medium-sized enterprises with their results, that closer links be found between universities and the economy, not only in the field of research but also in the field of training. It is important in all areas that this economic orientation takes place even more. Despite budget consolidation, we did not cut the budget cut in the field of active labour market policy, but increased the funds. This year, around 1.5 billion Schilling will be more available for active labour market policies. Last year it was about 5 billion, this year it will be more than 6.5 billion schilling. These 6.5 billion schillings for active labour market policies are used about 70 percent for qualification measures, further training measures, re-training measures. And especially in the year of life-long learning, we must increasingly promote that people are even more willing than they are today to continue training in their professional field. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The subject of reduction of working time is one in the long term. The subject of working time flexibility is a subject which is currently under discussion and which is also to be addressed. And there are very good discussions in this respect, which are being held by my place of business with the social partners. Only: Better design opportunities in the field of working time must benefit both businesses and workers. It is certainly not possible – and this is only sought by some, not by the majority of entrepreneurs, that I would like to say here – to see flexibility of working time only in such a way as to reduce overtime costs. It can't be. But more flexible working time models are very likely to be negotiated and will also come to a conclusion. Minister Ditz referred to the negotiations in the field of construction. These negotiations between the social partners are largely complete, and I expect them to be completed in the next 14 days, but in such a way that both parts, entrepreneurs and employees, find a reasonable system, a model which is beneficial to both sides. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With regard to the flexibility of working time, it should be noted that in Austria we already have great opportunities for flexible design of working time, opportunities which are largely not yet exploited. We already have industry-oriented possibilities today, we also have the possibility – like any industrial state – of shifting, and we can say that in the field of shifting, we are currently discussing whether women can and can do night work in general. This problem is to be solved, even in the interests of women, and it is expected that by the summer a solution will be found which will also allow women access to night work. I deliberately say 'allowed' because many women are in difficulty because only men can be used in the shift, and especially in the last few weeks and months of the more often women have lost their jobs. That is why there will be a new regulation here, whereby women can do night work in many areas today, especially in the most difficult – I am thinking only of the hospitals, the transport sector and so on. Just one thing: Night work can never be equated with work on the day. Night work is more stressful, more stressful for mental reasons, for physical reasons, more stressful for health, more stressful for the family. This is why there must also be a balance, which goes beyond today's financial compensation arrangements. That is why I am also in favour of the fact that there is a time limit for night work in certain hours, since, of course, we have to provide for a proper transitional period, which can only be effective in a few years so that companies can continue their wage policy and so on. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore convinced that we will solve this problem of more flexible working hours in the interests of both parts and taking into account the interests of both parts, workers and employers, until the summer of this year. This is a step that we cannot expect to create a lot of jobs, but a step that is necessary to offer better conditions of competition in individual areas, but also to give workers more opportunities. The longer-term trend from my point of view can only be that: We must take into account that we can produce more and more in a shorter and shorter period of time. However, we must also take into account that basic training will be less and less long enough to require more and more further training, in all sectors, so that more of our lifetime needs to be made available for further training. Therefore, after the current discussion on more flexible design possibilities of working time must be the next discussion, which will certainly not be to be held from today to tomorrow, which will take some years: How do we find completely new ways in the more flexible design of the entire lifetime? We are happy to live longer, we can create what we need and sell in an increasingly shorter period of time, but we need more time for education. This flexible working time is therefore intended to ensure that more blocks are available for further training throughout the life, but more larger blocks are also available for leisure. For example, someone should be able to say at 35 years of age that he wants to be half a year for further education or he wants to have a few months of free time now. These systems must be developed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is not going from today to tomorrow, because as simple as in the public service, where there is a continuous entrepreneur, these systems are not to be implemented – but they can be implemented. If you can arrange over-company holidays – for example, I refer to the building workers' holiday funds – it must certainly be possible in the future to take care of them in over-company leisure, over-time, holiday and treatment funds, which should then be able to pay more cheaply for further training from this account and to be charged for leisure time normally. These are the objectives of a real quality of life-based working time policy for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One issue that is currently being very discussed is the additional wage costs on which I would also like to comment. We have a good, socially balanced situation in Austria. The negotiations on wages have been conducted in a social partnership and have never resulted in any pressure. I therefore assume that they are also in line with the situation. In addition to the cost of social security, health care, health care, pension provision, the provision of pensions cannot therefore be abandoned, because at the same time the quality of our social security would be destroyed immoderately. Therefore, there can only be a change here if alternative means of financing are created at the same time. This is inseparable from one another, with many other areas outside the social system, of course: Is it useful – where it goes, should it be avoided – to calculate taxes from the wages? This is to be said about the additional wage costs from my point of view. That is to say, they cannot be deleted without further action, unless other measures are taken to ensure social security. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to re-examine active labour market policies. Of course, we need to focus our entire policy – financial policy, economic policy and everything – on having enough employment. Of active labour market policies, however, over the next few months and years, there will be even more emphasis on economic-oriented education and training, with particular emphasis on the promotion of women so that they can find equal opportunities on the labour market. Special measures – of course, as before – must be taken for the disabled. In addition, we have our own concept of how we help long-term unemployed to return to employment. The main problem, however, is that the main focus for this year is for me the employment of young people. We have the lowest youth unemployment in all of Europe in Austria – and that must remain the case! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We will therefore, together with the relevant ministers in the government and with the social partners, seek to further improve training. We will provide more information to young people about the professional information centres, and at the same time – this is new; there are also discussions with the Federal Minister Gehrer, who has also been working for her field of ministry in the EU – in the EU, we will seek to increase professional field research so that we can tell young people safely or at least more securely what occupations, which trainings have the future. The trend will be that basic training will be restructured in favour of good continuing training, showing young people from the very beginning the possibilities of continuing training. In addition, we will be increasing the resources for youth employment this year in the field of active labour market policy. We spent 200 million schillings in this area last year. We will spend around 600 million schillings this year, and we will work together with the social partners to ensure that every young person seeking training finds training this year too. We will try to ensure that Austria remains the country that has the lowest youth unemployment, because youth unemployment is not only for human, but also for social reasons the problem that we must avoid most. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We – the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities – have, together with the social partners, managed Europe's employment policy better than other countries. We will continue to do so in the future with optimism and with the new regulations we are making. These new regulations range from infrastructure development, training, further training to the reduction of unnecessary red tape. All of this will help to ensure that we do not, in the future, seek to achieve the goal of full employment, not with wage dumping, but with social dumping, with the quality of work, with the quality of export and with the quality of support from the Government and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3830	I would also like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for your statement. Both explanations now stand for discussion. We are therefore going into the debate. I've already announced the speaking times. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Haider. Speech time: 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e3861	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals have requested this parliamentary debate because we assume that there is a need for decisive action in the present situation in order to be able to really fight against increasing unemployment and against the problems in the economy. That was why we requested this, and we are therefore pleased that Mr Ditz has also made our working title "Work for Austria" a general title of his meeting before the National Council. It expresses that it is also beginning to identify with the idea that it is necessary to finally take measures to improve the situation of Austria in the economy and in the labour market. Only: We would have imagined something more concrete. What the two ministers have offered here was just a discussion of what they have been saying for many years. Finally, what the Minister for Social Affairs said was rather a matter of questions. Ministers, a government should not ask questions, but should respond to problems and challenges! That's what you're actually expecting from them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is also the reason why the Austrians are unsure: 80 percent of Austrians are afraid of their jobs. – So the government can't be so good if the fear has increased so dramatically. And if I look at a published survey today that shows that 90 percent of the government no longer trusts because it does not say the truth – 90 percent of the Austrians! – that 90 percent distrust economic researchers, 71 percent wish that employment policy should finally be taken care of in Austria, that only 31 percent are in favour of EU accession, and 47 percent would vote against EU accession today, then, ladies and gentlemen, you have to ask yourself the question: Why does distrust in this government policy grow that way? – That is why it is growing because, apart from giving beautiful words of itself, you are actually not doing anything. What has just happened here was, please, the fairy tale hour of two beautiful colours and sedative court councils, but not a clear announcement as to how it should continue in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Why do people mistrust? – This is where the Minister of Economic Affairs makes himself and says: Yes, we have to achieve success in the export! And: Last year we exported more than before! At the same time, however, the newspapers read that this is a purely statistical success. The Austrian Central Statistical Office is unable to enter correct data and has signaled a 15 percent export success, but Germany has in the meantime informed us that our exports actually decreased by 22 percent, so they have not increased. That is, you seem to believe only those statistics that you yourself have faked – and not those that the Statistical Office has provided. But these are the things that irritate the Austrians. It's talking about it, it's all going wonderfully – and in reality the exact opposite is happening. Both ministers are making themselves up and saying that the euro-currency is great, but they forget that Foreign Minister Dr. Schüssel said here a few days ago that Italy will certainly not be present in the euro-currency. Mr Minister of Economic Affairs, I do not need to tell you what that means. If Italy is not involved, this means that one of Austria's important trading partners, to whom you want to export with the Austrian economy, will again have the opportunity to continue the devaluation game, to break our export markets and also to collapse our tourist markets. This is an economic policy that a reasonable Austrian no longer understands! He does not understand that something is constantly being spoken, but reality looks completely different. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that we should therefore note that the solution to the problems cannot be achieved by saying that it is not as bad as it looked. The Minister for Social Affairs says that unemployment has now fallen in the construction sector. It only forgets that it is 34 per cent higher than last year, and it forgets that the unemployment rate has experienced a dramatic increase in the last ten years of the Vranitzky era. In relation to last April, Minister of Social Affairs, we have at least 11.8 percent more unemployed. This is not a success you can present here. If you say that we are going to use more labour market funding, then this is a defensive programme. That is, you manage unemployed, you breed unemployed, instead of creating jobs. This is not what we expect from you, but we expect you to set an economic framework, a framework that will lead to improved competitiveness of the economy. [[Complaints with the liberals]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreiter: Growing plants or animals!]] Breeded, of course. You have criticised this yourself more often than not, only if you sit on the government bench, then it is suddenly quite different. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That was a very insignificant call! Forget him!]] [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: Language plays an important role!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Youth unemployment. Mr Hums, it is nice to say that we have the lowest in all of Europe. Yes, it is all right, should we be glad, but it is still high at 47 000, and it is a weak comfort that it is worse elsewhere. 47,000 young people are unemployed! This is a policy that now appears to have an effect on young people. And if you say that we will do everything we can to guarantee the boys the jobs, then I ask you why your government, in which you are sitting, has now deleted most of the youth jobs in the service plan. Why did you do that? – And then put yourself here and say: We are making an offensive to ensure youth employment. That will not fit together in the back and in the front! That is exactly why the Austrians have such a distrust of this government. I would therefore like to tell you that we are calling for a stronger offensive on your part. What if, before the election, the Federal Chancellor says that it is now time to create jobs, and then nothing happens again? What if Mr Ditz spends 63 million schilling on advice and then nothing comes out – except the 63 million schilling that was spent on opinions last year? Or today's announcement: Compilation for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Ditz, you have already said that to your office, and you have been in office for a number of years. Who prevented you from doing this? They're talking about better tourism advertising. Who prevents you from doing it? They are responsible for tourism. They say it must make young people happy to become entrepreneurs again, but at the same time you are sitting in a government that is carrying out a corporate tax on substances, which each 50 000 s has to turn out to be – no matter if it has earned something or not. That's crazy what you're doing here! This cannot be done by economic policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You also say that you would facilitate the establishment of an office-crash programme, and then we read in the paper two days ago that the President of the Federal Chamber of Commerce has made a massive effort to ensure that there is a debureaucratisation of the trade order. – Yes, you have to make up your mind about what you want: One wants the bureaucracy, you want to debureautize, both of you sit in the same party, in the same government group. There's nothing going on like this! The principle of self-blocking in this Chamber State must be ended once! That is what the economy in our country demands! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Or: concentration of proceedings. It's good and beautiful. Apply the Constitution! In accordance with the provisions of the Austrian Constitution, you already have the opportunity to carry out the principle of concentration of proceedings today. Who prevents you, Mr. Minister? Who prevents you in the operating system process, who prevents you in the commercial procedure? You know better than everyone else that you have these possibilities. We tell you, of course, that this is only because you are actually not willing to break up the protected areas, to eliminate all-too-hidden bureaucracy, to curb the rising regulatory will and to help reduce the chronic lack of equity in the domestic economy. That's the core problem! You can't make yourself and say that the BÜRGES action creates equity. That's nothing but nonsense! A loan that you have to repay is not equity, that is loan money, Minister. They should make a tax policy that allows those who enter profits and invest them again to invest in favourably. That is what we imagine under a capital-friendly policy. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You can question this at your Federal Chamber President Maderthaner. He has recently published a statistics which show that the car industry in Austria has only more than 1 percent equity. Then he has produced something wrong on television, if everything is as great as you have shown it today, by saying that equity is constantly increasing, the companies can no longer defend themselves from fair equity, so they no longer go to the banks to take on expensive loans. In reality, it is going in the wrong direction! In the textile industry, which is said to be so important, you have lost 20,000 jobs in recent years – to be read in the statistics – you have lost 3,000 jobs in the food industry since EU accession, you have lost 4,000 jobs in trade last year, you have lost 30 000 jobs due to bankruptcy and compensation, and you are not talking about subcontractors because of your non-precaution with Japan, for example, Semperit after 100 years and put 2 300 jobs at risk there. This government programme is a programme that is intensifying the crisis and not eliminating it, ladies and gentlemen. It creates fewer jobs and more unemployed, it creates fewer apprenticeships and more unemployed young people, it creates less public investment and more public debt, it creates less new businesses and more bankruptcys, it creates less future-rich productions and more "extensive labour banks", and it creates less income and more burdens. This is exactly what we are at the heart of the debate. What do you want? You really? Here you make yourself and say that the measures must not go at the expense of wages. ==References== May you all march, and Mr. Vrannitzky announces: No reduction in income for employees! The same party, which bears government responsibility, has a managing director, Mrs. Ederer, who announces about the newspapers: We will not pay any more money during the overtime, but will give time balance. – Well, is the loss of income or not for those who work in this country? Mr Sallmutter announces in the "Small Newspaper", the one who is older than 50 years old, is supposed to give up some of his income because he must be happy that he is still allowed to work. Well, isn't it the loss of income or not? [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the workers party! She's got more left for the Kurds!]] Have you forgotten that in the AUA, wages were reduced by 20 to 25 percent? There's your party husband, Supervisory Board Chairman, where your party friends are integrated into the board of directors, and ÖVP is playing along. You can't go there and say there's no loss of income when you go down the wages everywhere. This is really cynicism, ladies and gentlemen, as it is no longer annoyed! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Have you forgotten, Mrs Hostasch, that Semperit paid 2.8 billion Schilling dividends and delivered profits that she had received 1.2 billion schilling from public grants? And today you're blocking, and people have to give up income! Is this the success of your economic policy? Have you forgotten that the construction lions with which you make up the major investment programmes – including Mr. Hazelsteiner from the Liberal Forum – and the construction lions, who are particularly involved in the major projects, have already shown to the employees that they have already removed the directing and accordion premiums? This is for a normal employee 5 000 S per month! Have you forgotten that the great separation allowance has already been removed? For example, I can prove this to you at Lang & Menhofer;. That makes 1 800 s pay-off! [[Live calls to the SPÖ.]] This is not in the construction industry, my colleague, since you are already responsible for your field. So 1 800 S for the large separation allowance are deleted. This makes for a worker – I know, the worker is not interested in you – who has previously earned 25 000 S, only more than 19 000 S monthly wages. That's the income security you're looking for. You've been propagating on May? There, ladies and gentlemen, people have different ideas. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Is it your income assurance that the newspapers can be found that the paper factory Hallein, which was held over water with billions of aid from the public sector about two years ago, now demands that people work four hours free of charge, or do they block the Bude? Is this economic policy, which secures forward-looking jobs, that one throws the money into someone who then introduces people to the alternative: Either you miss your wages or we lock off after we consume the subsidies!Unknown term type: "%s".? Is this your income policy, ladies and gentlemen, that the teaching workshops, which are also supported by the public authorities – Mr Minister, that is what is happening to you now –, for example, "youth at the work" in Grosspetersdorf in Burgenland, which apprentices pay under the collective contract? Check it out! That is the pay policy of this government! That's where you talk big about the apprentices, but in Großpetersdorf at "Jugend am Werk" the apprentices register apprentice compensations under the collective contract! So this is really not the way to go, ladies and gentlemen. That is exactly the dual nature that we criticize to this government! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Is this the recognition of the skilled worker, Mr. Federal Minister, which Mr. Vrannitzky has issued in his statement of government, that it is said: The local health phone is in dispute, so we will now limit wage advance payments to 26 weeks!Unknown term type: "%s".? That is the waiving of wages, ladies and gentlemen, the waiving of wages you order! You're with me! You can't divide out and say: Unfortunately, we don't have any money in the cash register. If the cash registers actually have no money, then I am really in favour that they should no longer be compulsory insurance. If they are unable to cover the risks to people, they should release insurance. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Is this your policy, ladies and gentlemen, if you read today that the flexibility of working time will bring 10 billion schilling to workers through reduced incomes? Is that what you really want? It can't be! And that's why I'm saying: It is lacking in this economic policy of offensive character, there is no improvement in the framework conditions, it is a zigzag course so much. This reduces the construction premium – tens of thousands of jobs away! This removes losses in the old house rehabilitation area – 20,000 jobs away! I'm just saying what Mr Scharschl said is a good comrade. He said these are predatory methods that destroy jobs. This is not my word, it is the Lord Scharschl who has told you this. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Listen! Listen!]] You will introduce an energy tax without reducing labour costs – this will rob you of 8 000 jobs again, and at the same time say that we will be making more housing promotion again, but no, then we will stop budget holes in the countries. – That way you will not get the economy, ladies and gentlemen! We are therefore telling you: There's also another way. There is a better way to improve these conditions, i.e. slim state, low taxes, safe income, reliable framework conditions. What do we mean by that? We believe that we should do what the EIA has called for for for many years: get rid of subsidies in the economic sector and reduce taxes. Failed, we have low taxes, as huge subsidies, where those who have long since been big corporations in Austria no longer pay Schilling taxes, but are constantly holding their hands when it comes to subsidies. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We tell you that there is a need for a framework for the purchasing power of the workers. Therefore, you need to take a measure to correct the cold wage tax progression. The workers are most affected by the fact that special expenditure is now being deleted. As a result, they are growing into higher stages of progression, so they will pay more wage tax, even with low incomes, and therefore there will be less power of consumption, because this will trigger a general depressive, pessimistic mood in Austria. That's to be corrected! If we get mass purchasing power, we get the internal economy in this country, and I think that is very important. Third point: Lower labour costs. We have to cut down on labour costs. I am in favour, Mr Minister, of not talking generally about the additional labour costs. But let us take out the specific labour costs created, for example, by the local tax. Who prevents us from taking a step into the eco-tax system and abolishing the local tax rate to a hundred percent? Then reduce labour costs by 3 percent of gross wages. This is a lot of money you save the companies and thus increase their competitiveness. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Seidinger.]] I don't have that much time! – Fourth point: Operating tax system. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Seidinger.]] I prefer a mayor has less money in the cash register, but the people have a job and earn what, colleague! That is the decisive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Fourth point: Operating tax system. We are calling for an operating tax system, ladies and gentlemen, which is regulated in the same way as Dr. Stummly has proposed, an operating tax system, where the profits not collected are taxed favourably. The person who reinvests the money should be taxed favourably. Who prevents you from finally doing that? You say it, we say, the Minister Ditz says it. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: No, I'm not saying it!]] Why can't we jointly decide today that this tax system will be introduced? [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Minister says this is nonsense! Mr. Dummful, your minister says this is nonsense!]] The colleague stupidly said this exactly on 9 July. ==References====External links== ==References== So I can only say what Mr. Stummfully addressed the "Economic Sheet" and the "Salzburger Nachrichten". – If that's nonsense, what he says, you have to discuss it with himself. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Even when it comes to less bureaucracy: Slender state means less bureaucratic burdens for us, for example when it comes to setting up a company. Who is it that prevents you, Mr President Maderthaner, from finally removing the admission fees at the Chambers for Young Entrepreneurs? You promised years ago. Why did you get there? Get away with an invading fee! Who, then, needs to be involved in a competition company in a chamber state before he is allowed to start working? That's ridiculous what's happening! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Who else needs an elaborate concession procedure? If today a young person wants to make a concession test, and he lacks half a year of practice, then he has to go to the Chamber and ask for an opinion so that he gets a forbearance from the admission to the concession test. And yet today, on the other hand, every Italian ice-seller who has sold a bag for a period of five months can open a gastronomy business with us! You must recognize that the contradictions are increasing and that you have to make order in the chamber state and do not constantly say "bureaucracy reform" and do not want to see your own mistakes! That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] What kind of de-bureaucratisation is this, when one reads that one third of the employees in Austria are already working outside the working time law, that is, working against the law? There is no job inspector, because they all look away when it comes to finding a compromise solution to the law in some establishments. But at the small farms they sniff around, the labour inspectors! And in the consumer branches they haven't been on it for years. Now, when you're remodeling, you'll experience it. In the "consum" branches there were not even toilet facilities, not even cooling rooms! – But all of this has not been noticed by the labour inspectors. I call for the laws to be implemented evenly in Austria and not to be constantly focused on them. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We ask, ladies and gentlemen, that the peppers will be effectively combated. The Federal Chamber has made a proposal, we like to pick it up. Luxembourg model: Don't punish, but we'll give anyone who builds a 12- or 15-percent VAT premium in the promoted housing with professionals – if he's working with professionals! That's important! 150 billion schillings are on the street that we escape in the area of the puss today. That's how 50 billion tax revenue escapes! Mr Minister, there is actually something inside for you if you were to take positive action there once! I would have liked to hear from you today that you say: Yeah, we're doing that quite concretely now. Or: consistent persecution of tax evaders. Why Make You don't? Now it is discovered how many companies have been deceiving very brutal sales tax for years, making pre-tax frauds. Why don't you go in there? Why not even try to catch these sinners instead of constantly increasing taxes and imposing new burdens on those who already pay taxes! That would be reasonable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Other point: public contracts. Why must Do you really follow the principle of general contractors constantly? This principle of general entrepreneurship has only the purpose of ensuring that small and medium-sized enterprises have to work at impossible costs, which then carry out in the event of poor wages – and ultimately perish. That's wrong! Get away from the general entrepreneurship principle in public procurement, such as You also now ask the BIG again, Minister Ditz, which is an adventurous idea of how you organized it. The National Bank is now building a new printing plant of 3 billion schilling. There I have a thick lettering with individual companies that are best bidders, Austrian commercial companies, who are at the National Bank's best bidder. And who, for example, will receive a contract with 8 million schilling for flooring after a week of tuging? – A company from Switzerland receives products that allow it to work in Switzerland. [[Abg. May. Stadler: There will surely be one to cut!]] Is this job security in Austria? Where the public hand can do it, there you knead, ladies and gentlemen! We would have liked to hear from you that you are also in your own field to ensure that the jobs in Austria are guaranteed that the orders will remain with the companies that the local companies can do business. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] ÖVP Deputies of Lower Austria: 40 million Schilling was commissioned for the facade covering at the new government district in St. Pölten. An Austrian was best beekeeper. – But he did not get the order, but one who buys the facades abroad. – That's all right from your point of view? This is how job security is done? – Well, we have other ideas! That is why we say: It is necessary to take all these measures effectively now, up to and including issues of flexibility in working time. I'll give you that right, Minister. But I warn you about one: Flexibilizing at the expense of a wage ban, as is prepared here, is the wrong way, because you catch exactly the performance elites in this state, those who work more, those who are willing to make overtime, those who then buy houses or apartments for providing their families who may earn 18 000, 20,000, 25 000 S gross per month today. They'll catch you with that! – That can’t be the way! We therefore call for overtime to be off-loaded so that it will be cost-effective for the company, but it is an incentive for the employee to do overtime – and he does not have to go the way of balancing time. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] And we're asking you for something: We demand from you, Minister, that the question of foreign employment be remedied. We liberals have no understanding at all that this year 16 000 foreigners are allowed to re-immigrate again – whether young or old. We have a high level of unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, which warrants it to have a stop from immigration now, which we demand and will also force you to do. They will not allow new workers to migrate as long as we have almost 300,000 unemployed in Austria to serve first. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an offensive program: Improve framework conditions, make state slimmer, reduce bureaucracy, lower taxes to ensure competitiveness. Mr Ditz said it himself: We need to lower taxes – but not now, perhaps in a few years. – That’s not a vision! Mr Wifo expert from the ÖVP, the budget expert of the ÖVP, Mr Lehner, said: By 1998 we have a defensive savings programme, then we will become offensive again. – This is the wrong way, Minister! A defensive program now creates pessimism, creates distrust, creates frustration in the economy! And he's here now! You must be a minister who gives optimism. But you have to do something. Then you have to go beyond the announcement. Then you have to keep up with what you have promised for years. Then you have to give the local medium-sized economy a chance! We're on your side! Let your group say that it should at least support the proposals which are also a consistent attitude of the EIAs today. Then we get an economic offensive. If you say "no" again today, you are not credible, because then it is obviously not serious to you with the domestic economy! We must already ask the question if Mr Maderthaner is voting against reasonable freedom of speech today, which is worth the social partners at all, Mr Maderthaner. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They say that the additional wage costs must be low, and the same Mr Maderthaner decides on a budget where the social security contribution is increased, as is the social security contribution of agricultural insurance, which is known to be additional labour costs, if one can expect, and he is already agreeing with Mr Hums that one will do something again in health insurance. – This is a cost-effective policy, and this leads to the loss of competitiveness! They are not even able to account for the 5 billion schilling of foreign trade promotions, which are still open. That's money, that's the economy. [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: (to his colleagues) He does not know!]] There he laughs, Mr President. He has collected money that has earned the domestic economy, ladies and gentlemen! That's the reality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President. What are you an economic representative? [[Abg. Ing. Maderthaner: You're very loose with the numbers!]] I was in the central customs office and looked at that. That's a contribution of 5 billion schilling. And the Chamber of Commerce says: What's the matter with me? We got the money, we didn't care, we used it up, the Minister should pay it back. Well, that's a fine thing, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is unheard of! Everything is not true! Just show!]] Then correct it! Where do you have the 1.5 billion schilling that are already out of the question for the domestic economy? Give it back to the economy, then much is already served, then we have already achieved a lot! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Resist better knowledge!]] I believe that this motivation is now necessary for the economy. There must be a signal that the loads are reduced that labour costs are falling. There must be a signal that it is possible to make profits, and there must be a signal to the employees that they will not be punished if they work more. That's something very decisive. This is what we want to achieve with this debate on the labour market and employment in Austria. We therefore invite you, Ladies and gentlemen, with us today to decide many of these requests! This is a decisive step towards improving the economic location. If you are serious about the jobs, you can only be there!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4261	President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4283	Mr President. High house! I have spoken against the Uzances because I am really disappointed that the chairman of a party is here requesting a special session and then cannot offer any proposals except words. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We too!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Bravo! Yeah, that's it! That's the truth! A misuse of Parliament!]] [[Calls to the liberals.]] You're complaining about "fearing." But the only thing you've offered here was to be afraid, but not to have a future policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dkfm. Holger Bauer: You're scared!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Does your party agree to these requests today: yes or no?]] You demand that the GesmbH is not taxed at 50,000 p. – Do you know how many zero cases there are, precisely because this form of society is misused? Young people go into the individual business, go to the working society – and have no start-up disadvantage. That means your claim is wrong! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] Secondly, a very sensitive question – I really want to thank the trade unions for their forward-looking nature: flexible working hours. We have rising unemployment. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Koppler: Be quiet, you don't know each other!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You don't know what's going on anymore!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] At this time, ladies and gentlemen, to want to deliberately remove overtime means to want to: that few work more and more, have their jobs – and are more and more outside the door. And we don't want that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ, the Liberal Forum and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Bauer! I was, after you, the Secretary of State: I've seen your "intellect" I've gotten your "concepts." They all can't be real! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] But now something else. The Freedom Party calls for the abolition of the municipal tax and the introduction of a larger energy tax. The Freedom Party does not at all consider how this affects the individual community, nor does it consider how it affects the investment activities of the municipalities and thus the jobs. [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] However, it does not consider that many industrial enterprises are being driven away from Austria. It does not consider that the paper industry may no longer be a businessman in Austria. That's the problem you've got here! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Prolonged calls to the liberals.]] As Minister of Economic Affairs, I am opposed to the fact that a Member of Parliament stands out here and generally tells entrepreneurs about tax evasion and calls for more control to be given to tighter action. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr. Haider! Do you believe that this will reduce bureaucracy? I don't think you have to put a policeman behind every businessman! I'm telling you that quite openly! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Liberal Forum.]] The two key mistakes of your policy are that you first do not recognize Europe's chance, but only fear it. This is not a future policy, so one cannot boost exports, so one cannot create jobs. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Read a daily newspaper today!]] The second point you see wrong is that you say: You can't save, now you have to spend more money. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] But you haven't made a single proposal on how you can save. They're just air bubbles. You didn't suggest where you could save! - Not one! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: air bubbles!]] Your "strength" in economic policy is that you quote newspapers and that you try to play one Member against the other. But I'm telling you quite honestly: This is not an economic concept, and it does not justify a special meeting. That must be said quite clearly once! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Now to the last point you repeatedly demand: Operating tax. Mr Haidinger once presented a draft, which was in 1987. And the Austrian Federal Government also discussed this concept at the time. . But then, Mr Haider, she did not deliberately choose this concept, because the tax rates would have been higher, and the profit that would have been so to speak would have been very small, and thus the formation of equity from the outside would have been very small... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The stupid one says it now! Now he's called for it!]] Listen to me and hide You don't always stand behind Mr. Stumbling! You should now discuss with me – and listen! [[Cheerfulness and applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] It is a difficult subject, Mr Meischberger! Listen! [[New applause and cheerfulness at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] Again! This is a difficult subject, Mr Meischberger. Listen! [[Continued cheerfulness and new applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We discussed the operating tax system at the time and then, together with experts, became convinced that it would be better to reduce the tax rate in general. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosenstingl.]] Don't yell so loud! That is why we now have a company tax rate of 34 percent. This is attractive for internal financing, but it is also attractive for the stock exchange and for external financing. This is a forward-looking concept. That is why I ask you not to make old ÖVP demands from 1987 almost always as a belly shop ahead of you. It's over, there are new concepts that are better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4593	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr Social Minister, I declare that I have a package of 16 requests from the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, namely, motions for resolutions, with the suggestion that these applications should be copied and distributed in writing. As § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure expressly refers only to amendments and supplementary requests, I would only make use of this possibility if there were no objection to them and then proceed unprejudicially. Is there any objection to copying this request package and making it available in writing to all Members? Mr Van der Bellen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4620	Mr President. I have absolutely nothing against the fact that these applications are duplicated and made available to all Members. But apart from that, § 55 of the Rules of Procedure clearly provides that motions for resolutions should be read. I don't see any reason to turn away from it.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4641	Deputies! I will do so because I will not hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure can actually be interpreted in such a way that this refers only to amendments and resolutions. The applications are properly supported, they will be negotiated when they have been read. I would ask you to make the readings as you please. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4666	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Don't worry, I won't take the time of the honourable Member and not correct everything that would have been correct. But two points I would like to mention so that people are not unnecessarily insecured. Dr. Haider! I would like to make it clear that I have already said several times that a reduction in the sickness allowance will not take place at 26 weeks. For this we will take action and for that we will also take the legal precautions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: They have declared that the teaching workshop "Jugend am Werk" in Großpetsdorf is paid under the collective contract. That's not right in my investigations. It is paid according to the collective agreement of the metal workers. This is also part of the AMS funding contract and is examined from there. That is what I want to do.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4710	The next speaker is Mr Maderthaner. The voluntary speaking time is 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4731	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Haider! We are accustomed to you coming out here and giving of yourself half-truths and untruths. We can prove it all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am allowed to correct a few things before I start my remarks. It is simply not true that exports to Austria have fallen, and the number you mentioned is not correct either. On the contrary: We were able to do so in export, in part even very considerable, namely in far-off countries. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Export to Germany!]] Exports to Indonesia have experienced an increase of about 80 percent, just so you know that. [[Abg. Madl: Where do you get this?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is always required that our companies should also export to far away countries. You do this, Dr. Haider! They are confusing the current balance with exports, and that is simply not true. Second: They talked about youth unemployment. It is true that this also concerns us, but it makes us come here and act like we have the highest youth unemployment, but we have to say something about it. Look The statistics are as follows: Austria is at the lowest end of the scale with a youth unemployment rate of around 5 percent. Do you know where there is the greatest youth unemployment? – In Spain with 42 percent, and in between, all other countries. That's fact! – But we still don’t take it easy, we want to do something and not just talk about it. You try – and this is your kind – without considering whether the numbers are voting, without regard to whether you are attacking someone personally, selling your policy as well. You want to give to everyone, but don't tell me where you want to get the money. In your program I read about securing the economic location Austria. You write: This development – I quote – is characterised by cutting cost reduction strategies on the one hand, and massive public tax reduction programmes, particularly in the field of direct taxation on the other. However, this strategy must not be at the expense of employees' incomes. So You want to give to everyone, but don't say where you want to take the money from. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The people are working, Mr President!]] That's your way, that's your kind we know, Dr. Haider! [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Higher benefit income!]] How Cheap Your argumentation is shown by the example of National Bank. They say an investment of 3 billion schilling and an order with 8 million schilling go abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: No! 10 I can tell you!]] The difference between 3 billion and 8 million is already very high, and this shows that you just want to polemize. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Acting instead of talking should be in the face of such an important and serious issue as job security on the agenda and the foreign exchange. The government parties have taken steps in their Conventions which they have taken in the right direction by making necessary price corrections. This will bring us forward – and not the persuasion and reviling. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Although the unemployment rate in Austria is still significantly below the European average, we still want to take steps to continue to reduce it. There is a difficult economic phase in Europe, and it should not be forgotten. If we do not work together against it and take the right steps, the course correction will certainly become more difficult. That is why we have taken steps to do so. Today's session must therefore be more than a stage for a speech in which debt allocations and calls for action are assigned to different groups with distributed roles. We should deal with real proposals. Minister Ditz has already pointed out: They have spoken a lot, but they have not brought proposals where, what to do, or how to deal with it. The opposition is not necessarily there to do that, that is the work of the government, and we will do it – whether you criticize it or not! [[Interlocutory calls to the liberals]] Ladies and gentlemen! We know the problems of unemployment. I hope you know that too. We must do everything we can to further reduce the relatively low unemployment rate – that is known – and we must do everything we can to avoid increasing it. Working time flexibility, budget restructuring, job security, competitiveness, debureaucratisation can and must be carried together. As entrepreneurs, we contribute our small part to solving the problems ahead, but we also demand from all those responsible for this, because then we will also be able to make it clear to our members why this has to be taken up for budget recovery. Ladies and gentlemen! I cannot quite imagine that the Chancellor of the Federal Republic was properly quoted a few days ago. In a daily newspaper, the following statement was quoted by him: We see that profits are no longer used to create jobs as they used to be. At the same time, he should have called on the economy to increase its commitment to job creation. In this case, I must say: We all have something to do and work for it. To secure jobs and create new ones. However, I find the course of the liberals, ladies and gentlemen, who still wanted to secure jobs in Austria in January with an 18-point programme, most of which I would have liked, because they are from our demand programme of the economy – they have been removed. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Everything back inside! Not read!]] One thing is also interesting, Dr. Haider: It is the way and also the right of opposition, to say, now we take something out, and then we look at how they behave in the vote; You have to go with us when we get it out of their program. – We know this tactic, too, Mr. Dr. Haider, I can tell you that. But take note: We have a contract with the government partner, and we will also take the necessary steps with him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What is interesting, however, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is that a few weeks later, after the introduction of this 18-point programme, you are already waiting with a new paper, partly with completely different, conflicting contents. The half-life of your proposals, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is getting shorter and shorter. – At least you should be able to read the concept before replacing it with a new one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! For many measures in the fight against unemployment and job creation, I do not believe that we need money at all, but only the good will of those who act, the trading partners. I am thinking, for example, of the implementation of our proposals to limit the yet very pronounced bureaucracy. – This not only saves money, but also gives more space. Debureaucratisation saves costs and makes the businesses healthier, and only healthy businesses that can actually sell their services and products secure the work in Austria in the long term. That is our task and our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I should also like to say that the end of the savings debate in Parliament with the decision-making of the budget is certainly not the end, but the start of reasonable savings: we should all be aware of this. In particular, the representatives of the economy – the economy has to cope with the impact of the savings package – should also call on all those responsible to treat the tax funds entrusted to them in the federal, state and local authorities sparingly and to use them as a priority for economic impulses, as this is important and necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to save our country Swedish states. In Sweden strong social cuts had to be made to correct the course. While the Austrians have to save 100 billion schilling in two years, the Swedishs find it even harder: They need to save 200 billion schilling during the current legislative period, and this requires strong cuts in social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen! We need to give the economy even more air for breathing, because that is essential. In other words, we must quickly continue negotiations with the social partners and with those responsible for the flexibility of working time and bring to a good conclusion. And I hope, together with the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, we will do this with the workers' representatives, that we will find a solution that serves everyone: both the workers and the employers. We know that this concern – the flexibility of working time – is not only a concern of employers or entrepreneurs, but is also in the interests of workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must avoid any additional burden on the farms! This must be an hour's commandment, ladies and gentlemen, especially at a time when the economy is faced with good opportunities, but also with very tough challenges. We need to reduce the additional labour costs – and this has already been mentioned today – and other costs, which are also included, ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of job security. In this context, we will... [[Abg. Trenk: That's what we want!]] We agree on this. Somewhere we agree, you take enough points out of our proposals, so we agree, not a question! [[Abg. Trenk: Do it too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will take the necessary steps together because we are actually concerned with securing jobs or creating new ones. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we also have to admit that there are exceptions to the law on working time – we have also reported – in agreement with the trade union or with the Ministry of Social Affairs. But in the interests of all businesses, ladies and gentlemen, I have to disapprove of such solutions, because they are first of all on the brink of legality, and secondly, the same right must apply to all. We will also take action for this. Ladies and gentlemen! We must implement the Workers' Protection Act, if necessary, also through a legislative innovation. In the present form, which I must critically note here, this law cannot be implemented in our businesses, apart from the burden imposed on the economy, which, for example, has no public service to bear and which would be contrary to what I said earlier, namely, to saving costs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we need, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, is to understand the problems and their causes and then the necessary implementation in the political parties. What we need is flexibility of all those involved, ladies and gentlemen – not just entrepreneurs! – to eliminate the causes, if we can do so alone in Austria. Flexibility and new ideas must be demanded by everyone; that is what is required. Ladies and gentlemen! We need the will of all to fight unemployment together, not those who are just talking about it. Word-playings with the fear and suffering of those concerned are pure cynicism, and so I believe, belong to banished from political everyday life as well as the mutual allocation of responsibility for solving the work problems we have – apart from the pace and regardless of our EU membership. And finally, we need my Ladies and gentlemen, the radical removal of bureaucratic obstacles – we have already put forward enough proposals in this regard – that neither benefit the environment nor safeguard social rights, but that only make life more difficult. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have everything to do to make Austria's economic location even more attractive. I believe that we have taken good action in this regard. We will certainly continue to work responsibly towards these objectives in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! We are all called to make slimmer, more manageable laws. This is work service, that is job security service. Let's take it seriously and get to work together!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4932	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I declare that of the 16 amendments we discussed earlier, four are in the sense of § 55 para. 3 The last sentence of the Rules of Procedure and, in the sense of the previous practice, of Mrs Apfelbeck's requests, particularly long, are now being read and thus under negotiation. With regard to the remaining 12 applications, I would like to ask the applicants concerned who appear on the requests to include these applications in their contributions to the discussion. I would ask the rapporteur to read these four requests.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e4959	[[Quoted print version removed]] Further: [[Quoted print version removed]] Further: [[Quoted print version removed]] Further: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President. All applications are read.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5215	I would like to thank the rapporteur for reading the requests. I have found that all the requests are sufficiently supported, and these motions for resolutions are included in the negotiations. There is a speech by Mrs Haider, who wants to make an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you. – You have withdrawn your word message. – Then, as the next speaker, Mr Dr. Kid reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5243	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The subject that we are discussing now, and in particular the statements made by the two members of the government, have already touched us very strongly, but not only since today. I would like to remind you right at the beginning of my remarks that the Liberal Forum will focus on how we can develop dynamics in the economy, how we can redefine the working world, as early as 15th century. On the other hand, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. It was clear to us that the government fractions were initially fully burdened by the convening of liquid means for the presentation of a somewhat plausible budget and therefore did not give them to our requests already in the previous weeks. However, we believe that today is an opportunity to point out that we have not waited for today's sitting to become an initiative, but that on the first day of this legislative period we have already made substantial and targeted proposals on this subject. I had the opportunity to invite the government to cooperate in my last speech here in the context of the budget debate. From Monday we should start turning to this work. I also agree when it comes to today. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] For example, it is our request to redefine the term "employee", namely to find a single worker concept, which obviously must include the re-definition of all related social security schemes. What I have been presented here today in distributed roles was, on the one hand, a kind of healthy prayer from the government bank – I am right to give the Federal Minister Ditz – the speech of a crisis, but on the other hand – and I am sorry for that. These were only announcements; Although announcements are helpful, they lose their weight and credibility with increasing time, because this government has not been operating in identical but almost equal composition for almost nine years. That's why I'm asking: What has the government done in the last nine years when it announces to us today things that are partly so natural that they should have been doing a long time ago? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Nothing innovative has come to the table. Perhaps I can confirm that the results are not really correct. Of course, it is true that the figures of unemployment statistics in Austria, compared with the EU average, are very similar to those of the USA in absolute percentages: Of course, one must be glad if one has only a 4 percent unemployment rate, while in the EU average it is 11 percent. But that's a static view. If you see this dynamically, you can see that the trend is falling in all EU countries except in Austria and Greece. In Austria and Greece, the trend towards unemployment is rising. That's the real problem! It does not reassure me that although the starting value is still relatively low, the trend is rising. And it comes at least as much to the trend as to absolute numbers. That's why I'm saying: You can't just lean back and say: We have 20 000 jobs more in the comparative period, as Mr Hums said. This is an objective fact, but it is also a static one, because, in parallel, the labour supply has increased, disproportionately – therefore, we have rising unemployment. It cannot be said that for those people who are already at work today, we are quite sure of it, and those who may be temporarily removed from the system, but we must recognize that we are faced with growing labour markets. I'm just making a small entry: Once what we have to develop in the area of women's emancipation and where we are far behind in Austria, this will be a positive development, then at the same time it will mean that the total labour supply will rise. We must see this positively – and respond positively to it as well. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In my opinion, all the inadequacies of both gentlemen from the Federal Government have made themselves clear in the concept of "additional costs". On the one hand, Mr Ditz stressed in half a sentence: Unnecessary additional labour costs should be reduced. For the sake of caution, however, he has failed to mention any particular additional wage costs by name. So he's just saying, "thinking unnecessaryly." This is an empty formula, not affluent, and I wonder why the Federal Minister responsible for energy has not immediately found to consider the environmental tax reform that is finally to be taken up, so that, of course, – and this is the state of the debate – wage reductions against energy taxes will be neutral. The Federal Government has now raised energy taxes only in a one-sided step, without reducing additional wage costs. It can't have been. I would have expected at least the announcement that a real discussion is taking place in the committee of inquiry requested by us, and that the company and also the workers are informed that they are determined to have carried out an environmental tax reform in at least two years' time. The fact that we are buying today, in order to reorganise the budget temporarily, would be an honest statement from the government, but it should be said that we will start in at the latest one or two years with the reduction of the additional wage costs after we have already secured the revenue that should allow this, namely the energy tax. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Of course it has been on this point since 15. In January of this year, a corresponding request from the Liberal Forum in this House and the discussion and processing in the relevant committees is pending. However, if, at the same time, Federal Minister Hums, in his speech, according to Mr Ditz, the additional wage costs are the only guarantee of social security, you can see that the Federal Government is in the circle and not even the idea has been developed, that perhaps social security can be financed differently than only by means of additional labour costs. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] It will, of course, be a matter of concluding a new social contract, of truly revitalizing solidarity, rather than suffocating it through bureaucracy, of telling people what they really want to achieve, of confessing to live in a society in which no one, but really no one, is to be abandoned – and of trying to make a basic guarantee for every person in that country, because it is rich enough for that to happen. We're just unimaginable if we don't. This would ensure both social security and stability as well as democratically quiet conditions. These are three parameters which are not entirely irrelevant to an economic location – my colleague Helmut Peter is sure to address them. On this point, we agree with the passive statements made by the members of the Federal Government, only: We do not think that what the Federal Government is doing is really an opportunity to be optimistic, regardless of whether one is a worker or an employer. That's why I think: If one does not decide to open up real new financing opportunities for what we need as a social network, what is essential for us, and will always depend on the additional wage costs, then one minister will say that there is no need to reduce additional wage costs – without saying which – and the other will be able to say nothing but: the additional wage costs are indispensable, because they are the guarantee of social security. There are inconsistencies: State Secretary Schlögl proposes "Sunday years", a request which we very much welcome, which is fully contained in our proposals on the flexibility of the working world, in order to make working time arrangements more flexible. In this way we want to finally achieve that people can choose the working time they are willing or able to do – and not that they are assigned to them in the type of bread cards of the immediate post-war period. State Secretary Schlögl therefore proposes these Sunday years, but he forgets to say that this is only feasible in the context of a general reform in the public service, while also relativizing the protection of relocation, creating new access to Pragmatization, redefine job descriptions, otherwise the model of State Secretary Schlögl – four years working, one year free, 80 percent paid wages – creates a group of Parias: There must be jumpers for these years. These are, as it were, to take a picture from the justice, the explosive judges at a lifetime. But that would be quite, very bad: We then have the happy owners, who are already in the public service, who can make these "sunday years" – and these shortfalls on the other hand, who work in these time gaps. In any case, it doesn't happen that a person is just gone for a year except – and that would be interesting anyway – it turns out that, although he was gone for a year and no replacement was found, he didn't really miss anyone. Then he might even be superfluous. That would be possible! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Exactly!]] But then you can only help yourself again if you can use it elsewhere after your return – in case of an abandoned changeover. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] To the overtime discussion: The Federal Government has found a scheme during the overtime period, where it has a certain lower limit of amount from taxation. It seems to be of the opinion that this is social policy, redistribution policy or whatever. Mr Haider has aged over the fact that people who spend overtime are treated so badly, and he thought that willing people would be harmed in such a way. – I say to you: What we're doing now is a negative steering effect. We make overtime so cheap that they actually push out other work. These overtimes no longer carry social burdens; they are much cheaper than limit hours. The path must be more reversed. You have to think seriously: On the one hand, the overtime supplements may not be too low, because they are easy to arrange overtime, and if you can find them – if you can get up the overtime supplements – you can not tax them fully and quite normally, because that would be fairer? [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Then there would not be more hours left, but there would really be more where it is useful and correct for certain reasons. The whole thing, in order not to be misunderstood, is, of course, against the background of a flexible design of working hours with seasonal calculations and with a viability of voting hours, i.e. working hours that do not run in a rigid scheme of any fictitious full-time work. That all of this does not go without socially flanking measures, that it is not simply going to buy that, although people with little employment gain income, they cannot live on it – the United States is showing us this in one segment; in another segment, they are very successful, even in high-quality jobs – be only the completeness mentioned half of my time. For this reason too, we have considered. We have to redefine unemployment. That would be the real task that the Federal Government would now have to do. However, as long as one is always moving in the circle of those who have already worked, and all those who have a training, but may never really be able to enter the labour market or slow down or only very difficult, as long as one leaves it outside, of course the statistical figures are also automatically beautiful, because then all those who never had a job before are not counted. Then 4 per cent of unemployment rates are so low in us and 11 per cent higher in other countries because there may be a higher fluctuation there, so that just more people are caught in these statistics and unemployment is more visible there than we are; with us it is hidden. I think it is a serious mistake to beautify the unemployment rate in statistics in such a situation. Those who are unemployed know that they have no work and cannot be comforted at all by the fact that they are only a part of 4 percent published. These are all individual fates, those may be people with family, with care and also with increasing self-confidence, with psychological problems. In this context, I recall the study by Marienthal, which is already part of the history of the time. – I fear, however, that she has been forgotten. – It is one of the political tasks to establish a framework in which the economy can develop successfully, because this also means demand for work, so that people can develop their jobs and therefore choose the amount of working time to be done by them. All of this, however, presupposes – that I say, in order not to be misunderstood at this time – that a social-partnership attitude should come about, which is not "frend", which does not mean "strange structures", but that one really strives for people's concerns – and also goes on the ground. That is why I mentioned this – although it is of course for Liberals – so that someone does not twist the word in my mouth. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] I have mentioned earlier that it would be useful to approach an election time, which may mean, even to mean, that there is employment, which alone is not enough to ensure the proper continuation of the work done, and that perhaps one should define the term "part-time unemployment" if there are electoral periods, which are then part-time. And that's not utopian at all, because in Switzerland, for example, this has been happening for years and days. There, someone who finds a job that is not enough in the sense of what I have done before receives payment. These payments are less than what one would have to pay to him if he were totally unemployed, but are so high that he has more with what he deserves little plus payment than if he only received unemployment benefit. For me, Switzerland is free from suspicion because of any social utopia. But there is obviously another co-human access in Switzerland, also rational access – and perhaps one in which the view to reality has not been lost by overcrowded social bureaucracy. That is why I can't be comforted if Mr. Federal Minister Hums has done this, and more resources are being spent on employment policy. We cannot see this, we see nothing from this more resources, but just a wealth of budget positions, which are actually standing in the wrong place and being pushed back and forth. I had an opportunity in this House to point out that a surplus of 4.7 billion schilling to the AMS is ultimately compensated for by payments from the AMS to the compensation fund of the pension funds of 4.9 billion schilling. Of course we can say that we have added 4.7 billion schilling here, and that is now more means, but if you calculate exactly, you can see that this is not true. This may mean EU funding, but it has not been mentioned by name. – So it's just empty-formling. I have previously dealt with Mr Schlögl's proposal on Sunday year, a proposal which I welcome from the basic approach - I say this again - only I believe that this is so point-by-point that it will not work. It includes an overall reform of labour rights, in particular civil service rights and the approximation of all employment rights. It is particularly fatal, however, to read in the paper that what was granted to officials in this year and next year as a one-off salary in the context of the negotiations, apparently on request and according to the will of Mr Dohr, the chairman of the Public Service Trade Union, was exempted from payments to social security. So, what were those payments now? – Were the one-time payments to the salaries, i.e. wages, social security contributions, or were they, so to speak, unique gifts to the officials so that they are calm, and were they not wages? What was that now? It is taxable, I have read with interest. After all! It could also be said that the Republic is now paying grossly for net, because the taxes they collect again anyway, so what sense does it make. – This has not been done, but these one-time payments have been freed from social security. And this is against the background of the fact that, in the field of work contracts – now I turn to the part where it is collected – and even if one cannot even tell the people, on the one hand, what social, time-dependent rights they acquire with it, but on the other hand, one hastens immediately to exclude a very large piece of paperwork from this regulation, namely, the well-knownly free entrepreneurs. Newspaper colporteurs are excluded for reasons of opportunity. These special payments will be made to officials for reasons of social security. And the whole thing is under the heading. "We must be in solidarity together." [[Abg. Dr. Frischenschlager: Right!]] The whole thing is under the heading "Legal State". This is at least unconstitutional and therefore unconstitutional. But that doesn't seem to disturb you! You probably have the hope that no one will notice. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] At the end of my remarks, I am now quoting from a resolution of our party, which has long been tabled here, but which is still on the table, which deals with the approximation of rights for all self-employed persons, of course up to the pension reform and, of course, including the social security side, where we feel that reform is urgently needed because these systems have reached the limits of their financial viability, so that we already begin to reject the money by force, see, for example, the attempt to raise the prescription fees and so on. We would like to ask the Federal Government with this motion for a resolution, which must first be voted on, to draw up an operational calendar together, based on a new definition of employment and so on. I think that would also be the only serious way to solve the problem. I wish and expect that the discussion on these constructive applications will finally begin – at last, because they have been since 15. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and finally one admits that such projects, such as a new social contract, a reorganisation of self-employed work, must be implemented in order to reorganise pension systems. Of course, no one – even us – expects a Federal Minister to say suddenly: So now I have the solution here, and the majority will decide without debate! – These things will have to be worked out in discussions, because we will also have to convince the people that this is good. But it will not bring this for all improvements, but it will hopefully be much more just than it is now. That is why we expect a federal government which takes itself and Parliament seriously to present us with an operating calendar. We're not so naïve, to think you can pull everything out of the Taschl. Apparently you haven't started editing in the last nine years. It's recognizable. But if you haven't worked this out for nine years, that doesn't mean you shouldn't do it for the next four years. We believe that a Parliament which takes itself seriously would go to the government with an open hand, and I also mean the representatives of the government parties, who also see themselves as parliamentarians and should take this counter-dictive work process seriously. They should not wait for the government documents to be put in place, but they should enter into a joint discussion here. If this, namely this access to parliamentarism, which is also our access, would again be a majority in this House, then we could be easier to deal with the two-thirds majority of the government groups. Because then you wouldn't do what you've done in the past few weeks under the excuse "time pressure", that is, simply take security decisions in the form of two-thirds laws. Then there might be more or less unanimous laws in this house. This would be important for these issues. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5361	The next speaker is Mr Deputy. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5382	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Work for Austria – a real and important topic in itself, but it would be wrong, we would only wait until there is a special meeting about it to deal with it in practice. A few days ago, laws have been adopted in the National Council – with different majority groups – which provide practical answers on this matter and prove that we are not waiting. Consider the construction investment programme, think of the investment programme in relation to the entire transport sector. In this, the Federal Government, as the two Federal Ministers have also said, addresses concrete measures not only but also implements them. For example, you can even understand this in the construction investment programme for each individual measure. So if it is proven, there is. However, it has also been shown that in many areas it is always said that one could be, but then, if something is to be realized, one suddenly realizes that not even the planning phase has been completed. I expect those responsible in the countries, in the regions, to support the efforts of the Federal Government and also of the National Council quickly so that the planned measures will actually be effective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My previous speaker has noted that Federal Minister Hums is not flexible enough if I can define this in terms of additional wage costs. I listened very carefully to what Federal Minister Hums said. He said that he was in favour of a change in the cost of wages if social security was guaranteed and their financing was not called into question by other pots. That is why, I believe, it is not the Minister who should not have the necessary flexibility. Mr Haider has also made his speech in the same way. He has attacked and said that the labour market service only manages the unemployed. Mr Haider! The development of recent years has shown very clearly that the labour market service is far from pure administration, towards a question... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger.]] You just need to check that out in your company, dear friend. In your own business, you can check it out. If you talk to the workers, you will see that the labour market service, in the form of work foundations and training courses it offers to the workers, does far more than just manage how you always try to present it here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is criticised by Mr Haider that the youth in the public service is no longer given a chance. There I can only recall: 1994: Program of the Freedom Party, point 17: no replacement of the natural exit in the public service. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You've deleted the youth jobs!]] How is that supposed to work, Mr. Haider? On the one hand, you say: Officials stop, no resumptions, but on the other hand, criticize young people not being allowed access to the public service. Conversion period for working hours – point 11 of the FPÖ programme. On the one hand, it is criticised that annual employment is allowed, but on the other hand this is demanded by the FPÖ itself. Shared compulsory work – point 2 of the same programme. Reduction of collective contract minimum wages – point 3 of the same programme. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: The state should finance the compensation!]] Yes, the state is supposed to finance it, it's inside. In the circle of the FPÖ Members there is a Member of Parliament, Princehorn, who is not one of those who pay high wages and offer high social benefits in their own field. In fact, there is something else in it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, if one complains of flexibility again in the speeches, then, I think, one can also draw on the latest programme, for example point 2.5: More time autonomy for businesses. Mr Blünegger! What does that mean for an employee if the time autonomy only determines the operation? Is this the program you understand by flexibilization? [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Or: flexible working time arrangements in point 2.7. – I am convinced that honest working conditions are indicated for honest working people, but not polemics, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the FPÖ programmes in recent years, I do not think you can stop the finding: Although the script is always rewritten, the film remains the same, the actors remain the same – and the director is the same. The 1994 FPÖ separator package proposes: 60 billion schilling savings, introduction of an energy tax that would bring 27 billion schilling, savings in the wage tax area. The model actually calculated would have meant that not new jobs had been created, but that only in the agricultural and commercial sectors around 150,000 jobs would have disappeared when this model was implemented. - 1994! The FPÖ's economic concept in 1995: Entrepreneurships, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, are to be promoted. A few months earlier, presented by the FPÖ in a completely different way. So you can continue: "Ally for Jobs" of the Freedom Party. The common denominator of this programme, also quite disputable: According to the Freedom Party, the too high wages of workers and, on the other hand, the low profits of entrepreneurs are due. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Did you vote against?]] The Liberal Party, through redistribution from bottom to top, does not want to create relief from top to bottom, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mr President! You're not an illiterate!]] You can continue with the latest program of the Freedom Party. The impact of the 1996 FPÖ proposal: Reduction of the maximum tax rate from 50 to 38 percent. - Dear colleague Haider! That costs "only" 12 billion schilling... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: A union president who has no proposals for job security! That's unique!]] It costs 12 billion schilling! The reduction of the minimum corporation tax from 50,000 to 15 000 s – listen, Mr Haider, listen! – costs an additional 800 million schilling. [[Other calls of the Abg. Dr. Haider]] It is not pleasant to deal with the programs in detail and not just react to headlines. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the social security institutions. I am sure that some speakers will address this issue. I should like to make it clear here: The administrative burden of social security funds is 3%. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Mrs. Krammer spoke differently!]] I am referring to the statements made by my predecessor and not just to the headlines. The administrative burden is 3%. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You defend the bureaucracy again!]] The 169 German insurance institutions have 17 percent administrative burden. If we talk about administrative burdens, consider what it takes to get more insurance into a competition. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to jobs, we should also deal with the current labour market. I have tried early today to look for work with two prominent members of this House. Dr. Haider, a lawyer from his education, would currently find two open positions in Vienna. A speaker for women's promotion issues, equal treatment issues are being sought at the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Art and a house jury at a construction company. The only problem is that Mr Haider as a lawyer would not find a job in his beloved Carinthia. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: I'm not looking for anyone either!]] President Maderthaner, who, as an electrical engineer, was in Vienna would find five open jobs, unfortunately, has the problem – and this is a problem that we have to deal with together – that it is too old for these jobs, since it is the 50. I've already crossed the age. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No one takes that anymore!]] In Amstetten, in his hometown, there is no workplace at all for an electric technician, even in St. Pölten. These are the problems that we find on the labour market today, ladies and gentlemen. They may not be pleasant, but they are fact. If the sentence is true that only entrepreneurs create jobs, I wonder where they are and where the future concepts of entrepreneurs create socially acceptable and existential jobs. Or, in fact, the sentence applies: "The fact that the worker must also have a wage for his work is a theory that has been generally dropped today." Unknown term type: "%s".? – Kurt Tucholsky said that already in 1931. However, that should not be today's foreign exchange. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: It is embarrassing that the trade union president has no ideas!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we should also deal with the issue of additional labour costs which has already been raised on several occasions. In the last week, the Chamber of Commerce quoted a Swedish examination of the additional costs of wages in Austria. It is unfortunate that we are now trying again, although two years ago we agreed on the issue of additional labour costs, to give the impression that Austria's additional wage costs are much higher than in all other countries. The 13th and 14ths. In the international context, monthly salary is not included in the additional wage costs. If we compete with Sweden, Mr Maderthaner, the Austrian employers would probably be grateful if they had to pay 35 percent instead of 27 percent of social contributions and the rest was financed by the budget. The worker should also be able to cope with 6 per cent of the social burden. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're right!]] I therefore believe that it is only useful to talk about the additional wage costs in connection if you involve everything else. It is precisely a fact that unit labour costs in Austria are more favourable compared to those of our main trading partners than they were two years ago. That is why we should hold the debate under different conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a fact that we are increasingly facing international development in Austria, which the American Minister of Social Affairs has described as a "overpassed Wallstreet family" where in reality only the stock exchange value of a company is in the foreground. This is in the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung", which is certainly not a labour-friendly or social-democratic body, on 20 June. In April of this year, we will read about the development of the labour market in the world, but especially in Europe. It is not clear that a Director-General of a company like AT&T, by the announcement that he will release 40 000 workers, will speed up the stock price so that he himself could credit 160 million schilling profits for 1995 on his account. – This is the Wallstreet family that is rejected. Ladies and gentlemen! We need a change to take into account, in addition to stock prices, the interests of employees and customers as well as society as a whole. I think everything else would be a wrong development. However, we are also experiencing Europe-wide – and this has also been mentioned here in the House – that blind deregulation is being tried to overcome the problem of economic development there or there. I am actually glad that the European Commission noted in a report a few weeks ago that less regulation also leads to a greater pay gap and that the evidence could not be provided that deregulation, for example in America, for example in England, actually creates more employment. The only evidence is that wage incomes are falling, social benefits are gone and poverty is increasing clearly in these areas. I do not think that is uninteresting either. If, for example, the Liberal Party today calls for the concentration of social partners at the operational level, I must say that I personally do not see social partnership exclusively in the fact that President Maderthaner, President Schwarzböck, President Hostasch and I understand and set objectives, but it lives essentially on the fact that in the enterprises works councils and management jointly try to develop solutions to the problems ahead. But this is not a new requirement, but it is a model that has been defined in the Constitutional Law since 1920. I believe that practical examples can also prove how it could work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Blünegger.]] Mr Blünegger! Opening clause in your company! Think about your own business and don't pretend it wasn't at all. What are you actually in charge of if that doesn't work? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] In the context of the question of the labour market, a subject is constantly being dealt with controversially or for some even a topic of deity in Austria, namely the reduction of working time. I already know that many say immediately that it is simply not a matter of talking about it, that is a "idea of yesterday". – Strangely, this "idea of yesterday" is the subject of deliberations by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Strangely, the reduction of working time is the subject of a debate in France, where a Conservative Prime Minister, with a Social Democratic predecessor, Jospin and Rocard, is discussing whether a reduction in working time could help create more jobs and distribute the work better. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Shall they! That doesn't bother us!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your What is the new form of reduction in working time? In principle, the title does not matter to me, but I am concerned that we distribute the work. If you say that part-time work is the new line, then you know just as well as I do that because of the Austrian wage relations a part-time job is hardly enough to really secure an existence, but at least two are necessary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore glad that the issue of work, the distribution of work, is not a subject which can be qualified as a God-fearing or as from yesterday. Whether it is Mr Schlögl's initiative or whether it is time to pay off overtime, I must say: Something's moving. But I don't want to be misunderstood. In my original profession as an installer, I couldn't say to the client either: Now keep your finger on the pipe, it's half five, the working time is over. However, at a time when unemployment is increasing in our country, it is that a very certain group of workers is constantly overtime, increasing, and that is still under the title of "increasing performance". It is really a question of distributing the work better to prevent only a few jobs. We need to promote employment, but we also need to maintain employment. I therefore believe that what the Federal Government and various other bodies are doing, such as the Chamber of Commerce – I do not think it is worth mentioning – is a right approach in the context of economic promotion. We need a different industrial attitude, we also need a mindset, which is: The focus must be on the maintenance of workers and the creation of jobs. A manager should not be greeted when he announces employees when "lean management" is announced, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is sufficient evidence for this – whether in the paper industry, in the electrical industry, in the car industry, in the construction industry. I refer to the newly introduced bonus malus system and to various other developments there or there. For example, if the magazine "Real", which is to be attributed to the entrepreneurship, writes in the commercial sector: I think that work must be done here, and I think that this is a correct approach, because these undertakings are the first to feel when they get close. [[Abg. Meisinger: Like Semperit!]] Dear friend! Look at Semperit in detail and make suggestions on how to counter it! Only keywords in this context are not asked! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we want to work for Austria, then it is about pooling and using the existing corporate structures of small and medium-sized enterprises, then it is about research and development, then it is about ensuring the location of this country, but then it is also about qualification. Then we must face up to a trend that we will see again in a few weeks. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: That's what you've got in your hand, my dear friend, for decades! You've been in government for decades!]] There are again many burgers registered as automechanical apprentices and girls as apprentices with hairdressers and retail shopwives. – We do not have that alone, that is a question of professional information, that is a question of recruitment, but that is also a question of providing suitable apprenticeships. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the objective of economic policy must be to ensure the sustainable improvement of quality of life through job security, income growth, fair distribution of incomes, to maintain social and environmental standards in our countries, and not to repeat new F-programmes as a permanent programme.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5690	Mr Oellinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5711	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I learned a lot again in this debate. For example, it is possible for the Freedom Party to represent here in principle the variation of the identity. What you have always said in the last two years and as a savings package of the FPÖ or as an employment programme of the liberals, as a "contract with Austria", is presented again today in a different robe, but essentially with the same demands. In principle, it was also possible for the representatives of the government to come out here and say: We make good policy, we make the best employment policy, and if you trust in us, everything is fine. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that it is actually possible, necessary and desirable, to realize at a time when we are not only Austrian-wide, but Europe-wide, that growth, employment and the social state are at risk of seeing some of the concepts that have been and have been implemented in recent years, whether they have really been successful. I read to you what you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, said as a reason for deregulation in Europe, as a reason why we should join the EEA and the European Union. For example, Mr Nice said in 1994: The Vienna economy is relieved by EU accession by 10 billion Schilling. The overall Austrian export industry would benefit from an EU accession of around 16.5 billion Schilling, which would benefit importers of around 20 billion schilling – almost 40 billion schilling. Ladies and gentlemen! If you're here now and you're saying the economy is suffering, the economy needs air, I'm asking you: Where did these 40 billion shillings remain? Where did they stay? Where have you increased prosperity in Austria? Where has deregulation in Europe and in Austria actually been positive, so positive that growth, employment, that wages have benefited? Two years ago it was said: Only when we join the EU will it be certain that wages will not be reduced. If we don't join, the wages must be reduced. – Today – whether government or parts of the opposition – you feel that it is possible and necessary to reduce wages if we want to deal with the tasks of the next few years. I think it would have been desirable, indeed, to look at what has been achieved by these concepts of deregulation in Europe in recent years. Member of Parliament has already mentioned the "New Zurich Newspaper" before. I would like to tell you what the "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" writes about employment policy, the prospects of European employment policy. Under the title "Ratlessness of the European Council". Intensive discussion on employment policy" it says – I quote –: "The European Council's inconsistency on the employment issue is shown by the fact that the participants of the summit seem to be increasingly resorting to activism rather than to activities. The President of the Commission, Jacques Santer, presented to the 15 EU leaders in Turin his initiative for a so-called European confidence pact for employment, which is in line with the – failed – German ‘Ally for Labour’." That's the reality! At European level, there is nothing left to the government representatives, Mr. Mock. The time of ideas is out and over. No one knows at European level – or nobody wants to know – how employment can be guaranteed among the outrages of this economic policy, which is now being pursued in all European countries. It is not only as it is hidden here in Austria, but also in other countries such as Germany, it is already a bit louder and very clear that this procyclical policy of deficit reduction is ruining growth across Europe, and thus the objective which we have actually sought to combat the deficit cannot be achieved. This is the reality we are facing in Europe now. We cannot fight the deficit in a sustainable way because the funds are not suitable for it, and we cannot guarantee employment and prosperity at all. If we continue to pursue this policy, we cannot maintain the European social state, even if it is a bureaucratic social state, with the right and the dimension of actually ensuring social security. That is the reality in Europe! Not by chance, a study on deregulation and employment has been commissioned by the EU Commission. This is the result of the following judgment: "Overall, employment in the EU has not improved since deregulation began, in the sense of a higher employment rate and lower unemployment rates. As long as there is no clear evidence," continues the study, "we should not stop Member States from building their employment policies on the assumption that the benefits of a broad labour market deregulation have been demonstrated." This is a clear and clear statement that the failure of this policy has actually occurred, the failure of a policy that has come out in the last ten years on deregulation to devils. And now the devil is out! Now, everywhere in Europe, not only growth rates are falling, but employment numbers are also declining. And no one knows how to proceed. We will then meet again at a new summit and discuss, perhaps offering to trade unions something that involves trade unions in the discussion. But, my dear colleague, you know that very well –: Nothing will come of it, just as nothing has come out in the last ten years. That's the reality! We do not agree, at European level, and here at this level of government. It is as if you could go on somehow, as if it were going to continue somehow – you have gotten it over the past few years. But now it shows: It's not going on that way! Finally, it is with this kind of policy to pursue! It burns everywhere, at all corners and ends: in employment policy, in employment situation, in the social state. Two weeks ago, we discussed the prospects of this Austrian social state: Social abuse prevention, social penalties – these are the "perspectives" we currently have to offer. At least you, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties – and I admit, the opposition parties too – did not think much. I agree: It is not possible to invent something new. But it is possible and imaginable to develop something new with old concepts, with old approaches too, also forward. For example, we have... [[Abg. Conspicuous: What about the construction industry? What about the infrastructure that is being done?]] Of course, Mr Vergestnitsch, we also have a concept of how the construction industry could be helped. But our concept does not start with the construction industry, I say that stun and clear. This cannot be the centre of employment policy. And it cannot be the perspective of the construction industry to operate very machine-intensive but little-work intensive road projects, in which you can use some machines, but only very few people can employ. It cannot also be the perspective of an employment policy for the construction that, as we know – last but not least at the Freudnau construction site – one not only employs a lot of machines and a few people, but also the people who work there come from illegal employment, because otherwise it is obviously no longer possible for construction companies to pay themselves in the segment of wages they are willing to organize employment. It cannot be that we continue this path. It cannot, however, be done as Mr Haider has said. He made a visit to America a year ago, he listened to Newt Gingrich and thought: This "contract with America" is a wonderful thing we have to do for Austria, which we adapt. We do a "contract with Austria", mix well with what we have already had – shake through once! – and then present this – just as it has happened in recent months – several times in special sessions here in Parliament. Something is already going to depend on us taking care of the jobs. I do not think that will be the case, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party. If you look at your concepts, if you look at how, under what conditions in America employment is secured, you can't come to believe that this is a concept that is actually good for employment, for workers, for entrepreneurs. In America, the broad middle class is currently ruined, ladies and gentlemen! The only ones to benefit from the development in America are the upper classes. The upper classes are the ones that benefit – and this is also your concept, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals; a concept of which the large majority of the population would have nothing – whether workers or small self-employed. [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Then you didn't read it!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: That was embarrassing now!]] The average weekly income of U.S. employees in production and other non-conductive jobs fell by 18 percent between 1973 and 1995 – the average! – from 315 dollars to 258 dollars a week. That's obvious. Your concept! In comparison, the annual salary of top managers increased grossly by 19 and net by 66 percent between 1979 and 1989. By 66 percent! [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Oillinger, what does this have to do with our concept?]] It is therefore no coincidence that the head of the Federal Reserve Bank Alan Greenspan in July 1995 warned the Congress that the growing inequality could become a "significant threat to our society". [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Are you talking about our program?]] Yes, I am also talking about the free movement programme, which is obviously quelled by American ideas. – But you are not the only ones, I already admit it; there are others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that an Austrian concept should be linked to other things, not to American experiences, not to the adoption of the American concept or to the British concept, which is only a bad one, a mess of the American concept. It should be based on the positive experience we have had with the development of the Austrian model in recent years and decades. Not by chance, colleague Reichhold, brought "Die Zeit" – I also quote another newspaper – on 19. April 1996 a one-sided report on an Austrian company – a one-sided report in the "time" is already worth: "The stockings manufacturer Wolford relies on people instead of machines and depends on competition." In an area where it is very difficult for Austria to secure employment, namely in the textile industry, it is obviously possible to pay with intelligent ideas and with the willingness to pay even decent wages that are 30 percent higher than the average – 30 percent! – not only to secure employment, but also to expand it. Like the Palmers Group, the stockings manufacturer Wolford certainly does not have to deal with the problem of offering too little employment or not having enough jobs. - I think that's an answer. You can't generalize this one, I'm clear. But there is an intelligent idea behind it, and it would be necessary to develop such intelligent ideas, even in other segments. Let us take a very important area: the information market. It is striking that in Austria, as far as the information market is concerned, we are discussing all the hardware we may need or do not need. It will be discussed whether the Wiener Kabelgesellschaft should offer services via its cable networks. But what is not discussed – and that would be a worthwhile task for the Minister of Economic Affairs! – is what universal service we offer in Austria could develop what services it should integrate, what should be included in information, and whether this would be an intelligent, meaningful product for the future. We would have opportunities to develop something in a market, which could be exemplary not only for Austria but for Europe as a whole, an intelligent product that can be easily used by every Austrian. These would be the requirements for such a universal service in the field of information services as a whole. That would be possible and imaginable. This does not require the billions who spend large companies in the field of information technologies. One would come out with relatively modest means and would have an exportable product, a product that makes sense to people, because it would not only enable the previous users of information technology to use it, but because it would be a useful and useful technology for everyone to provide access to information that is not otherwise available. That would be useful and possible. But the situation in the media and information market is another – I do not happen to wear this T-shirt. [[Abg. The green wears T-shirts with the label "S.O.S. ==References==]] We are faced with a huge concentration in the media sector, an enormous poverty of ideas and a frightening degree of decreasing freedom of expression. We – and this is really significant for Austria – have a media concentration in the printing media in Austria, as it is hardly comparable to another European country. Switzerland is currently alone in the printing media sector 120, I think – I don't have the exact number – Newspapers. It is not the best European country in this respect, but the Scandinavian countries are even better: You have more newspapers. Switzerland is the third best European country in terms of the number of daily newspapers in relation to the population. Austria is at the level of a developing country, with regard to the number of daily newspapers, but not with regard to the number of readers. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! This is the result of your policy, which in recent years and decades has completely failed, which has subjected itself to a media cartel and which has in no way been willing to take any step against this media concentration, however necessary it would have been. [[Congratulation with the greens and the agglomeration of the agglomeration. Schaffenrath.]] Employment trends in the media sector have been negative. It's not touching. They have slept all the developments that would have been possible, for example, in the radio sector, but also in the television sector. They couldn't agree. There is a regional radio law, of which everyone knew before, even before it even arose, that it is of course absurd, because it would have intensified media concentration and interconnected the media even further. So this law could not be grasped from the outset. Nevertheless, they have gone the way to further increase media concentration and interdependence between the different media. Another area in the media sector has already been mentioned by my predecessor, Mr Kier. What you have done in the field of works contracts, with this law of convenience, which you have passed in recent weeks, is not only grossly illegal – you know that and you are likely to be confirmed by the Constitutional Court – but of course it favours the media cartel media print. Only this cartel is greatly favoured by this legislation. Some others also receive something from this cake, from this access via the works contracts, from this particularly favored house delivery. Of course, it is not possible for all other federal states and small daily newspapers to organize it as the media print has organized. These cannot benefit from it. You've decided. They thought it was right. – In doing so, you have demonstrated how much you are vulnerable to blackmail, how much you are willing to give up the questions of freedom of expression, but also of employment in this important area without a propensity, for the only price you are willing to pay, namely that you are mentioned positively and praisefully in this media cartel and have no war with the most important newspaper publishers in that country. But this is the wrong perspective, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! In this way, you cannot secure freedom of expression or employment in the important information and media sector. It would be necessary to develop intelligent ideas, intelligent perspectives – here too. I've given you an example. The Minister for Economic Affairs has just not noticed, I repeat it, and that is the universal service. It would be possible to develop this in the field of telematics for Austria. I believe that there are these examples also in other areas, there are intelligent products in the environmental field, there is them if you control certain steering instruments in this direction, if you use an eco-tax if you create a legal framework, including in the area of workers' protection and environmental protection, which allows these technologies, namely soft technologies, to be organised differently. I'm just telling you one example: It is not by chance from Scandinavia, where soft technologies are used in the printing industry, because in Scandinavia there is a very rigid ban on solvents. The Scandinavian entrepreneurs were well-founded, they had to look for alternatives, and they also found them in simple oil products. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: What does this have to do with jobs?]] I am telling you what this has to do with jobs, quite specifically. There has also been an Austrian company, a large manufacturer of chemical products for the printing sector, which said: Actually, I want to get out. I offer an alternative product, I develop it, an oil-based detergent instead of solvent-based. I offer it, but because the client demands it this way, I can of course only offer it alternatively to the toxic solvents. I can't take the toxics out of the range because the customers want them, but I actually want to put the oil product on the market. This Austrian product – this is a very modest contribution – was one of the best on the market. But the businessman has only been able to place so little on the market that he has not been able to carry out research in this area and has not been able to perfect his product. The fact that you, Minister of Economic Affairs, and you, Mr Social Affairs, did not set the appropriate conditions has led to no pressure on the solvents. In this case, it was concluded that the Austrian entrepreneur had to remove his own, Austrian, good product from the market, because he saw that it did not do anything and now took over a licence product from a German manufacturer for Austria, which, of course, is much better than the Austrian product, because he did not have the means to advance research. This is another example – similar to the example with the larynx trucks – where it is important to set the framework conditions for ensuring environmental protection and thus employment, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs. I think it is a very concrete example, which illustrates how little you really are about going in this direction, to take very concrete initiatives that not only safeguard employment, but also health and the environment. For example, in the case of this product, it is not only about the fact that people are getting bad by inhaling solvents, but also about an alternative product would be an effective contribution to the ground-based ozone. But the government does not have any framework in this respect. I think, however, that's a way to go. That is why I am not in line with those who simply call for red tape on the part of the government parties completely indiscriminately. Of course, we are in favour of reducing bureaucracy, if that is to say that these 98 or 99 sluggish laws – which you concluded two weeks ago, and which have hit Parliament on the head or on the table – mean that these laws will therefore be thoroughly advised that these laws will be simplified and that some progress will be made here. We are of course in favour of this! But if you think "reduction of red tape" – which I do not think you are, but sometimes you have the impression of hearing such a thing – that all provisions of protection, whether they concern workers' protection or environmental protection, could be eliminated, I am not your opinion. I would, however, be with you, Minister of Economic Affairs, if, for example, you – and this would be an offer – would introduce a mediation procedure in the field of environmental rights if you would complement citizen participation through mediation if there were effective means of mediation between the interests of businesses and the interests of citizens' initiatives, the citizens involved and environmental initiatives. That would be a contribution in the right direction! There's something you could do outside legal provisions. However, I am not with the government – the Minister for Social Affairs is no longer there, but I must say it – when it is tried to push certain groups out of the labour market with 99 laws that you have passed. You are talking about employment today, but you yourself have decided in these 99 laws – Mr. Feurstein, you know – provisions that push women out of the labour market, when they are alone and have children to care for. There is already the implementation of the Social Minister, who clearly states what we have always expressed as suspicion. – Mr Feurstein, you have the opportunity to express your views. It says quite clearly here: In cases where there are doubts about the declaration given, in particular – now comes the pass: – where there are care obligations – I emphasize: Sustainable duties! – to examine availability on the basis of a concrete employment offer within the meaning of § 9 of the Unemployment Insurance Act. What does that mean? – We do not offer women any care options no later than two and a half years after the birth of a child. There are no kindergartens, there are no pedigrees on the land. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] As a result, this woman, in order to receive emergency aid, has to go to the employment office. This is where the labour market supervisors come and say: I'd have an offer for you. – Then she will answer: But I have care obligations, for my child at home, two and a half years old. - Then the labour market supervisor will say: I can't do anything. I can't pay you any more unemployment benefits or emergency aid. – This is the exclusion, the classic elimination that you decided with these measures for a very specific group, namely single women, two weeks ago. If this is your way of ensuring employment, Mr Feurstein, but also you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I am sorry for your prospects, then I am sorry to have your way of pursuing social policy. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schaffenrath.]] There are, of course, many more to say, ladies and gentlemen! There are also many specific proposals, such as the working time scheme. Of course, it is possible and necessary to secure employment with intelligent ideas, not only with insistence on the 35 hour week. Of course, we have always argued that intelligent, new annual working time models should be developed, which include reduced working time, but at the same time allow more flexibility for the businessman, who will ensure a little bit of benefits and yet make a useful contribution to the further development of working time rights. Of course, it would be possible to provide additional employment by means of active labour market policies, for example by dividing work between more people, for example in the sense of what Mr Schlögl has proposed. Of course, we could also use the resources of active labour market policy and fill up a little of the pay gap, which, of course, is clumsy. Of course that would be possible, but we should have the means to do so. If the resources of active labour market policy or the unemployment budget rise to rising unemployment, the resources for active labour market policies will become less and less. That's reality. 3 billion schilling remain in the national budget for active labour market policy. The rest goes to co-financed employment initiatives, that is, jointly funded with the EU. This makes sense, but at the same time it is a bond of resources that leaves relatively little room for the already very modest Austrian labour market policy. It would be necessary to increase the resources for this. It would be necessary to create a new right of working time. It would also be necessary to create a new right of settlement, so that we could once and for all have this sad debate, whether the 13th and 14ths. Wage and pay are now paid extra costs or wage costs which would have been side-by-side. Of course, it is wage costs and, of course, it would be possible to organize it quite differently, to organize it in a fluid way, to use waste, for example, for educational exemptions, or to get the saved money. Of course, ideas in this area would be possible and necessary, with which one could actually organise not only employment but also qualifications and thus make a useful contribution. German Jesuit Father Friedhelm Hengsbach meant that the most important problem is the fair distribution of wealth and work. That's the main problem. Ladies and gentlemen! As long as we do not talk about this main problem, including all its implications – and this is not only about the fair distribution of wage labour, it is also about fair distribution...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5854	Deputies! There is a – voluntarily agreed – limit of speaking time. I just wanted to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5876	It is also about the fair distribution not only of wage labour, but also of household work, of family work. If we do not manage to do this, because we are actually taking a step forward – and we as parliamentarians, too – if we do not manage to organize our own working hours, even the sitting hours here in Parliament, in such a way that domestic and family work is still possible, and if we do not manage to organize it for the other 7 million people, then we have actually failed. Here, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I would like to hear a little more from you than the mere clumps of your shoulder.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5906	Mr Blünegger referred to an actual correction. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Please start with the facts you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5930	Mr President. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! On the correction of the remarks made by the President of the Council. The opening clause did not work in my company, Mr President Vergestnitsch said. - That's not true. After all, in 1993 we concluded 1.5 percent under the collective agreement and, as it were, we took 1.5 percent of the wage loss into account. The workforce was willing to document that jobs were to be secured. But unfortunately – and I have to correct that now – this Federal Government has failed, because in the vehicle industry, where these jobs have now been lost...
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5946	Excuse me, honourable Member, that is no longer an actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e5969	That's not wrong! – In any case, the vehicle industry has come under the wheels and the creation of the appropriate framework conditions for our vehicle industry to secure EU jobs has not taken place. I would like to make a further correction to the remarks made by Mr Oellinger, who today said that we have no concept of freedom and that we are not on the table. . I would just like to present to him some concepts which include the fact that we have liberals very well in labour market policy and economic policy concepts that are useful. [[the speaker holds a portfolio in the height]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6014	The next speaker is Mr Dr Höchtl. - Please. Under the agreements, a voluntary time limit of 10 minutes shall apply.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6038	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in a debate on the development, exchange and presentation of ideas, we should see how existing jobs can be secured and new ones created, in particular the fact that economic processes are generally subject to a very high level of psychological conditions. I am therefore seeking that from certain sides – whoever it is – it is stopped to represent only anything negative, only to insure everyone, to make just pessimistic statements. This is not the way in which we can try to awaken optimism, which is quite the case with many people. That is, I'm pleading for having not a messmaker, but a mutator in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Those who believe it is enough to color a situation would not be in the right place. However, those who believe that they have to suffer a situation do not secure a single job! This has been said to you today in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: You can't tolerate the truth!]] – You can only criticize. The only question is who uses the methods with which to propose what action jobs actually create – instead of saying that we want to assure people and perhaps rejoice that many people are afraid of their jobs if more negative messages are announced. [[Abg. Böhacker: You can't bear the truth!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Whoever wants to do something for Austrian workers, who wants to do something for Austrian businesses, should think positively, should develop and implement proposals. That is the principle that applies and that we act upon. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Take a break with us!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We'll do that, colleague. In addition: We are not the government party that rejects any proposal, if it comes from any other political group. No, no, no, [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Speak to us objectively, then we can talk to each other!]] We want to find the best for the population in the discourse, together, in the development of proposals. In this short time available to me now, I would like to ask you: What could such essential approaches now look like? . I believe, first of all, that the principle of our employment policy must be to finance, not unemployment, but to create work by promoting new initiatives. What does that mean? . It means, for example, that we are creating new quality in the meaningful negotiations of annual working time contracts, which will provide both employment and less resources for unemployment, in reducing the number of seasonal unemployed with redundancies. We have the bonus malus system with 1. ==References== We will see the effects of this model in a few months. – Should these be negative, we would be the last ones not to correct this right away, colleague! But doing nothing is the worst way to respond to a challenge! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Böhacker and Meisinger.]] We believe, for example, that we can bring the many unfortunate long-term unemployed out of this unemployment situation through occupational integration aid and integrate them into the labour market. These are concrete initiatives to be implemented and implemented by the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are also on the question of working time today, those who are not only discussing but also trying to systematically implement the proposals from this discussion, including a formula which means: Working hours of the highest personal choice, which give both workers more design opportunities, more classification possibilities and the company undoubtedly the opportunity to achieve greater economic efficiency. Because only in the co-operation of workers and employers can we ensure a high level of employment not only but also increase accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, all models of how we could create more part-time jobs are worth discussing. We see from all the studies that in particular two groups have a special demand for part-time work. On the one hand, these are younger women who want to achieve a combination of family and work, on the other hand, they are older workers who say they would prefer to work, for example, only 30 hours instead of 40 hours. Why not meet these actual needs and thus include additional people in the work process? I think this is an ideal combination. We say a part-time offensive because, in Austria, we are still a follow-up to other European countries, which is due to be part-time. In Austria, only 10 per cent of all jobs are part-time jobs; in the Netherlands, for example, 36 per cent. If there were to be an increase of only 5 percent over the next five years, 150 000 people could also be integrated into the labour market. [[from the visitor gallery is to hear a short, loud call from a woman; the person is referred to by staff of the house of the gallery]] This is our task, and we have this task to deal with! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: We have agreed to an export offensive in this Federal Government. Mr Maderthaner has already pointed out that there have been significant export increases in some sectors. So you can imagine something below: The increase in the export quota by 1 percent would also allow the creation of around 16 000 jobs. The courage to create new markets and not stagnation in common areas – I believe that is the motto of this offensive. And I also believe that this offensive is a success if we believe in it and realize it step by step. Another very important point: We must try – and with "we" I mean this Federal Government – to conclude a pact with the social partners for work in order to prevent the relocation of businesses abroad. A transformation – not a deletion! – the different benefits in the additional labour costs sector is our goal, because none of us want the removal of what is financed by them. However, we are very open, very flexible, how this is to be financed. I think: Redesign yes, no deletion, there is a common initiative to be pursued! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Or: We do not want a defensive process in the labour market, we say: only a distribution of existing jobs. Our motto is to make an offensive To achieve more jobs, and that is why our initiative, Mr Commissioner, is listening! – to promote new businesses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meisinger]] We believe that, on average, about three to five jobs are being created with each new small or medium-sized enterprise. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is a partner form of policy: workers and employers are trying to achieve the highest level of employment. Only a high level of employment also enables high income. This, in turn, enables high consumption, thus securing jobs and maintaining businesses. All the other ways lead to a situation that we do not want. If we are just unsure, the person who is supposed to spend his income as a consumer will not consume and will not be able to invest. If we try to implement the points I have put forward together, there is a chance that in a few years' time the horror vision will not be the truth that two thirds of people have a job and a third will not. I'm asking for this. Let us promote optimism, promote the courage and fight all the bad guys!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6191	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6212	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I have laughed a few times too much at this serious session today, this has a very simple reason: If you, as an entrepreneur, who employs a few thousand people in Austria, put things under your hands, as you did, Mr President Vergestnich, when you said that we are paying bad wages in our businesses. [[Abg. Conspicuous: I said you were the best paid!]] You must know that the paper industry pays the second highest wages in the Austrian industry that we paid 16,5 wages and salaries in 1995 - something that other businesses can only dream of. You know that, that's why it was a classic intervening on your part. But that's nothing new. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Thank God you are then very kind to me outside, and this should continue, Mr President. The same applies to the irrationalities which the Minister of Economic Affairs accuses the trader and economic spokesperson, when he says, well, it is quite clear that we have no idea of economics. . I do not want to give back anything you know about the business economy; I personally appreciate you, Minister. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] This is above all because I was ten years economic spokesperson of the Industrial Union, which you are very close to at this time, you have always brought Ezzes from us in the Industrial Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That you're saying we're irrational, just please me. But here I would also like to cut another thing – a very serious one – again: Somehow, in recent years, our concepts seem to have been lost again and again. We have an economic location concept, we have an industrial concept, and these concepts have been greatly praised abroad by leading economic newspapers – they have not been called irrational, Mr. Minister – for example, on 13 March. ==References== – All this seems to have gone away from you. [[Abg. May. Stadler: An "irrational" leaf!]] - Yes, right! Irrationality! No matter what we liberals say, it must definitely be nonsense for you, and therefore we sometimes consider your own proposals by bringing them in; But they reject them! This is the Irrational, Minister of Economics! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If I were new to this country, if only since 1. I would say that Mr Klima's programmes, by Mr Ditz, but also those of the liberals in economic matters – if they are presented in relation to the F – are very similar to each other. You resemble each other so bafflingly, I must tell you that I am always wondering what has happened over the last 20 years. There are always the same programs, always the same problems that you encounter, and so I can only say: You criticize your own programs! If you are criticizing today that all that you have written into your programme 20 years ago is missing, I am somewhat irrational, Mr Minister for Economic Affairs. Her predecessor as Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister Schüssel, has also taken Professor Malik. He then told him a lot of things – and when it became unpleasant, you sent him back to St. Gallen. How true all this is unfortunately, you know for yourself today; You can read it in the writings of Professor Malik. The reality looks quite different: The debureaucratisation and the concentration of plant law has not taken place. Maybe a small example from practice: The realization of a twenty-million investment – Mr. Minister, also your predecessor, Minister Schüssel, knows her – has taken about four and a half years to complete an expansion facility for a combined heat and power group: One has always had a note, the other has not; there have been numerous motions for resolutions, and this has ultimately been all under the leadership of the Minister of Economic Affairs, Schüssel, and also under your leadership. That you're sorry, I'm very happy because we've been sorry for this for a long time. But you should also have a little compassion for me and understand that we are skeptical – but not pessimistic! We are skeptical, and we want actions and not always just announcements. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can also tell you something sad: If, after five years, such an investment is finally carried out by the authorities and is technically outdated and one cannot make it again, the jobs will cost. – Just like the jobs that have just been lost in a factory in the supply industry of "Semperit" – this is not because "Semperit" is leaving. This was a smart company, which was taken over by the state with 250 employees and increased to 400. But now comes the great story – Mr Vergestnich, you really listen, because this concerns your area –: When this company wanted to increase 180 employees in April and agreed with the Works Council on this increase, it finally failed – and this is a supplier of "Conti" in Germany and "Michelin" – to say: Two collective agreements under one roof, which is really not possible, and the collective agreement of the textile industry is impossible, which we cannot have under one roof with chemistry! Let's go to Slovakia with jobs! There they are now. There they will be built in the next six weeks. The works councilman in this work is horrified, and you as a trade unionist have to represent this in the end! [[Call to the liberals: A madness!]] I have to tell you that the times at Semperit, where Mr President-in-Office of the Council has really made decisions there, and in the end has also implemented them with the support of Mr Teschl in the interests of the company, I wish to say a bit today. If on Sunday you've followed the mission "On the Matter" – and you've certainly done that – you know – and there was no F-Politics with it! – that this has been an alarming dispute. It is not the case, as Mr Oellinger says, that in Austria we do not even look beyond our own border of plates, but we see quite clearly that we are losing jobs through global development. That's what it's all about, and you didn't anticipate that. That is why you have not created new jobs and no appropriate framework conditions. Minister! If you say now that there is a very urgent need to do something in the telecommunications sector, that is the future industry, I can only say that a knowledge which has been delayed for years, which has not only failed to ensure that you have operated the ORF as a state monopoly, but also the post and therefore not be surprised if the future industry is in our trouble and no jobs are created there! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Oellinger is quite right, but he never hears a different opinion, even if she is his. But the awareness in the field of research and development is also very slow and much too late. They know – for years all of these things have been included in our free-standing economic location concept – that research and development expenditure is well below the European average at 1.5 percent. You yourself have had to admit, in recent years, that your efforts, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which you have repeatedly announced, have failed with regard to a concentration of concerns in order to take account of this essential aspect of the creation of new jobs. But in the next period, you have said you have great hope in this again. One thing, I have to tell you, connects me to you: I too have great hope, otherwise I would not be an entrepreneur in Austria. And I regret that the two other entrepreneurs, Bartenstein and Hazelsteiner, are not here today, because these are two entrepreneurs – I would say – from difficult industries. But they also find time for Parliament, and you can't chase me out, you professional politicians, that you are constantly making use of it. That doesn't shock me at all! I'm used to that. Therefore, I will continue to speak to you from the practice – and not from the theory! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That is why today we have again tabled resolutions – 16 in the number – which you can read about all the economic and industrial sites you have developed in our years and which are partly also included in your programmes everywhere – but there for 20 years! – but not implemented. We have stimulated the special market for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have stimulated "small AG" to promote the capital market. Austria has remained developing country on the capital market, with 4 percent shareholders. The only country behind us is India. It is really the highest time, Minister, that we should also consider other possibilities in relation to the capital market and not always hear announcements from you. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But also your front at pay side costs breaks down a biterl. Ms. Dr. Krammer – unfortunately, she is not here today – has also made a suggestion regarding the 28 social security institutions. I must say that it must also have been out of our programme, because I have not yet read it in the Socialists' and the ÖVP's programme. I am very glad that you, too, are finally dealing with the loss of friction, in the cost of additional wages. These are exactly the approaches that we have always proposed. But also the Chambers of Commerce – Mr President Maderthaner, of course, is already gone, too, Mr. Stummful; I understand this, because I am ultimately insiders also at the Chamber – have a reform commission. And this Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has already presented a number of programmes to reduce the cost of the officials. When I got the first envelope as a member of the Chamber of Commerce, as an effort compensation, and gave it back and said: That's impossible what you're doing, you're giving a functional compensation that's not made up of, for three sessions in a trade union!, I've attracted some of the unwills at that time, because I'm none of those that can be so easily integrated into this way of thinking. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is significant!]] These are all things that go into the additional wage costs. They go into CU 2, and these are exactly the chamber envelopes that need to be reduced, the chamber contributions that need to be reduced. And nothing else we say! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the field of environmental energy taxes, you are also ready to rethink something. First you said what we can't do, but now you're coming. You yourself with these ideas. Also come under the Insolvency Amendment Act Now you're on the taste. I can still read to you our proposal, the Chapter 11 rule; unfortunately, the speaking time is very short today. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This makes it possible that even in the case of compensation and in the event of bankruptcy, it is not necessarily necessary to take the lead in the closure of operations. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I am already at the end of my remarks and can only tell you once again what I said in my first speech here: Stop with announcements! I appreciate you personally, Mr Minister, very much, but I do not think it makes any sense to act with interruptions. You too, Mr President,... – Have [[Abg. Conspicuously reads in a newspaper.]] You finished reading? I wish you a pleasant day in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6378	Mr Dipl.-Ing. The motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Prinzhorn is sufficiently supported; it is included in the negotiations. Mrs Hostasch has now spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6402	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Prinzhorn, when you address insolvency law here, jump on a driving train, because the negotiations on a change in insolvency law have been under way for a long time and are before the end. [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is a stroll!]] I assume that we are creating the conditions we need to ensure that the risks of insolvency are recognised in good time and that companies at risk of insolvency are safeguarded in such a way that they do not actually come into insolvency. It is therefore not a demand of the liberals, but a work of this coalition government, which it has undertaken and which it is doing in the near future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! There are certainly in your "Work for Austria" programmes a number of points that can also be found in our discussion; but these are those points which you have written down either from the Government Convention or from the catalogue of measures formulated here by the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As far as the other points are concerned, we are absolutely against it. I should now like to make a specific point on some of these points. If you say here under the theme "Work for Austria": Lowering additional labour costs, reducing taxes, cutting cost reduction strategies on the company side, but at the same time saying that this cannot be at the expense of the income of the self-employed, I believe - and I believe I can prove it - that if one looks at the structure of additional labour costs, this expectation cannot be fulfilled. This is a deception that is being done here, because more than half of the additional labour costs are directly beneficial to the workers. If one were to reduce these additional wage costs, one would have to withdraw the workers directly from the purchasing power or also take away rights, such as by reducing Christmas reforms or holiday grants, by reducing the holiday, the health allowance, or also the settlement, or by reducing holidays. [[Call to the liberals: This is wrong!]] All of these are elements of the additional wage costs, and if they are reduced, they are directly related to the claims of the employed. Since this is undifferentiated about the reduction in additional labour costs, we really have to ask ourselves: Do you want exactly that, though You say first that this must not be borne by the self-employed? Dear ladies and gentlemen! Social security contributions. – These contributions, as well as the other wage-related contributions financed by employers, contribute to the financing of the social component of our welfare state and are therefore indispensable. Anyone who demands a replacement-free removal of these contributions, this employer's social security contributions, but at the same time calls for a reduction in pensions, family allowances or restrictions on our quality... [[Abg. Böhacker: Who's asking? Who's asking?]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! They demand the total reduction of additional wage costs, and you also demand tax-financed welfare, for example. [[Abg. Mentil: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: You work with half-truths!]] That's what I'm asking myself: How do you want to reconcile tax-financed welfare with your demand for a reduction in the maximum tax rate to a maximum of 38 percent? How is this invoice to be applied if you also require a tax advantage for budget aid and a tax exemption for apprenticeship training, and also require that the overall tax reduction be reduced? – This is a square of the circle, it cannot go out. There's being deceived, there's playing with wrong cards, there's no drawing of a real picture. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Brauneder shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to take up a second idea from your work programme. They write in it – and you can't dispute that – that you are competing for free competition in health care. Have you thought about what "market mechanism" means in the health care sector? – This is despicable because the market does not take account of the weaker, does not take into account those people who need the solidarity of society. If you leave the market open for health care, the weakest ones will stay on the track. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you require insurance to go before compulsory insurance, then you take the way into this development, and this is a development that we will not accept under any circumstances, because that means that risks are pushed one another, that strong people are being played against weakness, that those people who need special support - for example families, children, families who are particularly disease-sensitive - have no chance of experiencing the same quality care through health care as everyone else. This is not a concept that we would ever give our approval! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me also say a few words about your consideration of the aggregation of the 28 social security institutions. Because you referred to Mrs Krammer earlier: In our party there is a variety of opinions, of course we allow different opinions – something that is very rare for you when it happens at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: On the question of the EU there are advocates and opponents in us!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, How many jobs are created or secured if 28 social insurance companies are to be combined? - I don't see any effect. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: You should ask yourself how much money is saved!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Ask your comrade Krammer!]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Krammer won't be a long minister anymore!]] Dr. Haider! Our social security system has a very high international importance. Our system exists every comparison with others. On the contrary: It's a better system. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: This is a nonsense that Mrs. Krammer has said!]] In Austria, 28 social insurance institutions carry out what in Belgium, for example, make 1 754 institutions, in Germany 1 170, in Switzerland about 300. In addition, there are more than 60 private insurance companies in Austria, which offer equal benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: In Austria, the local health phone is pleading! 3 billion schilling! A company has to register the bankruptcy!]] Mr. Dr. Haider! The level of health care that we can offer in Austria on statutory social security, on health insurance, is high, and we will assist the Minister of Social Affairs in his task of ensuring that the sickness benefit continues to be paid, not 26 weeks as provided for by the law, but at least 52 weeks. That this limit will be increased, we will take care of it, and you will not be able to prevent us from doing so! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: How do you want to stop the 3-billion-shilling hole?]] Because you addressed the administrative costs here: The administrative costs of the Austrian health insurance system are all compared with those of other countries. In Austria, the administrative cost contribution is less than 4 percent, in Switzerland 7.7 percent, and in Germany less than 5 percent. If you look at the calculations of the social security spouses, especially those of health insurance, you will see that over 1 billion schilling has been saved from administrative costs in recent years. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: On paper!]] But one thing you have to say already, ladies and gentlemen, The Austrian social security scheme covers the entire Austrian population, and in this comprehensive social care, the 28 social insurance institutions with their low staffing and low administrative burden are competitive with any other system. I even claim: Our system is better than other systems! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! Their concepts show that you do not focus on man, but on day-to-day headlines. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Go!]] We focus on people, we also have appropriate employment programmes and we support the government in their implementation, and we are fighting for jobs and not for a headline the next day in the newspaper.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6662	I call Mr Magistrate. Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6683	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have just heard, optimism is recommended. Optimizism is decreed, optimism is desired. Minister for Economic Affairs! I take note of the following: Optimizism is commanded! Mr Höchtl has put up another chancellor and has given us the courage of entrepreneurs to ask us to be diligent, to work, to pull the car, according to the motto: Friends, put on a little bit; you will already create the hill, you'll cremate the sleeves! Minister for Economic Affairs! Whom do they actually take courage: Are you really giving us businessmen courage, or are you giving yourself courage? They scream in the darkness so you don't fear yourself. That's your problem! We entrepreneurs don't need courage. We are already working under difficult conditions that you have to answer. Under difficult conditions, we are fighting for market prices, we are fighting for costs, and here in the House we have to let ourselves be encouraged by Mr Höchtl, who works in the protected area. This is as if someone sitting in the dry, the one marching outside in the rain, says: Run faster, you'll get less wet! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would rather you would take the whole question of Austria's economic development much more seriously and try not to fight it with prescribed optimism, but with concrete data. I'd like to listen to the Minister of Economic Affairs. He speaks of the concept of "Austrian competitiveness". He is right, so it must be: Exports stimulate, innovation, cost reduction, reduction of additional labour costs and red tape. I congratulate you, Minister of Economic Affairs, on this! Only: Mr. Dr. Ditz, one question: Then why don't you do it? They have recently pursued a package of savings by Parliament. However, as far as I remember correctly, there was no cost reduction programme for companies. You will certainly get up and tell – I thank you now for the additional hour – how you have reduced the additional wage costs. Well, taxation of works contracts is not an additional cost! Perhaps I should ask Mrs Hostasch what this is; she has just explained what additional labour costs are. – Do you know what this is, Minister of Economic Affairs? This is an increase in labour costs! But this obviously does not make the fight between costs and market prices easier. But you are giving us courage, Minister of Economic Affairs, we would already be able to work. We can't do anything else anyway. There's nothing else left. Federal Minister! They have entered into a'Art Protection Agreement'. You must have agreed to this in the Council of Ministers. All of a sudden, 50-year-old notice is more expensive. My friend Hazelsteiner has already been able to prove to you that this will lead – and it already leads to – that unfortunately – I emphasize: unfortunately! – 49 years old are already released. Faith Do you really think that with such reactionary measures, such rigid government measures, you can offer the difficult phenomenon of unemployment Paroli by concluding a 'artifacts' agreement?- Oh, my God! Applications You now have the protection of termination for 45 years, or at all a protection of termination for all, as Mr President. Dohr said? Mr Dohr said in November 1994 that the unscrupulous sentence on the world of work was: I would like more people to be pragmatic. – Yes, where do you think we are: in the cloud-cuckoo home of the economy or on the hard ground of the business economy, where, Mr Federal Minister, we deserve the added value that you spend? Please take note! [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Tourism is a pure delight.- Courage! You only have to have courage, ladies and gentlemen, then overcome the hard currency policy! With optimism you have to fight against a high wage country! The only chance is optimism and courage! Federal Minister! Tourism is successful. Austrian tourism will remain successful. Austrian tourism remains at the forefront of Europe. Only you need to note: With regard to the economic data we have, with the market price paid by the market, and the costs you have imposed on us by your policy, a maximum of two thirds of the farms will survive. In the last three or four years, foreign exchange revenue in the tourism sector has fallen from 8.5 percent in gross domestic product to 6.5 percent. But they simply did this with beautiful words. They have promised a new advertising and marketing concept. It is expected to come in June 1996. I thank you for that now. We will read it critically. Only: Since then, some time has passed. As early as March 1994, I told you what the tourism industry is all about. At that time I had to be described as a messmaker. Unfortunately, I was right. I do not want to be right, I want you to be right, Minister of Economic Affairs. It is much more beautiful when everything is optimistic and blue and purple and violet. Only that's not the reality! To do politics in the cloud-cuckoo house at Schubertring is something different than to run a paper factory such as Mr. Prinzhorn or a construction company or a hotel outside in the desert, where you really have to work. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] So capital formation in tourism is promoted. Minister of Economic Affairs, I congratulate you! That's really epochal. Please do it! That's very, very important. But do you really believe, Federal Minister, that if you are now the only really specialized tourist promotion institution, the Austrian hotel loyalty, you are in the big BÜRGES, because you obviously have a more Party-political access to the promotion policy, something is changing? The Swiss have their tourism finance company, the tourism credit society, which knows that, by making tourism promotion, one unites the promotion of tourism capital and equity in one hand. No, Dorn makes it better in the BÜRGES than stock hammers or mosquitoes in the ÖHT, both of which are black. I can assure you, both stock hammers and mosquitoes, are stock black. [[Interlocutory call from Federal Minister Dr. Ditz.]] My God, I tell you, I already take note: However, please note that, if VAT and excise duties are not possible, we will only have 100 million more returns in 2000 and that foreign exchange revenue will only account for 5% of gross domestic product. I'm eager to hear what excuses I'm going to have to hear from you. You'll be proclaimed by optimism. Courage, will tell Höchtl. Then it'll be called: Dear entrepreneur, work a little more, then it'll be all right! – Economic policy is not that simple! We can't take it that way. Thankfully, the Minister for Social Affairs has already learned many things in his department. He said that full employment was not acceptable. – My compliment, Minister of Social Affairs! That is a real word! Mr Sozialminister, you have not said anything about how you will proceed to achieve the necessary unbundling between the social security network and labour income. Mr Sozialminister, you have not given an opinion on how you imagine basic security in our Republic. This is a very, very sensitive issue, a political issue that has been pushed out for a long time. Only: It is clear that the necessary basic security for all citizens of our society is obviously no longer working on labour income. We Liberals do not claim to have a patent solution on this issue, but we invite you – we would have liked you to have a first opinion today – to think about how we can rethink the social security network in line with the change of society, how we can achieve the separation between labour income and social security – a more difficult, but all the more important and necessary task. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few comments of a basic nature. I would be pleased if they were to be understood as the basis of this debate. There is no doubt that economies are not self-evident, but must be oriented towards the satisfaction of customer needs. From a high level of prosperity, secured by a dense social network, we need to learn again: Design of working time to adapt to the wishes of our customers. We in the House are discussing far too much about the problems we all have with distribution policy and social security. Only, we understand one thing: The distribution policy and social security are the source of the value added that was previously earned, and value added is only earned through markets, value added only through customers, value added is earned only if you understand what customers ultimately want. We are discussing the whole question of employment policy and labour policy in our country across all sectors. That's not right. There are big differences. For example, the primary sector, the agricultural sector, has already completed its rationalisation; there are no more additional jobs to get. In the secondary sector, an unheard-of rationalisation wave is in progress, as working time reductions will be possible due to productivity increases due to longer machine life. There is only a chance of employment in the tertiary sector, and those who devalue employment in the tertiary sector will be able to offset employment opportunities in that country. It is not inhumane or subservient or the honor of a human being to work in the field of personal service. There is a lot of work where there is no more demand today because it has become too expensive. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs and Social Affairs! Where are your framework conditions specific to the tertiary sector, which eventually changes in part into the quarterly sector? These include insurance, the banks, all that where the telecommunications revolution allows for higher productivity and thus also rationalizations and releases. How will you answer that? Where are the concepts of this Federal Government, how to shape the framework conditions for work in the newly formed district sector? How do you want to make it possible to benefit from employment opportunities in the remaining tertiary sector, the personal service? I come again with the American example because it is not enough for me to work out what is bad about American society. There are certainly developments in American society that we do not support liberals who do not even want to tolerate because for us the social security of man is the basis for his freedom. And those who are not free, those who are not self-determined, cannot ultimately be creative and productive.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6795	Excuse me! The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6810	I think we have 20 minutes, Mr President. 10 minutes are only a voluntary limitation. We split it differently.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6828	Excuse me! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6844	American society has managed to transform its society through a perfect customer orientation, by focusing on customer wishes. They had difficulties in the 1980s, and there were errors, and there are still misdevelopments in American society today. But take note: In America, from 1983 to 1996, the 27 million new jobs were created! If this is calculated in Austria, this would have to be well over 1 million new jobs. Let us not only criticize large-scale, Europeanly superlative America, let us also learn from the example of America. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not approach the social security network in principle and thus the additional labour costs, we will not be able to reduce labour costs in the event of maintaining gross wages. If we are not prepared to take the step, to exchange energy taxes or resources at additional wage costs, we will lose a chance of productivity and thus a chance of employment. Let me conclude by saying: I am convinced - and I believe you share our opinion, Minister of Economic Affairs - that Austrian society in the Second Republic is facing its biggest challenge today. The industrial society old embossing has run into a dead end: It is investing more and more capital to exploit more and more resources and to make more people unemployed. We don't get along with old recipes. The chance is in change. The opportunity lies in understanding change as a challenge. But that is because we ourselves are transformable and lead a whole series of holy cows to the slaughter bank. New markets in the reform states, the accession to the internal market and the liberalisation of world trade bring not only greater competition in our country but also greater market opportunities. We are at the brink of our development. Experiences of the past become the anti-dote of the present. The defence of old possessions only increases the adjustment pressure of tomorrow and threatens the previously achieved. New jobs are created by adapting obsolete standards to the reality of markets. We Liberals want to find ways through offensive measures out of the threatening danger of the two-thirds society.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6883	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to remind you of the agreement in the President's office, after which every second speaker speaks for a maximum of 10 minutes. That was a gentlemen’s/Gentle Women’s Agreement – I admit that – but now, I believe, it is binding. The next item is the speech by Mr Schwarzenberger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e6913	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A few words on the comments made by Mr Peter: I would like to mention here an unwarranted witness, the former Minister of Economic Affairs Schiller, who has shaped the sentence: 50 percent of the economic development can be affected by the psychological. This means, as I would like to repeat Mr Höchtl's sentence, that it is better for economic development to make it more courageous than something to do, honourable Member Peter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Peter.]] Have the old-known proverb: "The world belongs to the brave!" Forget about it? Because this is willing to invest in the future, create jobs and contribute positively for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, jobs cannot be ordered – that is logical. For the creation of jobs, there can be no patent recipes, but what we need to do is to shape the framework in such a way that we can exist in European competition, and there is a partial lack of them. Measures in this respect have already been put in place. The Structural Adjustment Act has overall been designed to ensure that additional labour costs and therefore unit costs are not increased in order to maintain competitiveness. For the development of our country, the preservation and creation of jobs are particularly important in rural regions, because at least half of the Austrian population lives in rural regions and not in cities. And only if we manage to secure rural areas as an economic location will rural areas be able to offer a quality of life comparable to those in the cities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the context of the village renewal projects, additional jobs can be created while at the same time improving the quality of life in the villages. It is therefore not right for Member Haider, as he did in his speech, to demand the abolition of the municipal tax, since it is an important financial instrument for the communities. If the municipalities can no longer invest, jobs and quality of life are at risk there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Another very important factor for rural areas is the safeguarding of rural farming, which is a large number of jobs in the remote and downstream areas. In the food sector alone, we have around 80 000 jobs in Austria. We also have a lot of jobs in the agricultural machinery sector, in the means industry, in the rural regions. But we also have a lot of jobs in the field of woodworking industries in Austria – as the most wooded country in Central Europe, we can supply the raw materials for this branch. What we need in this area is a stronger domestic value added. It is often the case that we export the raw materials and then import the processed products. Especially in the woodworking industry, for which we have, so to speak, renewable raw materials, it would be a command of the hour to invest for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the agricultural sector and in the food processing sector, we have had a very protected market in Austria over the last few decades, and this has not necessarily led to rationalisation in order to be able to survive in European competition. The more appropriate it is now to quickly implement the possibilities required, for example, sectoral plans, 5b programmes, so that our businesses can absorb this delay in rationalisation towards other European countries by means of financial assistance. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Tychtl.]] The aim cannot, however, be a full liberalisation, because it is not compatible with environmentally conscious agriculture, as we understand it in Austria. We cannot be competitive if we sell the cheapest products on the European market in our supermarkets, but we need a vote that production will be adapted to consumption in Europe. That is why we will also need production quotas in the future. However, we still need the compensation instrument in order to obtain a comprehensive settlement in the mountain areas. Although we have a ten-year transitional period for mining aid, we have a desire for a pan-European solution with base amounts so that our small farms in the mountain areas can remain with the appropriate support and the sons and daughters are ready to take over the farms. I am pleased that Minister for Economic Affairs Ditz has announced that further liberalisation of the trade regulations is being worked on. In this regard, we have wishes. It is intended to create opportunities for agriculture together with the farms, the farmers of the place, because the additional value added in agriculture or in the village means jobs for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In this sense, an effective agricultural policy should not be underestimated as a support for the labour market and economic location of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7021	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Chief. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7042	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to be in trouble because of my speaking time, I would like to begin by reading the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Head and Mr Dolinschek, in order to ensure that it has been properly implemented in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Quoted print version removed]] A number of previous speakers, including Mrs Hostasch and Mr Vergestnich from the Socialist Group, have already discussed this request in her statement. In the run-up to today's debate, although he has not yet been brought in, he has obviously not been hidden from them, much to the difference from Mr Ditz, who, after his and after the presentation of our Federal Party chairman Dr. Haider, said that there is no single proposal from the liberals at today's meeting. Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Ditz! I hope that, in the meantime, you have at least made the effort to look at the 16 requests made by the Bureau as a convoluted one, and at least review this point of your inaccurate polemics from the government bank. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The debate that has been held here today on this subject is actually confusing. You, Mr Ditz, have meant that we are bringing money to state, countries and communities and inventing any employment effects that do not occur. I tell you clearly and clearly the following: The Liberal Group here in Parliament, since it has been here in Parliament, has always been committed to making as much money as possible available to workers and entrepreneurs and to allowing as much state as possible – from the municipalities to the Federal Government – as it is necessary. In this connection, Mrs Hostasch, and you, Mr Vergestnich, I may write the following to you in the main book: At the most positive – positive! – Criteria will become 62% of the employment effect from a tax schilling. However, the average is 32 to 36 groschen per tax schilling, which flows back into the economy – the rest goes to the administration or also to the corresponding chambers and social security contributions, which then use this money for their own employment in discussion rounds, namely, past employment policy. That is why our requests are retiring – if you actually leave the money where it was then well withdrawn. Since the former Federal Minister Lösnak is sitting here in plenary today, please refer to the following – Mrs Hostasch, you have discussed the health policy of the liberals –: In 1986 and 1987, when Löschnak was the Chancellor's Minister of Health, 15 percent of Austrian health care costs were borne by private health insurance. They have brought it to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in nine years of red and black unit party in Austria you have carried out a redistribution of poor too rich. Now, the cost of private health insurance amounts to between 5 and 9 percent – different from one country to another. Many people who had been in private health insurance for 20 or 30 years in their working life had to cancel health insurance when they retired because of the exorbitant costs. The working time arrangements for doctors and primary doctors, which I believe we had well negotiated with Löschnak in 1986/87, in order to prevent double and triple employment in this area and thus to keep patients in the primary sector with good and international reputation in public hospitals and not in the private sector, where they only earn themselves, have not come to this day, nine years later. I do not let it apply if the liberals here are tossed into uncertainty policy. In the last nine years, the two government parties have had the sole and exclusive responsibility to do so! I also think it is simply frivolous when the former vice-president of Vienna, Mayr, now directs us through Austrian television, why there has been nothing going on in health policy. Everyone who was here in Parliament at the time knows who the failure of these future-looking regulations, who is responsible for this redistribution from poor to rich in Austria, namely Mr. Vice-Citizen Mayr, who today failed in retirement than at the time when he was still residing in the office of the municipality of Vienna. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Let me say the following about health policy and employment in this area: The social partners are crying out, the rules that come out are not effective! Look at the performance-oriented hospital financing system. It will be of no use to us if we look at the performance-oriented hospital financing in isolation and do not involve the environment, the established doctors and the representatives of the other health and health professions in the appropriate form. I also say this with regard to the current debate on costs in the pharmaceutical sector. Federal Minister! Do not be blinded: We in Austria have seen a sub-academicisation across Europe. From 23 OECD countries, we have the lowest academic rate in Austria, although we hold the leadership position for the Maturants and for the courses of 60 percent. In this area, the Federal Government has done nothing in the past nine years – whether the blacks have been sitting in the ministry, Busek and Consorten, or whether it is now Mr. Wissenschaftsminister Scholten: The blatant errors in the Austrian education system have not been fixed in the last ten years! There was no launch of a European offensive! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A country trying to enter a highly technologicalized environment from an extended workbench has clearly failed in the top range of training. And this failure will have an impact on Austria for 10 to 15 years, because even if you start an educational offensive now and now, due to university autonomy efforts, one or another will turn to the better, the sins of the last 10 years in the next 15, 20 years will have a hard time fighting on a world market that is opening itself. Mr Schwarzenberger here in front of me in his speech apostrophic the rural area and meant that we would forget about it. I ask you, Mr Schwarzenberger: Where are the initiatives of the Federal Government to provide rural areas, for example in the high-tech sector, with suitable stand lines for computerized businesses, for the transfer of data workplaces to the home? There is a gap between urbanized and rural areas. The cities are the first to come in, the rural area must wait, as one must wait for the postal information when everything is occupied and it says: Please wait! Please wait! Please wait! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We in the federal states know very well: The large companies have moved their international headquarters to Vienna, because they arrive at their former headquarters outside – whether they were with us in Carinthia, with you in Salzburg or in Upper Austria – too late to reach international contacts, the high-performance data systems, so that they can communicate with their businesses in a timely, fast manner and work in the appropriate form. These are homemade problems. I am not responsible for this either the EU or anyone else, but those ladies and gentlemen who were responsible for it, and you, who have put the majority here in plenary in the last nine years and made the wall against better knowledge. For, Mr Schwarzenberger, if you listen to me, you can see: You know what it is all about, but for nine years you have consistently agreed to the disadvantage of rural areas. - These are the scandals! This is the policy of uncertainty! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to say something to you, Mr Schwarzenberger: You do not need to demonstrate dissatisfaction in the Austrian population in Sunday's speeches. The Austrian population is therefore dissatisfied because, between the announcement policy of this federal government, between the promises of ÖVP and SPÖ in the election campaign and the current policy you are implementing, there is a blatant gap. The data now collected are not due to uncertainty policies of red, black, liberal or anyone else, but are solely and exclusively the merit of this federal government. If you turn on the TV, see the social partners discuss. promised on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday They provide the people with better information on television for workers, businesses, SMEs, entrepreneurs, health care, and on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays – in the plenary week for the budget – the same representatives are sitting here in Parliament and voting against their own requests that you have ventilated to Mr Rabl or to someone else on television on Sundays. This brings about the loss of credibility of politics, which is a downturn of politicians as a whole. You are fully and solely responsible for this by the government bank and you from among the government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friend.]] You don't need to take us into the train number, you don't need to make the other opposition parties responsible, but that's home-made uncertainty policy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I have to say to the Social Democrats: You always accuse us of liberal populism, but Mrs. Ederer, since the 1995 election campaign you have no reason at all, because since Kreisky's time there has been no such populist election campaign in Austria. And we liberals are proud of the fact that we have never resorted to this narrow tile of populist politics in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7209	The text of the motion for a resolution is properly submitted, duly supported and is under negotiation. Mrs Reitsamer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7233	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to pick out a few pieces from the paper "Work for Austria". It has already been said on a number of points, but "insurance duty instead of compulsory insurance" inspires me to lose a few words. You want from the liberals who always want you to be a lawyer of the "little man", the "little woman" here, that healthy young people have benefits and that the elderly, the sick stay on the track, that it means one, two diseases: Insurance premiums must be increased. So they are not satisfied with the system, which ensures 7.8 million Austrians, that is 99 percent of the Austrian population. You can break that on your tongue! They also call for a concentration of social partners at the operational level. A lot has already been said about this. But for me, unless that already works at the operational level, that means a rejection to the collective contract level. I've said it here before: The collective agreement is the safety net for the working population. We won't give him up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A special Gustopückerl can be found under the heading "Separation of additional labour costs". Reimbursement of wages by self-insurance of employees who receive the previous expenses of the service provider. If he receives these expenses from the service provider, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how you want to reduce the additional wage costs in this way. This will probably be such a back door action again: First, hit that, then take it away, and the employee should look where he is staying. Mr Haider has expressed his support today for the fact that there are no cuts. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Read it!]] He told us something about the PWA Hallein, that's by chance my district. It is true that the Directorate called for workers to work free of charge for one hour per week in order to maintain competitiveness. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Four!]] One hour per week. That's four hours a month, Mr. Haider. This is one of the basic accounting methods. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Four hours a week!]] But it doesn't matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Are you defending the PWA?]] No, but this has been rejected by the Works Council and by the trade unions, and you have forgotten to say here how you always like to forget something. Half a sentence is also sufficient to create uncertainty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the following comments were made: There was no threat from the employer if the workforce were not willing to do so. I have to say that too. Here your statements were not quite correct. Another demand from you: more time autonomy for businesses; in parentheses: without loss of income for employees. That's good. That sounds very good. But I ask you: Where does the second autonomy of workers remain? And if something sounds so good, it is always suspicious, because what has to do with the extra services that automatically result from such a time autonomy of the businesses, you hide it shamefully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I noticed another special casto piece: Control of overtime. Ladies and gentlemen! That sounds incredibly good. Workers will be happy if they no longer have to pay taxes for overtime. They'll do more overtime. And if you claim in your paper that the removal of overtime supplements and time credits does not create new jobs, I say to you: neither does the disposal of overtime. She's more likely to be called a job killer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Another wishful thought: Tax relief for budgetary assistance. It's always going through this house again and again. It may already be that one job or another is created with it. But at what price, please, ladies and gentlemen? The service providers, who can afford a budget support, can also drop them off. What about the child care costs for those who are forced to go to work to get the family at all? That's what I'm asking you now! All of this is called "Work for Austria", presented by ladies and gentlemen, by the party chairman of the Freeman and by his spokesperson. At this point, I would like to remind you of something that has taken place here during the budgetary negotiations. There, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Liberals, was here at the speaker's desk and actually brought a cell phone out of his pocket and said that he was tied to a foreign network because it was much cheaper. – In this style, he seems to want to continue. A man who is sworn to the Republic of Austria says here, under the applause of the listeners, how to destroy Austrian jobs. I find that very remarkable! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: Whoever has the Semperit on the conscience should rather keep his mouth shut!]] When I have to keep my mouth shut, Mr Haider, I'm sure you won't tell me! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haider: destroyed 1 400 jobs!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Have you ever secured one, Dr. Haider?]] As far as the desirable views of the East's reform states are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you that no harmonisation is going down. If we want to integrate these countries, we must see that they comply with social and environmental standards at about the same level as we do. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is constantly happening – sometimes hidden, sometimes more open – that the problems we have in the labour market are to be carried out mostly on the back of the workers. Mr Hums has already said here today that we have a very high level of employment, but that we are still concerned about the labour market situation. But this high level of employment, Ladies and gentlemen, the government has reached without the "F". The liberals cannot go out of here and constantly accuse the government of sluggishness. These problems require a social partnership solution. It is time to organize work differently. You can also flexibilize them, you have to distribute them differently – but with mutual participation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this context, it should not be ignored that the framework conditions must only be integrated into collective agreements that the protection function and the standards of the Working Time Act must not be undermined. We are also against extreme forms like KAPOVAZ and standby. We've already deposited all of this here in a majority way. So far, the proposals, including those for the extension of daily working hours, are more to be seen as a cost reduction programme for entrepreneurs than for the creation of additional jobs. In order to secure jobs, it is also necessary to touch hot iron. I have already spoken about flexibilization, which has already been argued by the government bank today. But as has been said, while complying with the above-mentioned minimum standards. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not pretend that the problems in the labour market can only be found here in Austria. All industrialized countries have these problems. From this point of view, Mr. Stadler's statement on Sunday, the "prior to-the-government" appears in a very special light. They do not wait until the measures adopted here are taken; They'll make them ready. We, ladies and gentlemen, will be measured by how we get to grips with the problems – admittedly big ones. But one thing is said here: Social democracy is not available for solutions carried out exclusively on the back of workers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Work for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! With this special meeting, the "F" has managed to block over time members of the Federal Government and officials of the social partners for whom job creation and maintenance have the highest priority. Mr and Mrs Österreicher will be aware of this.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7417	Mrs Schaffenrath is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7439	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Reitsamer has already made it sound: We have problems. The liberals have taken this opportunity to convene a special meeting here today: Work for Austria. I think it is clear to all of us that the situation on the Austrian labour market has become much worse. But what is no longer surprising to me in the meantime is that neither the SPÖ Members nor the EIA MPs will be discussing or discussing this particular situation of women on the labour market. The reasons for the intensification of the situation have already been made clear by my previous speaker Peter. Only: This worse situation has long been for women, it has been so in the past, and in the future our situation will unfortunately not improve either. And I will not get tired of saying from this point of view that women are disadvantaged in the labour market. It is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that women are longer unemployed, that they are less affected by unemployment. I do not even want to talk about the fact that the paycheck opens even further and that the difference in payment is more than a third. I would also like to say here once again that the order of order and, as a complement, that the employment rate for women in Austria is only a moderate average, it is about 55 percent. This means that we are only close to Portugal and far behind comparable countries, such as Sweden, which can at least have a female employment rate of 93 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is also a lack of framework conditions for this, but I do not want to point out in detail all these shortcomings of the government parties. But this amplification will become even more evident. They have decided here in this House a bonus malus system which will not only have a general adverse effect, but is particularly discriminatory against women. In Austria, there is still a ban on night work for women, and there is still a debate on front-end protection mechanisms which certainly do not contribute to the creation of women's jobs, because red tape is still intended to decide what is reasonable for us women and what is not. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Meisinger]] There are still conditions for farms which will certainly not contribute to the creation of women's jobs, because they are cost-intensive. In addition, in this last coalition agreement, I miss at least the impetus for the creation of women's jobs, at least as a statement of intent in the 1994 Coalition Convention. [[Congratulations at the Liberal Forum.]] In addition, more women will now be forced into the labour market. Some of them are involuntary, as – under quotation marks – "sacrifice of the savings package", others of course – and this is the pleasant, colleague Kier has already pointed out – due to improved self-conception, due to better qualification. Women, especially young women, pick up. It has simply become clear to women that only a part of this paid work will ultimately ensure them an independent and self-determined life. Women already had an excessive share in some areas of work. In fact, women continue to do much more when it comes to so-called unpaid work, care work, care work, and they also generate a high share of the added value of the State. The ratio is really very uneven: 70 percent of women's work is unpaid, 30 percent of women's work is paid. It is not surprising, however, that in men the ratio is quite the opposite. This unpaid work does not guarantee women a share of wealth, but actually leads them in a double way into dependence: On the one hand, they depend on the income of their husband, on the man’s benevolence to share this income with them. That they do not have any social security, this is a problem that must be addressed at last, and at the latest now. That is why we need to put in place measures here. We must finally reassess the work, especially the typical women's work. We must finally re-distribut the unpaid and paid work. We must ensure that unpaid work, care work, care work also brings social security. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum, as well as on Mr Horngacher and Mr Gatterer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that this work can be redistributed requires that rights and obligations between men and women are finally re-distributed, fairer, better distributed. Only: Unfortunately, we are still far away. However, there are also women who do paid work and still do not have social security. I am now referring to the increasing number of minor employees, which has increased from around 100 000 to 150 000 over the last two years, two thirds of which are women. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Karenz money drawers!]] Many of these women have several minor jobs, are de facto full-time employed, they can secure their existence, but they still have no chance of social security. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Mrs. Colleague! Many of them are carnage payers!]] But Mr Khol, you already know what the share of the pensioners is. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Ask the Minister of Social Affairs!]] I am referring to this large number of women, which I am not yet talking about, which are not even statistically covered and which are trying to gain at least their livelihood in the field of minor employment. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: These are few!]] Mr Khol! You have a very special access when it comes to women's problems: Dispelling is your method, mine is not, honestly, I would rather face problems openly. [[Congratulations on the Liberal Forum and on the Greens.]] It is precisely these small employees who need our special attention. I would like to ask you, Mr Social Minister and also Mrs Hostasch, from the Chamber of Labour, at last to ensure that this problem is addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Aumayr.]] Although I do not know what you mean by "sexist", I hope you have opposed a colleague, I think this is always very reasonable, Mrs Colleague. We need a great deal of rethinking in this regard. We simply need new working time models. Unfortunately, our working world is still only geared to full-time employment; we need more part-time jobs. Unfortunately, the social impact is still such that part-time jobs are women's jobs. There's a need for rethinking. However, we also need new forms of work, job sharing, teleworking, outsourced work, and, most importantly, these new forms of work must not be transferred to full-time jobs under tax or social law. There must be no disadvantages there, and this is also in the very special interest of women. But there will be further disadvantages. In the future, the technologicalization of the working world will be particularly detrimental to women who are still under-represented in the technical fields. I miss approaches to education policy. The educational offensive, which the honourable Member has also spoken about, which we have been promised, is not even slowing down. I miss measures for life-long learning. There will be a need for special programmes, special measures for women, because, despite all efforts, educational deficits have to be picked up. We still have the second highest rate of discrimination in Austria, only Australia is worse than we are. Education differences between men and women are particularly high in Austria. A whole set of measures is therefore necessary, the challenge is great. We need different framework conditions. Of course, the economy needs those conditions which make work more manageable again, but I am calling for a fairer distribution of work from this point of view, and I think it is finally time for women to get their share of this work.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7548	Mr Dr. Stummful is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7570	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We would have had the opportunity today to hold a principle debate on our economy, about an area of our society which is currently facing an incredibly big challenge. I say it quite openly and don't make any of it. What bothers me about such debates as today is that we always do this opportunity, because the opposition acts in a simple black and white painting – I would say: Everything that comes from the government is bad, but you are in possession of the absolute truth. – That can’t be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You'll hear it in my speech. I'm not gonna defend everything that comes from the government here. But please be so honest and admit that not everything the government has done is bad. You can't discuss matters with you. This special meeting is another opportunity that was rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You say that every time!]] It is basically a abuse of Parliament, Mr Klubobmann Haider, if you just take a show here! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] On the credibility of the Group of the European People's Party, ladies and gentlemen: I do not want to spread about this case here now, therefore only so much: Last time a colleague from your group said something about my daughter. I then explained everything to this colleague from your group and even showed her the contract of service. Today, however, a question is again being asked here in Parliament for the same causa. For me, it is a question of character, how to deal with the truth. – If I explain to a Member of an opposition party exactly how something is happening, and I even show her the service contract in question, and yet, with better knowledge, I ask her a parliamentary request – unfortunately, it is also signed by Thomas Prinzhorn, the minister of the party – then I really wonder if a positive cooperation with people with such characteristics is still possible. Ladies and gentlemen! What I have said now I say in full knowledge of what this statement means. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now on the main topic: We're worried about our economy. I have already found out and I will now go further into the fact that I am not prepared to paint everything pink here, so as a representative of a government party, I am going to explain that everything is a delight and a washing pot. We have big problems, we are faced with challenges that we have never had before: The internal market means tougher competition, Eastern Europe means harder competition, monetary turbulence means harder competition. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I come to the home-made problems: Jobkiller Number one in Austria is today the bureaucracy. That is why I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs, who today, from the Government Bank, has made a very clear commitment to a radical reduction in bureaucracy. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Rosenstingl.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are discussing with entrepreneurs today, then... [[Abg. Dr. Haider: What is it then?]] You don't know that? Perhaps you will have too few debates with entrepreneurs! Today, when you discuss with entrepreneurs, you can see that the savings package is not the issue, not the taxes, but the issue of number one is the bureaucracy. Entrepreneurs say: We like to be willing to do something, we are also willing to pay taxes, but if one is suppressed by bureaucracy, then it contradicts the spirit of entrepreneurship. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: 14 days ago, you asked for tax reductions for profits not collected! Now you're talking completely different again!]] You have exhausted your speaking time, but you can report again, but please leave me my ten minutes speaking time! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] First point: What is happening today – as Mr Schlögl has already said – in the field of EU statistics at the Statistical Centre, ladies and gentlemen, is basically unheard of. Such a paper war has arisen that many entrepreneurs say: I just can't do that anymore! [[As a result of this, it was not possible to find a solution to this problem. Böhacker.]] Second example, Mr Sozialminister. I am not going to go into detail now, but we have to pay great attention to the rules on implementing the Workers' Protection Act when it comes to health and worker protection, that it is not just bureaucracy and harassment. We're going to have talks about this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Criticism of bureaucracy is therefore currently the subject of number one among entrepreneurs. The second issue is the criticism of the lack of flexibility, from which I do not make any locusts here, ladies and gentlemen, even to my friends from the trade union side: I really do not understand the attitude of many trade unionists on the question of flexible working hours. The development in practice is totally contrary to the law, and more and more workers – which I regret, I stress, so that there is no misunderstanding – will leave the union, the more they realize that there are interests that do not serve to safeguard jobs. I spoke three hours ago to an entrepreneur, Dr Rudda from Heidenreichstein. Last Saturday a trade fair was held in Heidenreichstein for the recovery of the economy so that the purchasing power in the region remains. But what happened there? – A secretary of the GPA has refunded ad because a provision of the labour rest law – it was Saturday – has been violated. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't do that! We open the plants there, we show the power of these plants: And then a trade union secretary arrives and shows these businesses because they violate any provision of the labour rest law. – This is not job security, as we imagine it! – Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The trade unionist has his job!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grabner.]] I am now consciously speaking to the other side. Ladies and gentlemen! What we need now is the very simple realization: I then have to sell work when work is there, I have to when customers are there. I have to serve guests when guests are there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So we need more flexibility. We need to get rid of this rigid scheme of time. Flexibility is needed now if we take job security seriously, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Haider: You're ten years in the government! You've been the Minister of Economic Affairs for ten years! Why don't you guys do anything?]] Finally, I would like to say something about economic promotion: Thank God Austria is still attractive as an investment country for foreign investors. In conversation with potential foreign investors, these always asked the question: When I invest with you, I get economic promotion and – if so – how much? This question has long changed. Today, the question is: If I decide to invest in Austria, when can I start? Ladies and gentlemen! If we have to say that an appropriate procedure can take up to two and a half years, then it may happen that the potential investor says: No, thank you, I'd rather go to Spain, Ireland or any other country. – That is, it is quite right what the Minister of Economic Affairs has announced: We need to achieve a radical simplification of the operating authorisation procedures. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This also concerns the ÖVPlers in Lower Austria!]] I am talking about the future, Mrs Colleague. And we face major challenges in this area. I don't discuss it like you, everything black and white. I admit that there are some problems that have not yet been solved, but we will solve them. We trust that this government will solve the problems despite the opposition's suffering. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Mrs. Colleague! I wouldn't have said it otherwise, but now I do it: Today, each of your speakers has done what policy should not do, namely to fear and dismay. However, politics's task is to take courage – and not to mess with it. Remember that!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7761	I call Mr Böhacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7782	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to begin by bringing forward four motions for resolutions. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! Mr Höchtl is not in the hall now. He meant that the Austrian economy needs Mutmacher and not a messmaker. It would have been wrong for Mr Höchtl to knock on his own chest and say: Men like me need the land! Mr Höchtl may be able to address the following: Unlike him, I meet entrepreneurs every day in the course of my professional activity, and precisely these entrepreneurs – from the small Einmann company up to the manufacturer with 500 to 600 employees – are those who are critical of the situation in Austria. – We liberals are not a messmaker! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I can observe one for almost three decades now: There is always an up and down in the economy. In situations such as the current one, if, for example, an annual accounts or an economic plan are drawn up for the following year, there are just critical comments. – Minister of State! Mr Höchtl! However, I reject with all my determination that all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Austria will be put down as a messmaker! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister! In your remarks you have once again given the best of the fairy tale of the low unemployment rate. But you have forgotten to say what price we pay for it. – Minister of State! You know very well: We in Austria have the highest number of early pensioners. We have the longest duration of study. Each fifth staff member is employed in the public service. 70 percent of academics live in the public sector. Young people who have never had a job seem not to appear in these statistics. This is the result of this low unemployment rate. And that, Minister of State, is the beauty that we blame you. In this area, you would need decisive action. Federal Minister! You have also requested a tax fee. I should like to remind you - you probably have forgotten - that almost a decade ago this House granted the Minister of Finance the power to adopt the corresponding set-aside directives. – So get active in the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ask your colleagues to finally adopt these package directives! And keep the board from repeatedly preventing the adoption of these fixation guidelines for small-scale reasons. Federal Minister! They have meant that founding savings are a good thing. – I agree. That's quite right. This is an old demand of the Freeman, but also of the Austrian People's Party. – You have, however, forgotten to tell us why you have not already implemented the project concerning founding savings. And They have also not pointed out that the premiums to be paid in the future can no longer and no less be paid for just the first two annual rates of the minimum corporation tax! My colleague, Mr Stumpfully, has strengthened the Minister in stating that red tape is the most important element in the Austrian economy's demands. – Agreed, completely d’accord! 37 billion Schilling costs the Austrian economy the activity as a volunteer "state accountant". There's a study on this. – I now ask the question again – Mr Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You are in the government –: Why has nothing really happened? – You really have a partner in relation to the red tape reduction in us Freeman! But nothing happened! On the contrary: With this structural adjustment law, you will introduce an elaborate bureaucracy, as it has never existed before. Mr. Federal Minister Hums! The social insurance obligation for the special works contracts is a major enendment, in the form currently in place and in practice not feasible. I would not like to tell you here, Minister Hums, what I have written to wage earners from many companies. My own wage calculator told me to set you up. I cannot tell you, however, because otherwise the President would withdraw my speech. Unfortunately, these words are not ready to print. Maybe I can tell you in a personal conversation. – I believe that this social insurance obligation for works contracts is unconstitutional. Mr. Federal Minister Hums! Nevertheless, I am extending a compliment to you! You still have a spark of rule of law in your mind, because you have not allowed this provision to be lifted in constitutional order, quite contrary to your colleague-in-law climate, which has not failed to bring tax provisions into the constitutional order, thus restricting the fundamental rights of Austrian citizens accordingly. Federal Minister! You have told us today that you have adopted an operating tax system. – I ask you: How do you justify the different taxation of undertakings dependent on the legal form? Federal Minister! Skill Do you not imagine that in the field of corporate taxation, individual companies and individual companies have the option of being taxed according to the principles of corporate tax law? It's supposed to be an option, there should be no compulsion! In a capital company, profits that are not distributed are taxed at 34 percent. In the case of individual entrepreneurs and in the case of the individual company, profits are treated equally, regardless of whether they are distributed, removed or reinvested. – This is a tax injustice! Mr President, Mr Maderthaner once again called the drink tax 'on the matter' and called for the abolition of it. [[Interlocutory call from Federal Minister Dr. Ditz.]] 200 000 signatures were handed over to the President. [[Further call from Federal Minister Dr. Ditz.]] Mr Ditz! President Maderthaner is not here either, so I now ask you: Why do you repeatedly reject requests from us for the abolition of the drinking tax while replacing the income to the communities? – That, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, is a classic dual practice of the Austrian People’s Party! This is populism in pure culture! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7966	Your speaking time is over! The final sentence, Mr Deputies, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e7982	You have accused Mr Klubobmann Haider of being, in general, all entrepreneurs as tax evaders. - That's wrong. Federal Minister! Klubobmann Dr. Haider here clearly demanded that professional tax evasioners and tax frauds be severely punished and arrested for them. The fact that you are standing on the side of those tax fraud is something we cannot take note of.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8014	The motions for resolutions previously drawn up, namely two motions for resolutions by the honourable Member, have been put to the vote. Schweitzer and comrades, a request from Mr Rosenstingl and Comrades, as well as one of Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades, are properly submitted, duly supported and are under negotiation. Mr Magnifice is speaking now. Guggenberger. - (NL) Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8038	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! When I applied for a post in the public service at the beginning of the 1970s, I was able to choose between them, although I was a quite average student. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I believe you!]] Today, around 150 lawyers in Innsbruck alone are looking for a job to complete the year of the court. The principle: The talented has every chance in life, has long to be relativized. In our office, we recently had the opportunity to hire a long-term unemployed over 50 years of age because of the Federal Government's employment initiative for older workers. As a result of this call for tender, about 50 women and men have applied. All of them were over 50 years old and had been unemployed for a year. And there was one or one more qualified than the other. It's bleeding your heart if you have to make a choice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Each person who is deprived of work will be deprived of individual chances of life. There is no greater waste of human abilities, human talents, human capacities and human resources than unemployment. For me, it is the true political scandal in the Western industrial societies that millions and millions of people are without work. Each of us needs work, not just to earn his living; Work also creates sense of life. – In this context, allow me to quote from a letter from the American bishops who, in my opinion, described this situation impressively: "Often enough of the unemployed feel that they are not worth anything, could not play a productive role in society. Day after day, our society lets them know: We don't need your talent, we don't need your initiative, we don't need you. People who are unemployed often feel that society is blaming them for their situation. Few people survive long periods of unemployment without psychological damage, even if they have enough money to last their livelihood." As far as the American bishops are concerned. I think that anyone who has kept a rest of feeling must put such words under the skin. For us Social Democrats, the question of all questions is as follows: How can we create work for all those who want to have work? . We know that we cannot solve this problem alone, that we are at the limits of national possibilities. Therefore, at the beginning of this year, Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vrannitzky invited Social Democratic Heads of Government and Foreign Minister to the tyrolean Seafield to work together to develop strategies in the fight against unemployment. And the message that was then given was clear: This Europe needs economic and monetary union, but this Europe also needs an employment and a social union. What we need is new technological products. We need creative marketing strategies, we need more money for research and development, we also need the reduction of bureaucratic barriers. With regard to bureaucratic obstacles, I give right to all those who have complained about this problem: I have recently spoken to an entrepreneur who has proved to me on the basis of a document that, after a request for an extension of a gravel pit, she had to wait four years for a notice. – This is bound by legal refusal, you can’t accept it! We must also have the courage – I am quite aware that this does not happen to all, especially in my family, undivided joy – to discuss more openly the question of the flexibility of working time, although this addition is very important, can never mean that workers are required by the back door of a wage ban. I would just like to say what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany said on 1 January. May has said with all firmness and clarity: We do not need jobs that make us cheaper and poorer, but we need jobs in our country that make us better and richer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We need – and this was clearly demonstrated at this Seefeld meeting – measures to strengthen our infrastructure: Our rail network, our road network and our telecommunications network must be modernised and brought to the latest technological development. In this context, we have decided very decisively in the last few weeks in this House by providing the Federal Railways with the opportunity to invest 60 billion Schilling in the expansion of our rail network over the next five years by investing a similar sum in the construction of transit roads and in similar important projects and by modernising our telecommunications network. What we do not need, of course, are the ideas as to how they are praised under the title "Work for Austria". [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] Since the liberals are so pleased to quote newspaper articles, I can recommend the reading of the article Günter Traxler wrote in today's "standard". – He writes: "Should Haider and Co. actually abuse Parliament as a depot for the collection of old hats today? Is it not at all possible to hold back those new early messages for coalition-troubled workers that Stadler seemed "to be holding back on Sunday" – in the "press hour" – or does he just keep silent, because he didn't want to make fun of himself on television?" – Günter Traxler. I don't want to be that strict. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In view of this special meeting and the so far heard by the Freeman, I think only a little literary, namely the title of the comedy by William Shakespeare, "Many noises for nothing". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A lot of noise to make a lot of positive is to be done if you look at the EU Commission's Cohesion Report. Once again, we have every reason, especially our citizens in Vienna, not for joy, but for legitimate pride. According to information from Brussels, Vienna is the fourth richest – the fourth richest! – of 206 EU regions. According to the European Commission's 1996 Cohesion Report, Vienna reached an average of 161 compared to the EU average, which is estimated at 100. In front of Vienna are within these 206 regions of the European Union only Hamburg, the Ile de France – that is the surroundings of Paris – and Darmstadt. Compared with the 1983 assessment, the Federal Capital has increased by 12.2 percentage points in recent years. That is a bit of a pleasure, here social democrats are able to bear political responsibility alone. This is the direction in which we want to orient our policy! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8104	Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8125	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to take a bold look at the comments made by the honourable Member because he did not allow me to make any calls. Mr Dr. Stumvoll has complained that it will take a very long time for operating permits to be granted, and he has said that we need more flexibility. – We've always condemned this, everyone knows it. But Mr stupid now clearly means that we must reinvent the world. Obviously he has not heard any such proposals: This also concerns those states in which the Austrian People's Party would have the opportunity to influence the bureaucracy. An example: I saw on television recently – I think in an economic broadcast – a report about an entrepreneur in Lower Austria who produces catamarans, very large. These must be transported seven kilometers to the Danube, where they are left in the water before they – as I believe – come into the sea. In any case, it is an export product. The entrepreneur had to fight for six or nine months until he got an authorisation to drive the seven kilometers to the Danube. And an official of the state government, who was interviewed for this, said in his chest the conviction: If such an exemption is required, it will take many months. – I am convinced that this was an ÖVP official or at least an official who is subject to someone from the ÖVP who could act on it. One could have made sure that the entrepreneur was not being harassed. Dr. Feurstein! I know you very well among the Members of your group. Perhaps you can boldly align Dr. Stumvoll with the following: It should deal with the areas in which the Austrian People's Party has the opportunity to intervene. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Today, even the Socialists know; everyone knows today that the bureaucracy in Austria is at the expense of entrepreneurs. Whenever we have shown this to the liberals, you have stamped us as querulants. That's what it said: Well, the liberals are criticizing again. In fact, they have done nothing else in recent times. They have always made promises, especially as regards jobs. I can remember exactly: During the EU debate it said: 100 000 jobs are created; this was said by ÖVP-Obmann Busek at the time. Chief of State Pröll from Lower Austria said: 30,000, in Lower Austria alone! Before the elections, Mr Vrannitzky has sent out that 20 000 jobs are created. A year ago, Minister Hums said that unemployment would be reduced to 3%. That is to say, it is almost full employment. In the meantime, we know that all of this was only empty promises. In the meantime, we know that job losses have been done away with incessantly and continuously. There you, Minister Ditz, cannot ask the Austrians to be optimistic. You can't blame us liberals if everyone's just pessimistic. This pessimism is quite simply a result of such a situation. I really wonder what this is about, Minister Hums and everyone else who has described which countries are all ahead of us: Indonesia is ahead of us, the USA is ahead of us, and this economic growth, you have said in this wealth. - It's useless! The Austrians want to have a job in Austria, and the Austrians do not want to hear continuously that it is even worse in America. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I really ask you from SPÖ and ÖVP: What have you done in the past to prevent this state that is now in place with us? Why have you not called for debureaucratisation in the entire operating system permit, in the entire bureaucratic process, over the past few years? Minister! You said today that debureaucratisation in the economy was necessary, that a close cooperation between apprenticeship training and the economy was necessary. We liberals have been demanding this for decades. Since I was in Parliament, we have called for that. [[Federal Minister Dr. Ditz: That's not true!]] Don't say no! I can present to you the results of a working group which I led myself and which finished its work in 1985. The report contains all of this, namely that the economy should cooperate with vocational schools, Mr Minister. They also call for better opening hours for tourism. But, Minister of Economic Affairs, as long as you pursue such a labour market policy, so that the entrepreneurs do not even get workers for the tourism industry, as long as you are asking for better opening hours, you will not be able to do so. There are probably thousands of businesses today looking for staff, but none of them get, because a bad labour market policy has been made. For years unemployment in Austria has only been managed! They boast, Minister of Social Affairs, that 500 000 jobs have been created over the past 11 years. But most of these jobs have been created to recruit foreign workers. And as long as you do not try to reduce foreign employment, you will not be able to reduce the unemployment rate in Austria for so long. Ladies and gentlemen! We currently have 150,000 foreign unemployed, but you want more foreigners in Austria! [[Call the SPÖ: We don't! We're not!]] [[Abg. Marizzi: The Economy!]] You will not succeed in labour market policy if you have a member in your government who would like to introduce another 150 000 foreigners to Austria. I would like to ask you, Minister Ditz – to the Minister Hums I do not address the request, because that is his colleague for the political groups: You have to make it clear once more what it means when he comes through with his desire for family union. That means: There are 150,000 new foreign people who need a job, need an apartment, and much more. And that is a huge burden for Austria, for the economy, for our social state! You should also become aware of this, Mr. Sozialminister. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr Graf: I think the Minister of Social Affairs shares our opinion!]] I am very glad that the issue of family integration has now been accepted by Mrs Hostasch and the Chamber of Labour. Mrs Hostasch shows more realism than the Minister of the Interior, for she said that the children who immigrate also expect a job but do not find it, because not even those children who grow up here in Austria can expect them to have a job in 20 years. - But that doesn't bother the Minister of the Interior. He wants 100 000 children to come to Austria in addition. One of the Socialists or the Austrian People's Party is supposed to tell me how it is supposed to be! We demand that immigration is finally put at zero, i.e. that no new immigration takes place. I would also like to say the following: The foreigners who live in Austria have obviously already met the Austrian social network, because there is a lot of foreign labour in the tourism sector. In Austria, in 1995 26 000 foreign workers in the tourism sector were unemployed, and in April 1996 there were 40 000. The tourism managers, the hoteliers and so on urgently need labour. – That is to say, these workers are getting unemployment support, they are going to suffocate and live better than if they were to work properly – and the tourism industry has no workers at its disposal. Minister Hums! I'll fix it. You may request: Look Once you have done this, you better check where unemployment aid is being wronged! That is urgently necessary! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would also like to say, unfortunately, that the speaking time is very limited: Unfortunately, they have not used the provisions concerning seasonal eggs properly. There is, as has been said, the urgent need to stop the labour force. They believe that you can only do so through immigration. But we have the opportunity to set up seasonal eggs. In Vienna, for example, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation refuses to agree to the seasonal solution. It's obviously the same in the Styria. That is, the quotas are not exhausted, there are no seasonal eggs employed, but the call for immigration comes. And this is really a wrong development! – You do not need to shake your head, Mr. Vergestnich! This is simply wrong and does not correspond to the provisions we wanted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I don't know.]] Yes, the seasonal kidneys only use one for cucumbered, but not in the tourism industry, where they are so urgently needed. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] If you continue to leave so many workers for Austria, what you read in the newspaper will come about. For example, one writes: Machine putz party wanted – Croatia preferred. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's unheard of, please!]] – Well, the foreigners who come in are cheap workers!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8244	The final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8260	I come to the conclusion. – You can get cheap workers, the economy is satisfied, the workers are satisfied, and in Austria those who receive unemployment support here and fall again to the social state.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8290	Mrs Steibl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8311	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My previous speaker has brought a lot of numbers. I would just like to make one number clear: The immigration rate here is 17 000 and not 150 000, of which 10,000 are family mergers and about 7 500 are new workers from abroad. [[Abg. Böhacker: She didn't say that! You didn't listen!]] This also shows how the "F" movement – now on the right – sees "Save jobs in Austria": a special meeting with the theme "Ally for Jobs", written from Germany to be able to perform media-effectively, today a special session with the theme "Work for Austria" in order to be able to perform media-effectively. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Go on what I said!]] Whether this is really the yellow of the egg, I dare doubt! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Partik-Pablé: Go to the Catamaran entrepreneur who is not on the road...!]] I would like to use my speaking time for something more meaningful than to give you answers now. I also believe that it is not effective to buy a liver cheese cream to save the "consumer", but it would probably be more effective to sit here instead if we were to go to the establishments and talk to the employees and ask them whether they are doing well in these establishments or not! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is time to see real problems as a challenge to solve them or to force positive actions and not always to feel sick! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I also believe that there are enough positive examples in Austria, not only abroad, where it is shown how employers deal with employees, with this really good potential. [[Abg. May. Stadler: It’s particularly funny when a pragmatized officer talks about work!]] Firstly, I am not a pragmatized official, but contract staff, and I have worked in the private sector for 18 years, and I am still working in it. And I want to know about you, too, whether You do. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Further call of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] Now you'll be a little round when a woman tells you back! - Wait a minute, my colleague. [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I believe, of course, that in the future we need to consider sharing work, first of all, and that is to say reducing overtime work and pooling working hours, that we work less days, second that we share between generations and third also between the social groups. But I do not want to address what has been said before. We have heard a lot of ideas today – not only today – and I would like to repeat a few points once again to fix them: Alliance for work between the social partners, flexibilisation in exchange for jobs, industry-oriented and business-oriented flexibility of working time. Unfortunately, I have to say to this page that a statement by us has brought many headlines, but we are there, and one has deliberately misunderstood it and brought killerphrases. [[turned to SPÖ]] We need time-account models, we need qualified telework, because that will also be a redistribution. We need annual working time models, and we need, as a result, – if we don't want to hear that so much, but women want to do so, among other things – appropriate opening hours. And we also need as quickly as possible what Mr President-in-Office of the Council has said today, namely the abolition of the ban on night work for women in the existing form. As a result, however, we also need a more open discussion on the professions of the future. We're not talking about that much too much. The future professions – unless they are in the field of communication, unless they are in the field of technical professions – must be forced more than ever. And we also need a practice-oriented education policy, whether it be in the form of educational checks, whether it be in the form of anchoring of certain days, whether it be through the recognition of educational routes which are not yet recognised, because they are not national. I also believe that there are positive actions in our labour market, but that these positive actions should also be sold once. Ladies and gentlemen! Our head is almost all round so that thinking can change direction. Those who can't, are invited to go out to our country to visit businesses that show how the relationship between employers and workers goes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8435	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Trattner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8456	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the impression is being made here that, in fact, the government parties are not guilty of the current disaster, but of the opposition parties. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Call the SPÖ: That's right!]] Here the facts are really twisted. The Minister of Economic Affairs has been praying things here for years – formerly still as a State Secretary in the Ministry of Finance, now as Minister of Economic Affairs –, things like strengthening equity among businesses, simplifying administration, simplifying privatisation and so on. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The government finally demands action from the opposition!]] All these are things that the opposition demands from the government. We ask you to finally deliver those promises that you have been making here for ten years – and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Ditz, Minister of State! You cannot simply say here that the Freeman argues only with keywords, where the liberals have already presented a savings package with 46 points at the 1994 budget debate – as you were still State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Lacina Finance. Some of the points have been severely torn, some points have not been looked at properly, you have been silent, according to the Tyrolean saying: It is not g’lobt g’nua! – In principle, however, it has been found that many of these points are very good and require implementation. I should like to make one point. Not only have you, Minister of Economic Affairs, but also the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy said that black work must be eliminated. This is a value-added potential in the order of 150 billion schilling – this has resulted in an investigation by Kepler University in Linz. It employs some 600 000 Pushers, and these generate an additional income of 63 billion schilling. We included this in our savings package at the time; this proposal from the "Luxembourg model" – which I will then present – was not debated at all and "naturally" rejected. A few weeks later, the chairman of the Austrian People's Party Economics Federation comes from Burgenland and makes the same proposal as the Freedom Party – and now the proposal is in order. [[Abg. May. Stadler: This is typical!]] You always have a certain time-lag. This time-lag often takes three or four years until you then insist that the proposals of the Freedom Party are actually the right proposals. If you had already realized these proposals by the Freedom Party, then it would not have come to this economic situation in Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] For this reason, the Liberals have tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] What is the content of this request? – It is about eliminating the Push at construction, offering the house-keepers a premium in the order of 15 percent of the paid sales tax. This has the advantage of having more opportunities to occupy jobs for companies, and this has the advantage of making sure that they are able to use guarantees for work which have not been properly performed; they do not have these guarantee benefits in the case of the bufferer. In the form of these guarantees, this would be possible, and the house builders would use this model very much. This would result in a tax increase – estimated by Kepler University – in the order of 50 billion schilling. Now coming. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, he said that the liberals are exactly those who destroy everything or make all that is proposed by the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: It's all bad power! Yes, I do!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You've been sitting here in the high house for years now. You may not have missed the fact that most of the laws here are passed unanimously, and you are the one who... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's not true at all!]] Over three-quarters of the laws are passed unanimously here in the House. That's right. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, that's not true! A maximum of 40 percent!]] Mr President, I should like to thank you for your support. You have not eaten the wisdom with the spoon either, and you cannot take it out that you or the ladies and gentlemen are always right from the government bank. You have said so – and you have practiced this during the entire budget debate or during the debate on the Structural Adjustment Act –: All the opposition parties' requests, be they so reasonable and yet so good, must simply be rejected, as this package of measures must not be shaken. It is really not a policy that you simply reject reasonable and good requests from the opposition parties and do not introduce any positive legislation! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This is simply about the fact of the separation between what you have said here, Mr President, and what the Minister of Economic Affairs has said. You said you were a defender of a tax – now he's already gone – gentle treatment of the unabsorbed profit. [[Abg. Dr. Stummfully leaves the meeting room]] These are not the theses of 1987, as you have said here, Minister of Economic Affairs, but that is a bold statement by my colleague. ==References== At that time, he called for the abolition of the excise duty on beverages, a benefit of non-avoidable profits, full tax deductibility of business meals, increased promotion of participation companies, reduction of VAT, flexible opening and working hours, higher depreciation rates in tourism, expansion of export promotion. Please, that's all to sign, but do it too! But don't tell me right from the government bank exactly the opposite of what Mr Colleague stupidly said. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, Mr Maderthaner also speaks of the abolition of the tax on beverages and of the promotion of non-reductive profits. Mr Puttinger, who is himself active in a tourism business, demanded on 7 June. February 1995 also provides a tax advantage in case of unscathed profits. Minister for Economic Affairs! Why Make Don't you? They sit up there, promise tax advantages of capital or fiscal measures for years to promote equity for small and medium-sized enterprises, but you do the exact opposite. You make the impression here pretty slow, as if you didn't care about how the Austrian economy is, the main thing is that you get your power and can continue to be ministers. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: This is most primitive, my colleague.]] Otherwise, you would have had to fulfill the promise you made before the election when you said: If the ÖVP does not become the strongest party, you will no longer be available for membership of the Federal Government, Minister Ditz. – Please, what has become of this promise? Not even the promises you made to your person have you complied with. [[Abg. Tichy-Schreder: These are primitive arguments!]] Budget relief or budget rehabilitation will not only be able to take place on the revenue side, but it will also be a matter of carrying out tax reductions, namely tax reductions, as they also required two university professors at Harvard University. That is why the liberals submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Minister for Economic Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen of the Austrian People's Party! This request contains many formulations, many wishes, as they have come from your side. You therefore have the opportunity today to give your consent to these requests.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8685	The two motions for resolutions just read have been properly tabled, duly supported and are under negotiation. President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e8709	Mr President. High house! Allow me briefly to make some comments on some of the contributions to the debate. Today, in the debate - I think it was Mr Oellinger, but I am not quite sure - the finding that the Austrian vehicle industry and the supplier industry had almost lost their existence. . I would say that this is certainly not the case, although admitting that accession to the EU and the associated changes have cost us market shares in the Japanese market. I'm just asking the opposite question: What would have happened if we had not gone to the EU? – Then we would have lost our supplies to BMW, to Audi, to Mercedes. These could be systematically expanded – and this is still happening – and, as Minister of Economic Affairs, I am also trying to ensure, in the implementation of my party chairman's promise, that the EU is putting pressure on the opening of Japanese markets, so that we can offer the same conditions here. But everyone who knows the Japanese market knows that this is not quite easy, that of course prices and competition decide, and that much has happened in Southeast Asia, which has rightly been said, which has not made it easier to enter this market. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann: Why did he say the untruth?]] He hasn't said the untruth, that's always one of your claims. It has joined the EU and has ensured and enforced EU support in this context. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He said here, he brought it under roof and compartment!]] This has been done by Sir Leon Brittan, and it has been implemented. [[Abg. May. Stadler: He said he brought it under roof and compartment!]] He has this promise under roof and compartment. That's right, he did. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: He has a promise under roof and compartment!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] Mr Prinzhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. So if I had to offend you with the expression "irrationality", then I will withdraw it with regret. This was certainly not in your mind, but rather on the fullness of the proposals, which – to which I will come to speak yet – really do not agree completely. Only with one statement, I believe, should we be careful here, too, namely if, as regards the Austrian capital market – falsely – it is claimed that only India is even worse, otherwise Austria would be pretty much at the end of these statistics. – I would like to make an in-depth analysis of why this is so. We must honestly say that until the 1970s, no one in Austria wanted to finance equity outside – really nobody! – even the companies did not want them. We have then changed the tax framework, we have achieved liberalisation in the area of fixed-rate securities, and we are now building up the stock market. I believe that taxes are not the obstacle at present, but rather our problem is that the Austrians' investment behaviour is more likely to go into fixed-rate securities, because the returns are not there. Mr Principal! Why don't you think about why we don't bring together an interest fund for tourism companies? [[Abg. Madl: Because the framework conditions are not right!]] We must admit this honestly: Because all participating companies are afraid to enter with equity. I'm trying to find a solution. Let's take a look at that. Yes, the framework conditions. [[Abg. Madl: Why is that so? Because the framework conditions do not vote!]] What are the conditions? [[Abg. Madl: You are responsible for this!]] Yeah, I'm responsible for everything, I know. [[Abg. Madl: You're in the government!]] That is the only thing I could do with this debate. I won't deny it. I'll do it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: If that's the only thing you've gotten, that's not much! If that's the only thing, it's unfortunate!]] I also believe that the companies are still shy of going to the stock exchange because they are trying to get through without additional owners. This is also a small part of the structure of the Austrian economy, and we need to do this in order to further improve this equity financing from the outside, because the old financial instruments from the inside are certainly no longer sufficient. [[President Dr. Fischer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the comments of Mr Peter: I didn't command optimism. I don't like that either, and I'd never say to an entrepreneur: Now you have to be optimistic and think in that direction. However, I have talked to many entrepreneurs who have not been pessimistic, and this has made me optimistic despite difficult situations. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And this is already a success? This is a success if they are not pessimistic!]] I say to you that I am optimistic that we can actually exceed the economic researchers' forecasts in a positive way. I honestly say, I don't see it so negative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Madl.]] This is legitimate, and I can say that here and today. As far as the unemployment is concerned, it was very important, I believe, that we have finally removed instruments which, in fact, have made it easy for some entrepreneurs to say goodbye to older workers. I mean the special support law, which in Austria has reduced, as I say, the social border in this area, that earned employees are kept in the establishments, by saying: Okay, I'll take the most expensive one, I can "put it on" cheap now. The state pays the bill, so I do. This has also been done by state-owned supply companies. – That must have been a wrong way, and I therefore believe that it is important to eliminate this instrument. It was intended for emergencies, but it was certainly not meant as a drug to stimulate early retirement. Overall, the implementation of de-bureaucratisation, which I must honestly say, is certainly a little more difficult than it is always presented here, because, of course, at the same time as this demand, many laws are being passed here in the House, which bring additional and new bureaucracy, which must then be reworked. I think that we have to pay much more attention to the costs and benefits involved in the assessment. The patent recipe for job security will not exist, but I really cannot follow a proposal from the Liberal Forum. I'm not sure if you brought him today, I've only been called by the "profile" which I say to guarantee, so to speak, a basic security for everyone – regardless of whether he works or not. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: 20 billion schilling!]] I have said that I cannot imagine this coming from the Liberal Forum, nor have I officially given an opinion on it. I'm telling you quite openly: If we go this way, we will no longer have jobs in the official sector, but definitely in the grey economy, and new working conditions will be created. I believe, on the other hand, that we should go the opposite way and try to take people out of the grey sector by removing the bureaucracy from the grey economy. I also do not share statements in press articles, which were there, in Austria wage levels are falling permanently. These are partly part-time jobs, and we must see that this is sometimes combined with other income possibilities. How could it otherwise be that in the tourism sector – despite not being so poorly paid – it is always difficult to find people. If Mrs Partik-Pablé thinks that we have to bring the labour force first, I must say to her: Many tourism companies contact the Social Minister and say they do not find workers, they want an increase in the foreign rate. That's exactly what you don't want from the Freedom Party. . So something in this statement by Mrs Pablo is contrary and should also be clarified in a debate. To remove the hotel's loyalty hand. So I think that the concentration of promotions makes sense, and if the hotel loyalty has worked well, it will also be able to work in the consultation without lending. Overall, we should try to deal with this business with fewer people and at the same time go into new actions such as equity assurance. I have had the experience that all these funding institutions will eventually get a total life of their own. I also do not know whether the permanent foreign financing that is already being carried out there is really good, plus the very strong enlargement. You yourself say that this is not always the best, and you are probably right with that. It is likely that changes and a more frequent rethinking of funding are useful here. Mr Böhacker's argument was that it was double-handed not to include motions for resolutions, even though it was called for itself. [[Abg. Böhacker: This is populist!]] What is it? [[Abg. Böhacker: Populist!]] No, populism is not, but populism is the demands you present here. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Pure populism!]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: But really pure!]] I've been looking at this right now. Mr Stadler, look... [[Abg. May. Stadler: We have written all this off from the Federal Chamber of Commerce!]] I don't know if you're writing a copy of the Federal Chamber of Commerce or not. [[Abg. May. Stadler: We support the Federal Chamber of Commerce!]] The Federal Chamber of Commerce can claim to the government, but you want to be an alternative, you have to consider what claim you can put into practice. And I say quite honestly to you, your last motion for a resolution... [[Abg. May. Stadler: The government should take over this!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that it is really impossible to implement good conscience. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The Minister says what the Chamber demands is a fool!]] One cannot put it into practice, because the lapidare requirement: "Discharge of the cost factor labour through a non-profit transformation of the energy tax, so that the additional wage costs are reduced and VAT reduced by 2 percentage points and the drink tax is reduced," means around 25 billion schilling. Please, submit a concept! You're a tax advisor. [[Abg. Rosenstingl: That's it! There is a concept of the liberals!]] Skill Don't you formulate this so you can check what you really want? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They permanently award orders to the government. I'm not a Minister of Finance, but I'm telling you: This order can, yes, not be fulfilled. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's what your German chambermen are claping with! That's incredible!]] Do you know what the fuel price would look like if we did? And who regrets too high petrol prices? So you also have to think about this when you make demands and not just go out here and demand large across the meadow. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Gentlemen from practice! One should also consider... [[Abg. Mentil: To the difference from you!]] I'm also from practice. My parents also had a business, and I met many companies. But I'll tell you one thing: It is a big mistake to close from a company to the whole. The situation is very different, depending on the industry, and it is important that you look at what is discussed with all before They set an economic policy line. – I did that and I will continue to do so. You can't stop me! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But increasing the energy tax and reducing VAT by 2 percentage points, I really think it is nonsense. I have to say that quite clearly once. This does not make sense, there is no price effect, but this leads to the fact that very important industrial enterprises are no longer competitive. To demand that the drinking tax be abolished without knowing how to distribute the energy tax then, not to see that then there is no more own tax- collection autonomy of the municipalities – which is not irrelevant for federalism; even to that, I believe, the Freedom Party is obliged – not to carry it out at all, not to present at all a concept and then to say: Please, agree, so that's what I'm telling you honestly: We make our own concepts and will then decide when the time is ripe to decide them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the taxation of holdings: So the legal form of neutrality is not an objective of taxation for me, because everyone has the chance to go to a GesmbH, to a capital company, to a single company, to a person company. [[Abg. Böhacker: Should the young entrepreneurs go to an AG? What do you want?]] Why do you have to shave everything over a comb? Choices are useful, so your operating tax system – I repeat that – is a system that is not implemented in any country in the world, and we will not realize it in Austria either. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9099	The next speaker is Mr Seidinger. He's got the floor. Speaking time 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9120	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! "Work for Austria", as the movement of the "F" exaggerates us again today, is populism in pure culture. Populism in pure culture therefore because it repeatedly demands this work for Austria and so far has provided very few or almost no examples that have actually brought work to Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You operate against a serious background. If today the "Kurier" titles in a broadcast "The fear of work", that is not unfounded, and not unfounded because the Linz opinion research institute Market has found that 70 percent of Austrians consider the fight against unemployment to be the government's most important task. And we must not forget that the EU is heading to 20 million unemployed. If I, as a Social Democratic, are here at the speaker's desk, I do not wish to fail to repeat that full employment is an old and new goal of our movement, that only this is the basis for the welfare state. The social state must include all citizens from youth to pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me comment on a few points. Shortfalls in working time have not yet brought the desired success. Shorter working time brought increased productivity through increased automation. That is, when we look at ourselves in practice: Full order books of industry, but empty halls, not people. Maybe you should pick up the old Dallinger idea once again to ask: What about the value-added tax that was damned and deflated as a "machine tax"? It is also about a redistribution of working time. So it is possible to share overtime. – Someone has now set up the bill: If you put in the Styria about 1 million overtimes a week at a 38-hour week, that would be – milkmaid bill! – 26 315 new jobs, compared with 40 000 jobseekers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: A very advanced concept!]] Many say now: better part-time than no work. I am not opposed to reducing overtime now and dividing it to others; this can be a sensible matter, only: [[Abg. Mentil: Can!]] The question is whether this is done out of a collegial, friendly intention, or whether we need regulations, laws, pressure and measures to do so. In the keyword "Solidarity": They will certainly all know the example of VW plants, where workers have said that they do not pay and income if terminations can be avoided. – Only: This temporary ban on income does not mean a permanent solution. Permanent solutions are more complicated than they may appear at the first moment. Next Tag: Flexibility. Yeah, but not at all. Flexible working hours must be negotiated between employers and employees. Workers' protection provisions are to be improved; together with the economy, a creative solution is to be sought. But let's look at this in detail, we're following a variety of media reports, for example, about trade: It is promised that you can go shopping up to half past eight or half nine. On the other hand, I ask: Are those who have to stand behind the puddle until half past eight or half nine to sell? When will they go shopping? – In other words, you will still have to look for solutions. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They can shop in the morning! They're not working on it!]] You can take out a professional group and say: He can design his work, but there are many professional groups in which there is no possibility of design. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Mr President, I should like to thank I also have a limited speaking time and I cannot now get into discussions with you. Now comes from the model country of capitalism, the USA, the Good News: 210 000 jobs created per month. A work miracle: flexible contracts, low wages and the like. But if you look behind the scenes, you can see that 75 percent of all US employees work in the service sector. In the US, the unemployment rate is only 5.5 percent – twice as high in Europe – but: 10 million Americans work at a minimum wage, and the minimum wage is 4.25 dollars per hour. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Gross or net?]] It is in times of high economy in this part-time industry, in an industry in which there are models of temporary work, so that 60 percent of all American households have to live with the 1973 standard. This is the pattern country of capitalism! They all know these keywords and know in Europe as well: Capitalism no longer knows any limits; it has become homeless and it can occur anywhere in the world. The following exchange rates were and are available in the USA: The fire of workers brings rising shares, and many of them live on. But a reduction in wages also worsens the standard of living, the purchasing power is reduced and the economy is getting worse. Measures in Austria – today mentioned several times here at the speaker's desk –: Public investment strengthens employment initiatives. 90 billion schilling of infrastructure expenditure for railway, road construction, Semmering tunnel, Koralm tunnel and so on! You shouldn't ignore that! Environmental measures can create jobs! Work instead of social assistance! Keywords: active labour market policy. Again and again it is lamented that the funds for labour market promotion have fallen. – There are 6.6 billion schilling available for this this year, which is 16 percent more than before. Let me conclude. What is presented today by the "F" with this programme "Work for Austria", Othmar Karas of the ÖVP has referred to as non-stop, unrealistic and as a great burden to the Austrian economic location. I only point out the "F" to the following contradiction: Reducing taxes but financing the welfare state through taxes. This is insidious, just a square of the circle! Today your leader has said out here that you only have to abolish the local tax, so that the additional wage costs would be 3 percent less. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Leave this name out of the game!]] I refer to the communities that have to live from the municipal tax. And the municipalities, please, it is those who in Austria have a share of 60 percent of the total investment volume. The address of the "F"! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9239	Mr Dr. Khol has made a statement on an actual correction. Please comply with the relevant provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9263	I am correcting the statements made by Mr Trattner, according to which a large number of laws would be passed unanimously. In the XIX. The legislative period was decided by 34 percent of 122 laws, 28 percent in 1993 and 27 percent in 1992. Thus, the claim that a large number of laws would be passed unanimously is wrong.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9301	Mrs Petrovic. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the The speaking time is known.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9322	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to pay tribute to my speech to a very special aspect of unemployment in Austria. It was a lot of talk about the creation of new jobs, of a technology offensive. – However, we are missing from the Greens a little bit of faith that you really mean it. In our view, there is also a lack of a convincing concept – you have so far remained guilty – because with some vague investment incentives you can no longer create highly qualified jobs, since there is a need for a very targeted technology offensive in specific sectors. But such an offensive only makes sense and can only lead to success if jobs are not lost in other areas. And I think that this problem is far too little attention. We know that in industry we have to constantly expect a fall in the number of employees. In some cases, however, we do not have to complain about this development, because it also rationalises jobs which are really unreasonable for people, because they are harmful to health which are caused by extreme stress. I therefore believe that rationalization also has positive sides if it is only possible to achieve a fairer distribution of the fruits of the work and also of the work itself. In other words, we need to redistribute work and work income more effectively. We must not find ourselves with a development towards two-thirds society, but must strive to divide the existing work into more people – and, of course, to make the proceeds of this work accessible to more people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, however, I find a very special problem to my heart: Austria is at the threshold for entry into a new, very dangerous technology, namely genetic engineering, in so far as it concerns releases. And it is not at all considered that there has been no study at all to see how many jobs it will cost. I am now speaking to the representatives of the Austrian People's Party, in particular. I know that the problems, concerns and concerns of the Austrian peasantry remain at your heart. I do not think it is a coincidence that Minister Molterer and Bartenstein have spoken out against such genetic release experiments; they know what that means. There are more than 20 000 organic farms in Austria. These are very labour-intensive companies that deliver products of the highest quality for very demanding markets. I mean, this is the success recipe for the Austrian agriculture of tomorrow. We have no chance of competing with huge mass producers, for example in the Netherlands or in other countries, with producers of animal food produced almost on the tape. There's no chance in Austria. Nor should we try to compete in this respect, in a competition that we can only lose. We need to see where our chances of success lie: in a product of the highest quality, truly declared for consumers, a product that meets all ecological standards, in a product that must be free of any genetic influence. – For organic farmers, genetic engineering is somewhat diametrically opposed, something that counters their efforts. We Greens do not have an absolute negative position on genetic engineering as a whole. I think there are useful applications in this area of medicine. But there too one must be very, very careful. There, too, all safety requirements must be respected, and the law must certainly be improved. However, I believe that there are legitimate forms of application in the medical sector. Only: In the field of agriculture, agricultural products, genetic engineering is a mistake, and we should not go there! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There genetic engineering is socially unadapted. In this way, the Austrian farmers are hit in a quantity competition with huge agricultural factories. They can't stand it! It is really a mistake of research: The ecological risks are incalculable, the social consequences are devastating, because it would mean the result for other farmers. And: We are thus wallowing ourselves to the already recognizable path of success for Austrian agriculture. That's why I'm really trying and asking you: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We do not demand a general ban – we see it as a kind of compromise offer to this house – but we demand a moratorium of five years, for good reason. We know that the releases that have happened so far have led to quite different results from what was originally thought. All studies on pollen flight, the fertility of these plants, have so far been wrong. The scientists, as in those days, were wrong with nuclear technology. I think we should take this five-year period of thought. – I personally am convinced that after that these release experiments will no longer be wanted. Now, however, that we are entering this technology and thus a promising way to block an ecological path of Austrian agriculture as a whole, that would really be the wrong thing to do now. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental agriculture is labour-intensive. It delivers high-quality, maybe also some expensive products. However, I believe that this price should be paid for the fair performance of Austrian farmers. And I mean, that's a good money. Just, as I said, If we make political decisions that are opposed to this, then again 10,000 or 20 000 farmers will be introduced to the labour market, then they will probably try to find a job in industry, in industry, which no one can start today, and that, although it would be relatively easy to obtain a high-quality job in agriculture. In terms of job security, I am looking for They are therefore again: Join our request! Voices To this moratorium of five years for agricultural release experiments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9437	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petrovic on moratorium on release applications is sufficiently supported and stands for discussion and negotiation. Mr Feurstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9461	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Petrovic, I do not know Their commitment to the unemployed and also to genetic engineering. They have rightly pointed out that the two ministers, Bartenstein and Molterer, have expressed themselves very clearly and clearly on this question. I'm allowed You recall that, in the main committee, too, when this question was discussed in the EU Council of Ministers, we have made a very clear and clear statement on this. I rely on these opinions and on this commitment of our two ministers more than on a motion for a resolution which would mean a unification. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it quite clear here: We cannot solve this issue alone in Austria, but we have joined the EU in order to deal together with the problems of genetic engineering, genetic engineering, in a way that the solutions are human- and animal-friendly. I would like to stress this explicitly. Again: I recognize her commitment, but I do not think that the path that in some way means an alibi action is right. – And I also recognise your commitment to the unemployed, but you should note that not only today, but already the formation of this new federal government has begun a clear new approach to labour market policy. I quote this key point from Mr Klima's budget speech, in which he said: "A deficit is not an efficient tool to create employment." This is a reorientation of employment policy, labour market policy in our country, ladies and gentlemen. I also quote the key point from today's speech by Minister for Economic Affairs Ditz, when he said: "The Federal Government has not put its concept of employment policy on a permanent debt policy or a wage ban." Dr. Ditz then included alternatives to a reasonable employment policy that points to the future. I am sorry that this issue of reconception, a forward-looking employment policy, has not been taken up by the liberals in particular. It would be an opportunity for you – Dr. stupidly said it – to talk about this new concept at least. For, ladies and gentlemen, this is a departure from the old Keynsian employment policy. We should actually have voted in favour, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What are the key principles of this new policy? – They have been led by the ÖVP delegates and, in part, by the SPÖ delegates, in particular by Minister Hums. In particular, Minister Hums pointed to the importance and importance of the construction industry in connection with housing and the impulses of employment, of the labour market. Other Members have highlighted the flexibility of working time. I consider this to be very important. And I also say to the SPÖ Members: I think it is right to force the flexibility of working time – between employees and employers individually, i.e. without collective contractual ties. I believe that we should have this confidence in the economy, in the workers and employers, that they are themselves able to intervene in certain areas. I would like to say quite clearly that we are not of the opinion of the liberals who have said that the taxation of overtime jobs could be created. On the contrary: If there is an instrument that can be redistributed, this certainly only works through a reasonable design of overtime taxation, ladies and gentlemen! This is the only area in which we can make a reasonable start. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Mag. Stadler, because you're here now, I would like to tell you the following: Especially through the accession to the EU, jobs were not only secured but also created. I call you two businesses. I call you Wolford and Otten, Wolford in Bregenz and Hard and Otten in Hohenems. [[Abg. May. Stadler: They would still be competitive!]] These two plants have been in operation since 1. In January 1995, 600 new jobs were created, ladies and gentlemen, because the market was increased by our accession to the EU for these two companies. You should know that best, Mr Mag. Stadler, for Mr Otten has told you several times what would have threatened if there had been no EU accession. If we move these 600 to 700 jobs across Austria, I must say that we come to around 20 000 jobs created. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A record unemployment in Vorarlberg! Since the Second World War, a record unemployment – despite the EU!]] Unemployment in Vorarlberg has now increased because there are difficulties in construction and tourism. We have to deal with these difficulties. We need to make changes, but we do not achieve this if we are simply constantly chatting about the EU, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I consider the reorientation of labour market policy by labour market service to be a very essential thing in Austria. There have certainly been some who have taken part in the labour market service because this labour market policy is actively trying to promote employment. They themselves cannot create jobs, of course, that is right, no one working in the administration can directly create jobs. But they can create the conditions for no longer being managed, but for active labour market policies to be pursued. I am opposed, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that today's labour market service is still being blamed, as Mr Haider has done, that they will only manage unemployment. On the contrary: They create jobs, they actively make labour market policies. I am very happy about this - Minister Hums has already pointed out - that this year, in 1996, active labour market policies were made available a third more in financial resources than in 1995. These funds have been increased from 5 billion to 6.5 billion schilling. These are funds for an active labour market policy that can now be used to create the conditions for improving the situation of the economy. We have also been very effective in reducing the additional wage costs – although only in a small area. It is always forgotten to say that when older workers are reintroduced, additional labour costs have been reduced by 3 percentage points. In a farm where older workers are additionally employed, 3 percentage points will be reduced in additional wage costs, because no unemployment insurance contribution will have to be paid for these persons. This is a real labour market policy measure to improve the situation of older workers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have problems – admittedly – but we try to solve these problems, to show alternatives. The right path to a reasonable labour market policy has today been identified by the two ministers Ditz and Hums.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9544	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9565	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to join with Mr Feurstein's praise for the labour market service. I am convinced that the importance of this institution will continue to grow in the future. Because in the case of all that is happening in the industrial and industrial sphere due to rapid development, we will probably have to deal with a number of people in the future who are unable to keep up with the pace that is on the agenda in the production company. That is to say, there will be a number of people who are being dragged out of the production process, so to speak. And it will be very crucial how creatively the labour market service can offer these people alternative employment opportunities. – That is why it is absolutely not a defensive orientation, and it is really not that only unemployment would be managed, but that the Austrian population in the most crucial sectors will be offered future opportunities. However, I cannot welcome you, Mr Feurstein, if you believe that the budget now decided would have been a departure from Keynesianism. Apart from the fact that, when reading international economic newspapers, this has not become so modern at all, the core of Keynesian theory is that it is precisely from the experience of the World Economic Crisis in 1929 that in certain situations demand is stimulated by the state, but that, as soon as the situation has improved, one must be able to take back the debt of the public budget, if the objective that is a short-term one is fulfilled. This is similar in Austria today. You know very well that in 1993 we had to make substantial budget increases as a result of a recession, but we are now in a phase in which we are forced to reduce these budget increases to a certain extent. Another point, and actually the core of what interests me today: As a number of social and economic policy issues have already been discussed, the context should be as follows: Employment policy and the European Union. And I think that this connection has still not been lighted too much today. What is the problem of rising unemployment rates in the European context? – The core problem is that there has been an increase in the labour force potential, and this has not been achieved in terms of growth trends in Europe. The question is: Why has growth trends not been able to cope with this trend in recent years? Moreover, there is no empirical finding that would confirm that the employment intensity of growth had decreased and that there was such a thing as jobless growth. – Employment intensity has remained more or less the same. The problems of the absence of a growth trend are in another area. As you know, all Western European countries were relatively indebted to their public budgets, and this has, among other things, led to high real interest rates. This also meant that investment in the business sector was far less lucrative, there was a strong shift towards the financial sector, and that the investment climate was also disturbed by monetary instability in Europe in recent years. It is therefore not only for Austria, but for Europe as a whole the question: How can we achieve sustainable economic growth based on the development of mass purchasing power? And here, I mean, there are some positive developments right now. There have been the lowest real interest rates since 1949, especially in Germany, which will lead to a stronger recovery of investment. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Are you Keynesian?]] It is not lumping, but it is part of it, Mr Lukesch! [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: Do you know the theory of liquidity traps?]] This theory is known to me, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. Dr. Lukesch: This is a historic moment that threatens to enter Austria if we are not very careful on the cost side!]] I am still speaking on the cost side, Mr Lukesch, but you will agree with me that the interest rates that have now fallen are a major change, a change towards a certain investment climate. You will also agree with me that the pursuit of a European currency unit and the objective of a more stable exchange rate will create a second essential condition for achieving a favourable investment climate. And you will probably also agree with me that development in Eastern Europe... [[Abg. Ing. Reichhold: Talk about today!]] Now I am dealing with an objection from my colleague, Lukesch. - One by one! . Especially for colleagues on the right side, as has been said today by our Minister of State Hums of the more often. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: This special meeting becomes an adult education!]] I come to another point: Eastern Europe. You will certainly agree with me when I say that the integration of the Eastern European countries into the European Union will lead to a strengthening of effective demand in Eastern Europe, especially in the light of the investment activity in these countries. A great hope for the development of these markets in Central and Eastern Europe is well justified. They will probably not be able to conclude what has been set out, among other things, as a priority in the government programme. Within the European Union, economic policy orientation is currently on a footing, so to speak, that of economic and monetary union, while the European Union has not yet reached an agreement on what is to be done in the employment and investment sectors. As an example, I call for the financing of the trans-European networks, which continue to hang in the air. I would add the programme proposed by Delors to support small and medium-sized enterprises. It is necessary for the European Union to act on economic policy. In the future, if there is a single European currency, if there is an independent European central bank, it must have an economic counterweight at national level, and that is clearly the Federal Government in Austria: with the involvement of the economic and social partners. At European level, we do not yet have such a construction. I cannot imagine, for example, that the ECOFIN Council, the Council of Finance Ministers of the European Union, would be able to fulfil this function. Delors has proposed many years ago that there should be an economic government facing this European central bank, because it is a matter of balancing the economic objectives in Europe – and not just monetary stability. I believe that one of the most crucial tasks – and this was also the reason why Austria became a member of the European Union – must also be the perception of macroeconomic change at the level of the European Union in terms of employment policy, because we must recover losses of action which we had to take note of at national level due to global developments at European level. That'll be our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9658	Mrs Edeltraud Gatterer has now come to speak. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9682	Mr President. Minister! High house! According to Mr Gusenbauer, I could actually say as an Austrian: I don't care, I just want one job. The situation on the labour market is tense, and I think everyone here in the house knows this, and they are also politicians who look across borders. The Minister for Economic Affairs has said that we can nevertheless say that we are still in a very good situation compared with other Western European countries. However, for all of us, the high level of unemployment is a task, a task for policy. I believe that the situation is so good so far, I say, is also a result of the fact that the Federal Government has taken correct action in recent years, otherwise the unemployment rate would probably be as high as in other countries; that is what we have to say. And that has nothing to do with seeing it through a pink glasses, but that is the reality! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has repeatedly presented it as if accession to the EU was due to the unfortunate situation we are currently facing. Look For example, you are looking at the rising unemployment rate in Switzerland! What's there? – Switzerland has not joined the EU, not even the European Economic Area, but there is an almost explosively rising unemployment rate there. You have to say that, fairly, here too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has been and will be tried by both the EU and all neighbouring countries to identify new ways of looking for new solutions to put in place new measures. But, I think, one must also be so honest and say that so far there is no patent recipe for how to solve this problem that has appeared practically overnight. I know patent recipes only from people who are in groups where we do not want to be there, namely with sects. They always say: I am in possession of the absolute truth, only what I say is right – and everything else is not acceptable. In any case, we have the political obligation to become active. And I think that saving is a first step. [[Abg. May. Stadler: 21 percent "Sect"!]] I'll bring you a newspaper section the next time you're... [[Abg. May. Stadler: 21 percent "Sect" in Austria! It's very big!]] Perhaps you will also admit to the others that they are making positive proposals, such as those of the government. [[Abg. May. Stadler: But don't compare with a sect! 21 percent sect!]] No, no, I'm not saying you're a sect, I'd never do that. If you understood that, I'll make it clear right away. But it is true that I know groups that claim to be in possession of absolute truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Save, the Structural Adjustment Act is certainly not self-evident, but the prerequisite for securing the economic location of Austria, as well as securing or creating jobs. Notable economists say that we are at a turning point that our society has more or less undergone a change since the Industrial Revolution. This was also a painful step at the time. However, it must also be said that more employment, more professions have been created and that our current prosperity, the broad prosperity of the population, is not least due to this industrial revolution. – Now people are again at a turn, towards an industrial or service society. Nevertheless, I would like to refer to the comments made by Mrs Schaffenrath – there are, of course, different groups, not least for women who are often active in sectors which are particularly vulnerable to unemployment, the danger of increasing unemployment. We see this with young women. We also note more and more that female apprentices, for example, find highly qualified apprenticeships in Carinthia. I think that the Federal Chamber's initiative in this regard is very welcome. Of 400 possible apprenticeships, 83 percent of girls still choose only 25 percent of the professions. I think that we need to become an initiative. However, I also believe that we must come to a re-evaluation of the work at all. It is true that we also re-evaluate the areas in the social sector that we must try to achieve social security in these areas. We need to find new solutions and go new ways. I believe that the flexible working time already carried out by Mr Steibl is a common path, as is, for example, the increased part-time jobs mentioned by Mr Höchtl. We need more initiatives and more opportunities in this area. But we must also tell all the professionals that there must be lifelong learning if you want to have a qualified profession. All labour market management data show that low skills, poor training and unemployment are a trap and, so to speak, a feeding ground for long-term unemployment. We need to create new jobs. The area of teleworking was addressed by many previous speakers. Mr Schwarzenberger also pointed out the importance of rural areas. So there are many new possibilities from the technical point of view. I very much believe that ministries are called upon to take initial steps in this regard, because it is not always possible to call for initiatives by private entrepreneurs. There are certainly also possibilities to extract and force telework in these areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from ÖVP do not want wage dumping, but fair income for the self-employed! There are opportunities in many areas, and we are all invited to become active. In any case, I am not aware of the fact that only one job would have been created through debt allocations.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9777	Mr Riepl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9799	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In his statement this morning, Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Hums, pointed out that an important element in working life is the social partners; in particular, he mentioned the "social partnership with an eye". As one of those who has been involved in collective treaty negotiations for several years, I know that the social partners, particularly in connection with the economy and with the design of wage and working conditions, have passed on a number of things in our country in the sense of the economy, but also in the sense of the workers; the results of collective treaty negotiations show year after year. There are usually no winners and no losers. One agrees on a conclusion that both sides can carry, and we have done so well so far. Mr Höchtl, in his contribution to the debate, has meant that we can only find solutions with one another – I think I quote you correctly – and I do not want to contradict that. On the contrary: I welcome it. I think it is the same, and so it should remain in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! But not everyone sees it that way, and not everyone in this house sees it that way. I am now referring to press releases in which Mr Deputies have been silently quoted in the last few weeks and days and where attitudes and opinions are expressed, which do not just push one another together, but rather force each other to do so. For example, in the "Press" there was silently quoted: Who is working in Austria today? – There are five weeks of vacation, each one goes to health care every year; there are two and a half weeks of illness; the work performance is reduced and much more. . Such statements are certainly not useful for the solution to the problem in connection with the cooperation that Mr Höchtl has quoted and supported by me. ==References====External links== This year is quoted as follows: The first three days of sick leave are to be deducted as holidays. This is a further report which is certainly not useful in relation to the difficult problems to be solved. But in the "New Age" Elisabeth Strasser gave the right answer in a gloss, and I quote from that gloss of 3. May 1996: "Since being silent in the Chamber of Commerce, he has invented proposals (of course) for the benefit of the economy. But he doesn't seem to think much about their social tolerance and therefore their feasibility." I do not want to discuss this at all, but I think it has been properly analysed. Wage policy, employment policy and employment policy in each enterprise are issues that are best discussed, discussed and resolved in the companies or at the negotiating table of the respective sector, i.e. collective treaty negotiations. I think we have done well in the past when we discussed these questions where they belonged, and not in the media. I also believe that this would be a better condition for discussing the problems where they belong and not trying to profile themselves in the media. But unfortunately, Mr Deputies is stupid – I must say that in – under quotation marks – "good" society. Franz Ceska from the Industrial Union calls for wages below today's collective contract wages, which should be allowed. A Director-General of a large electric group believes that any increase in wages means job destruction. Within five years, a reduction in wage costs of 20 percent – real – is necessary. – All these are examples and statements of the last days, which will certainly make it very difficult to maintain the previously relevant climate in the debate on these wage and working conditions. For example, at the same time in a press release in the same newspaper, the head of this group – which is the ABB Group – announces that net profit in the first quarter of 1996 could be increased by 19 percent, i.e. to 2.4 billion schilling. – So on the one hand, a Director-General, who is a spokesman for an important economic area in our Republic, says: Get down with the wages by 20 percent!, and on the other hand his group leader, who proudly reports that the profit has increased by 19 percent in a quarter. – These are things that one can hardly understand and from which one must conclude that it is not about market shares, not about sales, but simply about profit maximization. A few minutes ago, Mr Trattner of the Liberals, said that it was also important to turn to the question of illegal work, the shadow economy, the black workers. This reminds me of a situation which has caused discussions in the Party, from the Trattner Member, some time ago. This party – at least part of it – had practical experience with black workers and with the employment of workers in illegality: For this reason, a Vienna countryman in this party even had to relinquish his mandate because he employed black workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] – That is why I understand, of course, that this party is very well aware of this; it has tried it itself, as it is. So, among the liberals, we also have to do with representatives who have even tried this as mandates, and I think it is worth noting here once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention three examples from Vienna, which should be mentioned as positive examples in this debate. Since three weeks there have been increased efforts by the labour market service of the city of Vienna, the Vienna economy, as well as the representation of workers in terms of the teaching situation, and by joint efforts have succeeded in finding 100 additional apprenticeships and offering these apprentices in three weeks. That means: More than 100 jobs for young people in our federal capital. A second example, which I would like to mention, is the vocational training centre of the BFI in Vienna. It will be in a few days of 100. Professional workers who were trained there are celebrated. It can therefore be seen that with the support of labour market service resources, there are also opportunities in terms of qualifications. Third: For nine months there has been the Vienna Workers' Fund. 600 people could be taken care of there, and it can also be seen that this Vienna employee promotion fund, which, with the support of the economy, the interest groups, the city of Vienna and the labour market service, was the right instrument at the right time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9886	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9907	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petrovic and clarify the position of the Liberal Forum. This is a motion for a resolution which aims to establish a moratorium on requests for release from genetically modified organisms for the duration of five years. The Liberals will not agree to this motion for a resolution – although we are very critical of the releases – because this argumentation of a moratorium for five years without any further reasons makes it too easy for the advocates of such requests for release to defame such an application as an anti-progression, as simply not adequate. We are currently preparing a proposal which will be tabled here as an independent motion for a resolution and which aims to ensure that, as long as those rules of liability which have been adopted unanimously in the Committee on Releases' Report here in the House are not implemented, so long as release applications in Austria are not to be approved. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, will be tabled today. In order to ensure that this problem is not simply eliminated from the table with any death penalty arguments, we should refer to those principles which have been unanimously decided here in the House on liability for such discharges. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9943	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e9964	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In May of this year, the "Kammernachrichten Oberösterreich" read the following: To create work by reducing labour costs. – This article refers to a study by Professor Schneider of the University of Linz, in which it would be said that the cost of wages would be reduced by about 48 500 jobs per year in Austria until 2006. I believe that the strategy for reducing labour costs from an operational point of view may be all but negative, because the benefits exist only for so long until the competitors go after it. However, this short-term advantage is bought by the fact that working conditions and the standard of living of people deteriorate, the purchasing power declines, and sales opportunities decline. We cannot compete with the low-cost countries, which sometimes pay a tenth of our wages, about labour costs, otherwise we also have their standard of living. Instead of the defensive concept, the labour cost race, ladies and gentlemen, we need an offensive competition of know-how, quality and innovation. According to the credit protection association – which is also known – 86 percent of the insolvencys are homemade, i.e. indebted to the affected entrepreneur himself. Only about 10 percent of the loss sources are in the non-commercial sector. In an analysis of the electrical and electronic industries, company consulting firm Mc Kinsey showed that the key competitive weaknesses of European industry companies are not customer orientation, cumbersome processes, departmental segoism and employee management errors. Six of the currently leading business consultancy companies are facing major management deficits. Mc Kinsey sees the savings in material, energy, transport costs and efficient work organisation as much higher than labour costs. Similar calculations are also made from the German electronics industry. The key strategies for successful companies are therefore staff qualifications, much more attention being paid to marketing, innovation, production time and Committee reduction, and reduced and optimised product development by involving all stakeholders – from customer to supplier and all affected employees. Successful companies are consciously targeting their personnel policies to promote the motivation and skills of employees. I refer to an article in the "Economiesblatt" of 27. January of this year, where Werner Vontobel writes: "Streicheln rather than Streicheln". – In this article, he refers to a study result: The highest profits are achieved by companies that guarantee safe jobs and wages. The true recipe for success means job security, high wages and cooperation instead of confrontation. Vontobel also cites here a book by Professor Pfeffer of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, who took a close look at five US companies in a study. Professor Pfeffer also writes: "The five companies have neither a dominant competitive position nor a unique technology, nor could they be described as mass producers. Rather, it turns out that the decisive success factor was apparently in dealing with staff in a solemn manner. For example, the workforce of all five successful companies were trade unionally organized, all involved in the profits of the companies or the productivity progress of their departments." – Ladies and gentlemen! So there are also strategies that would be implemented in the future. A long-term study of German companies at the University of Hanover shows: Successful companies pay their employees on average higher wages than other companies in the comparison group. Now some rates on the additional wage costs, which have already been very strained today. I do not want to discuss the height anymore; that is known. The service providers have to pay social taxes and taxes of the wage sum of about 32 percent; if the holidays, sicknesses, holidays are included, you reach 66 percent. Only if holiday and Christmas money were counted as additional wage costs – which is wrong – would this figure increase to 96 percent. However, ladies and gentlemen – and this should be said again here – are not the additional labour costs, but the total labour costs related to productivity, namely unit labour costs, and in this respect Austria has very good values. Between 1980 and 1990, Austria's position on unit labour costs improved by 0.7 percent each year vis-à-vis its trading partners. Only in recent years has it increased slightly more than in comparable countries. In the last 15 years, productivity in Austria has increased by far more than our trading partners. The "Export World Champion" Germany also has 25 percent higher labour costs than Austria and has already fallen behind Austria in terms of productivity. That is, Germany has higher unit labour costs than Austria. I cannot address everything in detail, but one thing I would like to stress in this connection: Staff costs represent an increasingly low share of total costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Since today there is so much talk about additional wage costs: Consider how high the total staff costs are: They are only more than 15 to 35 percent, including additional wage costs; the trend is falling. They are always talking about the cost of wages, and we all know that in industry - it may already be that in some areas of services the share of labour costs is higher - in large areas and also in the trade of the share of labour costs is falling to 15 to 35 percent. In the so export-oriented saw industry, it was only 12.9 percent, in the non-ferrous metal industry, in other words in the multi-metallic areas and thus only more than 14 percent. Some colleagues and I were at an operating visit to BMW in Steyr yesterday. Do you know how high the wage cost is? – 9 percent! But here you are always talking about reducing the additional wage costs. – In reality, these are a very small part. That is why you should stick to the truth! Ladies and gentlemen! Being competitive – this is ultimately the result of a large number of complex factors, and these are not equivalent to labour costs. In a joint work, six of the currently leading business consultants have assessed the most important 16 location factors for them. The key factors include: skilled workers, high education, technical knowledge, high productivity, efficient management and a well-developed transport and telecommunications infrastructure. Austria's strengths lie in the good qualifications and motivation of employees, in social peace and in high quality of life and security! Finally, let me quote the "Economic Sheet" in which Werner Vontobel writes: "The economy is not as it is: It's the way you think it is. If everyone is convinced that the exchange rates are rising, they will rise. If everyone believes that the economy is a jungle in which only the strong and the careless can survive, then the economy is a jungle." The jungle theorists are still the loudest. Let us make sure that it will be different!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10049	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10092	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the two ministers have been quoted by this speaker panel as "responsive court councils". Mr Ditz has presented seven concrete and Mr. Social Minister Hums with five specific points so that we can react quickly and find solutions for the economy before the summer. This is in order to show determination – to use their words – and to set better political frameworks. We will take care of this in Austria! Then there were the statements by Mr Ditz and Mr Sozialminister Hums. They were degenerated by the "F": no higher costs or taxes and no low compensation for apprentices in Großpetsdorf, which was clarified by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs. In part, there were half-truths, untruths, and above all there was a bit of fear-making. I want to tell you personally: Not all you say is wrong, but how you do it is wrong. Fearing is not the right answer. Dr. Haider! There's a good article, and you should read it. There, too, it says: Fear is always the wrong answer. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the EU criteria, Austria has an unemployment rate of 3.8 percent, the United Kingdom of Great Britain has 8.6 percent, France 11.6 percent, the USA 5.5 percent, Sweden 9.7% and so on. As far as unemployment is concerned, Austria is far below. However, we know very well that we now have to create framework conditions to prevent a threat to the rise in unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know: We live in a global economy, we live in the time of the opening of the East. We are living in the time – Mrs Ridi Steibl von der ÖVP has already pointed out – the third industrial revolution, and we are also living in an unprecedented time. You have to ask yourself: Are we going to work in Europe? – Answer: This is certainly not the case! In this respect, there is a very interesting article in the 'Salzburger Nachrichten', in which it also means that we must create new framework conditions. – When I talk about fear here, I now take – probably unwarranted – the Federal Chamber of Commerce at hand. Mr Maderthaner said that: The increase in consumer prices, including the inflation rate, is 2.2 percent; the EU effect is minus 0.8 percent. So it's not that bad in Austria! Or: the investments. There was an increase of 5.7 percent in Austria from 1994 to 1995. That's what we're proud of! And another note: Despite changed conditions, the unemployment rate is still lower, by 0.2 percent, than in the 1993 crisis year. Schilling has become 10 percent harder in the years since 1990. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We of the Social Democracy are, of course, giving priority to employment policy. In recent years, structural changes have also succeeded in privatising – the positive examples of the ÖIAG and other businesses show this – to deal better with recessions than other countries. It has already been said today – but one should repeat that – that from 1985 to 1995 the number of jobs in Austria increased by around 11 percent. One should not always be afraid, but it would be better to create concepts together. Dr. Haider! I don't think everything you say is wrong, but as you do, it's wrong to make yourself here, to work fear-making and so on. It is not necessary to make the economy sick, but it is not necessary to pray them in good health. The economy needs optimism, and optimism is also to be seen here from Parliament! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Those who see reports from France, the United States or from other countries on television, where they see the effect of youth unemployment where young people tend to live, will be glad that we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in Austria at all. Ladies and gentlemen! You can blame the Federal Government for everything, but it is not true that it does not care about youth! She's trying to go new ways with the apprentices. – Mr Dr. Haider, I believe you have been standing on the wrong foot today. The construction industry and so on has already been mentioned. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! If it was really as bad in Austria as you say, I have to ask: Why does BMW invest in Steyr for 3.5 billion schilling? Why does Opel invest in Aspern by 4.9 billion schilling? Why does Hofmann la Roche invest 1.5 billion Schilling in Linz? Why does Siemens invest in Villach by 3.5 billion schilling? [[Abg. Dr. Ofner: Globalization! Division of work!]] That's all right, Dr. Ofner! I'm convinced: We all have no patent recipes, no universal responses to globalisation, to the international division of labour. But one cannot predict the great coalition that it is not trying to create the appropriate framework conditions, those conditions that make this Austrian economy – the indicators point out – competitive and keep the unemployment rate very low, Dr. Haider! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to talk about all the measures now, but I already want to take one point because we are constantly being beaten to the labour market administration. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the previous year, the labour market service provided around 2.7 billion schilling to re-train and qualify unemployed and people threatened by unemployment for the increasingly rapid needs of the working world. The second point I would like to add from the Social Ministry's package of measures: industrial resettlement policy. In my district, there are farms that have received large subsidies, but now go to the Czech Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Euroquarz and others, Dr. Ofner! You know that too little, because you're never in our district, so you can't talk. You better take care of your own district, you've got enough to do. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Ofner.]] Dr. Ofner! I know we are not living on any island of the Blessed, we are exposed to the sharp wind of the international competition. . But now I want to come to a point because we are always talking about additional labour costs. I spoke to works councils yesterday about Semperit. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if the additional wage costs were to fall, Semperit would not be competitive, because the hourly wage, including additional wage costs in the Czech Republic, is 52 S; that is a fifth of that in Austria. But there we are called as consumers; we also have strength there. And if, for example, Semperit or Conti really go to the Czech Republic, I'm sure I won't buy a single semi-trailer anymore. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, you can say: Our economy is not broken. There are changed framework conditions, but I believe that our Federal Government has taken the right steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10166	Mr Dr. Haider has made an actual correction. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10190	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marizzi has said here that, in connection with the criticism that the apprentices in the workshop "Youth at the Work" in Großpetersdorf are being compensated under the collective contract, I would have said the untruth. That's wrong! – The Minister confirmed to me this morning that there has actually been this maladministration. He himself had given an appropriate instruction three weeks ago. I have told the Minister that on Saturday I met with the apprentices who have shown me that this is still not repaired. It will therefore be necessary, together, to ensure that apprentices come to a collective contractual compensation. It would be your job – just as I do – to remind you here instead of practicing criticism of me, because I use it for apprentices.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10220	I call Mr Dolinschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10242	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate at this special meeting on the important issue of "Work for Austria" has shown that although most speakers, including the two Federal ministers Ditz and Hums, have all set a goal of maintaining full employment in Austria, the paths there are very different. Yes, there are several ways to achieve a common goal, but after how the debate was held – I now recall certain statements made by my colleague and Mr Ditz: it is not a pity for the Austrian economy, no black and white painting, no optimism is required – I ask: What is this federal government doing? – She painted black and lamented us that the problems had occurred as a result of the opening of the East, through the bureaucracy, due to lack of flexibility. Who is responsible, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] You from SPÖ and ÖVP are responsible for your sitting in the Federal Government. They form a coalition, and you would have to solve it! Ladies and gentlemen! It is up to the opposition to point out these maladministrations. Mr. Federal Minister Ditz said that there was also a strong competition on the world market, but in Austria economic growth was still higher, we still had the lowest unemployment rate. It also said: The objective of the Austrian Federal Government's employment policy is not to allow wage dumping; new working time models and training opportunities are to be created to compensate for seasonal fluctuations. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been calling for this for a long time now! We do not want a wage dumping either. I do not understand that the Minister for Social Affairs here encourages full employment – no question! – but also regrets the consequences of the opening of the East and points out that in the nineties, which were very difficult, the number of employed persons was substantially increased by about 11 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! How do you get to this number of self-employed workers in the nineties? – In principle, the jobs for Austrians have become less. These jobs have been allocated to foreign workers. There has also been, as it were, a large farmer's death during this period. These farmers have also pressed the Austrian labour market and are integrated into the number of self-employed workers who are now slightly higher. Mr Sozialminister! They have said that the social partners have made wage statements in recent years with a view to: Employment will continue to be ensured, there will be more jobs. – But you have to stick to the truth: Every flexible model of working time – I myself work in working groups, and we also work out a flexible working time model with a calculation period throughout the year – can only work in such a way that it is within the provisions of the Working Time Act and that there is no wage dumping. That is why I do not understand certain statements, such as those made by Mr Ditz, who said: The abolition of the taxation of overtime supplements would be nothing more than that there would be work for fewer people and more unemployed. – This can be no contradiction, ladies and gentlemen, because in principle labour costs in Austria are too high, and the working time law is too rigid. There must therefore be a certain degree of flexibility, but within this law on working time, with a certain number of overtime hours, up to 60 per year. But there should be no overtime taxation. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The overtime supplements should remain tax-free, because no employer in Austria does not allow overtime if it is not worth it, and no employee does overtime only because it is so funny, but because he wants to make more money because he wants to do something because he wants to build a house, wants to set up his home because he strengthens his purchasing power, and that will benefit the economy again; that is a certain cycle – and no contradiction. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr President, the same horn hit the same horn when he said: If overtime taxation were lifted, it would be counterproductive. I can only point to this, Mr President: You should go more often in certain establishments and listen to the problems there. There are certainly workers who say: If I have more free time, I'm right. But these are those who have already created something that has already established a family that is therefore preferable to more leisure time. But there are also the others who are 20 to 30 years old, who are still fully under construction, and who hit this particularly hard. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today it was said that there is the lowest youth unemployment in Austria. - Then I have to say: Look You're looking at the statistics! Mr Marizzi said that there was the lowest youth unemployment rate in Austria, so the Federal Government cannot be blamed. But this federal government must take measures to ensure that this does not change. Mr Marizzi! You know very well that the number of apprentices has fallen, and they have fallen by 26 percent over the last ten years. The number of training establishments is also declining. There we also need to put on the lever to make it more attractive. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Those measures that have so far been put in place to lift the image of the apprentice have actually had nothing to do with it. "Career with teaching" and so on, these whole keywords have actually brought nothing. We still have a shortage of skilled workers that we need to fix. You must also admit that measures put in place were a mistake, such as raising the local tax for apprentices. As a result, the apprentice has also become an increased cost factor. The proposals of the Federal Chamber of Commerce to freeze the compensation for apprentices in the first to the second academic year I can't afford anything at all. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the apprentices should be upgraded so that we can have enough skilled workers in the future. That is why I also tabled the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10410	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mrs Silhavy is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10434	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out in detail the comments made by my previous speaker: If you have followed the media reports, you will have heard that last Friday the Federal Chancellor promised at a press conference that the teaching workshop will be continued by Siemens in Fohnsdorf and the ÖBB workshop in Knittelfeld. I also know that our Minister for Social Affairs has made a significant contribution to this. I think these are the essential points. We are measured by the actions, not by the words. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister Hums! I also very much welcome the fact that this year's labour market service focuses on women in non-traditional occupations. However, I am aware that it can only be an impulse to weaken the shared labour market in its effect. In any case, the economy is addressed. It is about eliminating both the horizontal disadvantage of women and the vertical disadvantage in the professional world. However, women are also indirectly discriminated against in terms of working time. In fact, part-time work is mainly not offered if the workers wish, for example in the form of a legal claim after the year of birth, but part-time work is primarily offered where low-paid areas are concerned. In extreme form, we find this part-time work for the minor employees. I just refer to the contribution by Mrs Schaffenrath, who pointed out these problems. This reduction in working time does not solve problems, but creates new ones. However, I share the view expressed by Minister Ditz that it cannot be so that less and less work is needed to do so more and more unemployed. However, we must firmly oppose this type of reduction in working time, the escape from labour and social law, the abuse by exploiting the dependence of the working people on work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A further development in the labour market seems to me to be extremely worrying. In Styria, about two thirds of the unemployed are affected by a new form of unemployment, namely those people who are again employed by the same service provider after a certain period of unemployment. They are said to be "interparked" in unemployment insurance. This kind of "flexibilization" may not be considered desirable. Today, Dr. Feurstein has addressed individual flexibilisation, taking into account one aspect: Option, Dr. Feurstein, has only that person who is not dependent. This dependence is due to the fact that the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs under the leadership of our Federal Minister for Human Rights and the Minister of Women Dr. Konrad strives to counteract discrimination against women in the working world by means of steering mechanisms. In fact, the disadvantage of women in the working world will only be eliminated if there is a broad social consensus. The humane approach to the topic of women and the working world is illustrated by the following sentence: The feminist illusion of the self-realization of the woman and mother in the profession has proved to be a fatal error. – To read in "The Freedom I Mean". The occurrence of Dr. Partik-Pablé against family integration also seems very strange when she calls at the same time after the recruitment of seasonal eggs. This means that the employment model of the FPÖ looks like this: Workers are not socially insured at any time, which can be employed under the worst conditions. Interesting in this question, however, is also a quote from the "standard" of 5. February 1996: Vienna: We need foreigners like a bite of bread, says the industrialist, neoparliamentary and new spokesperson of the FPÖ, Thomas Prinzhorn, opposite the "standard". This also confirms the assessment of the "Industrial Magazine" of February 1995. There it says: A free economic programme does not exist. Instead, a policy is pursued according to the wish-dir-what-principle, a policy that demands everything that is popular. So I do not want to contradict Mr Haupt, who said that the FPÖ does not fall into the "populist narrowstigel". Your party's contributions today have shown: They grab deep into a different vessel and enter every proverbial nap.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10510	The next speaker is Mr Rosenstingl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10531	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Marizzi – he is not here at the moment – and also other colleagues from the government groups always think that the liberals are afraid – and we should leave that. Ladies and gentlemen! You should finally see the reality and see how it is about Austria, its economy and its jobs in Austria. There has been a drop in investment enthusiasm. Positive measures must therefore be taken to revitalize the economy. We have been debating here since 10 a.m., but there has been no single proposal from the government parties, no single request on how to operate job security in Austria. – The only proposals have come from the liberals. You should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] With his statement, Federal Minister Ditz was the best proof of how unsuccessful this government coalition is when it comes to introducing economic-invigorating measures. These statements – including those made by Mr Hums, Federal Minister for the Interior – were beautiful dyes, they were not at all practical at all. Announcing how you make Mr Ditz at every speech here in this House, that everything will be improved, will be of no use in Austria: They do not benefit both entrepreneurs and workers! They from SPÖ and ÖVP have been in a coalition government since 1986. And we've heard these announcements since 1986. I ask you: Who will prevent you from adopting appropriate laws so that economic measures can actually be taken? – They would even have the support of our liberals. I have the impression that this government is simply overwhelmed. You have no future prospects, you have no competence in job security, you have also – as I have mentioned – not yet taken any action. The only proposals we have made were liberals. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The construction industry is of great importance to economic recovery and measures need to be taken quickly. The implementation of upcoming construction projects, particularly in Carinthia, is therefore to be started. We achieve two effects. Firstly, such measures would stimulate the economy and would also help Carinthian tourism. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What is important for Carinthia is also important for the whole of Austria. Therefore, large-scale construction projects still need to be built in 1996, projects which are labour-intensive. I would therefore like to make a second request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wormitzer.]] – Mr Colleague! A break-up in the Austrian economy will only reach you by strengthening the economic strength of companies, not by your unconstructive policy that you operate in the government coalition! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This includes, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, the EIA, leaving profits to the greatest extent possible in companies. If today the Minister of Economic Affairs has told us twice that he does not think that the profits that have been withdrawn are less taxed, then I must say that I am sorry that Austria has such an economic minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber should also have been working to ensure that tax increases are not raised in Austria, but tax cuts. However, the Board should also work to ensure that the additional wage costs are not increased by the fact that they themselves increase the additional wage costs by their compulsory contributions and thus continue to burden the farms. We believe that the Chambers have to take workplace-proofing and economic recovery measures. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! You, in particular the representatives of the Federal Chamber of Commerce, could now prove whether you really want to do something for entrepreneurs in Austria. Finally, I would like to say: Government parties do not set up initiatives for job security in Austria. They lack all future prospects for a future, for an economic recovery in Austria. In the interests of Austrian workers and entrepreneurs, I ask you to support the requests made by us.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10784	The three applications are properly supported and are under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10809	Mr President. Minister! Austria had a seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 3.9% at the end of April 1996. The European Union had almost three times as high, 11 percent. This is undoubtedly a great success, a great success, although the increase in unemployment compared with the previous year should not leave us cold. I would like to speak in my speech, after today's very, very much talking about economy, businesses, economic power, dealing with people, namely, people who are free from work, free in a double sense: the unemployed. I believe that such a discussion is not suitable for a speculative discussion that the importance of employment can best be seen at its opposite, namely that of what is unemployment, namely simply distress, mental and physical distress, depression, social isolation, self-destructive guilt, most of which go hand in hand with it. That is, employment is a central life experience, is not only income security, is not only satisfying consumer needs, but jobs and jobs are important for life satisfaction, for confirmation as a source of social recognition and as a basis for social contacts. The social costs of unemployment are therefore always too high. You're always too high. They're called suicide, they're called alcohol and drug abuse, they're called crime and violence. This is clear from studies that the increase in unemployment is also accompanied by the rise in the rate of crime, particularly affected women, older workers, young people and ethnic minorities. If 35 million people are unemployed in the industrialized countries, equivalent to 8.5 per cent, and in some areas of Europe youth unemployment is 50 per cent and more, 50 per cent are too many. Unemployment is a socially undesirable phenomenon and must therefore be fought decisively as such. The transfer of capital and production without frontiers has brought people – regardless of their social level of development and culture – to compete with those who offer a much more favourable cost structure: with the countries of South-East Asia, for example. An Austrian with a 100 square meter apartment, with two studying children, with cars and everything that belongs to the Western standard of living, must compete with a Korean who lives on 30 square meters, rides the wheel to work and whose children themselves have to finance their studies. That means: The strengthening of research and also the concentration on services will not cover the progressive loss of jobs and the demigration of production to these emerging economies, and I would add that the exclusive beneficiaries of this situation are the owners of capital. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What I would argue for, because many of these problems are structural problems and today's workers are no longer comparable to previous skilled workers, and work is no longer the main productive force when companies replace human work with computer-integrated manufacturing systems, which produce better and more flexible, and thus learnt workers and auxiliary workers are driven out of the process: If only a few industrial workers can keep pace with the new working conditions to work in independent teamwork, to bear responsibility for a complex system of machines and robots and the other marginal workers, become temporary workers, at any time announceable, according to the needs of the enterprises, so if work results in some work and others no longer have work, then the work that leads to the elimination of work. That is, the central point, the central conflict, in my view, is that there must be a new catalogue of freedoms and rights: the right to learn, study at every age and not merely to reproduce its labour force, to recycle, to develop the right to public and political activities, the right to remain in sick relatives, the right to self-employment, the right to sovereignty of time. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] A reduction in working time is therefore essential, and that is what I mean not only in terms of daily or weekly working hours, but above all in terms of annual working hours, in terms of working time. If the economy offers a large part of the working population only more interrupted, temporary, half-day or precarious employment if precarious workers are paid only more for the work done, but not for time-disposability, and if between 70 and 90 percent of the small employees are women, then this is a cryous injustice. It is an injustice that a part of the population is working all day, while an ever larger part of the shorter time is working with lower wages and a part of it remains unemployed at all. In my view, therefore, employment must be reduced for all, because the individual has an untouchable right not only to income but also to work, a right to his own development. Unemployment can be understood as a temporary interruption of participation in economic activity, but not as an option not to be involved in the labour process at all. If a certain amount of work is necessary for the existence of society and its individuals – and this is given by the nature of things – then no one should bear the burden of necessity for others, no one should be exempted from it. I am therefore also skeptical of all the demands made by the Liberal Forum on Unemployed Basic Income, because it guarantees a right to income, but not the right to work, and the right to work is inseparably linked to the right to income. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my view, the feeling of social belonging belongs not only to the right to income, but above all to the feeling that others need me to be able to do what corresponds to social goals. But it is tragic and sad that man is able to shoot himself at the moon, produce excellent technologies, but not to achieve an intelligent work organisation or a work distribution. If the volume of work required by society decreases and if unemployment increases, then the amount of work required by society must be redistributed. If the regular working time is falling and the sovereignty of time is increasing – and this in the case of increasing productivity – working time has to be redistributed. If one knows that around 1900, 3,000 hours of work were needed to produce one fifth of what is produced today in 1,600 hours of annual work, then one recognizes the need for socially compatible redistribution of time and work. In my view, this is the priority employment policy objective that must now be achieved in the sense of justice.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10897	Mrs Hagenhofer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10918	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has been said by Mr Partik-Pablé today, Minister Hums is making bad labour market policies, and it has been said by Dr. Haider that the labour market service only manages the unemployed. . Since labour market services have been mentioned repeatedly today, I would like to clarify a number of points and also to say fundamentals to Mr Feurstein. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He praised it!]] Yes, I also understood that he praised it. He said the labour market service is now working better. I would like to say a few words about this. The labour market service had to carry out a task before the exclusion – that is, prior to "privatisation" under quotation marks – as well as now, that of bringing together service providers and service providers for the purpose of establishing a service relationship. The labour market service is not able to create jobs except for project jobs – it could not and cannot do so at the time. We have had a good, very good unemployment rate before the exclusion, and we do not have a particularly bad one now, although we cannot call it a good one. What I want to say with it: The labour market service is, of course, very dependent on the market, and it is not easy to say that there was poor management and now it is better. I wanted to make that clear. We have always pursued professional qualification, i.e. active labour market policy. It is very important – and that, I believe, is now the point: Dr. Partik-Pablé has criticized bad labour market policy – that Minister Hums insists on his labour market policy. This includes the framework conditions for the labour market, including compliance with and verification of the framework conditions, and this includes the collective wage as the most important social component. The desire to cut down on this collective wage has made Mr Ceska quite clear by saying that it should also be possible to employ the unemployed under the collective contract wage. We will never be able to compete with Manila on a cost-effective basis. There are wrapped by 80 sizes per hour of electrical parts. With us the same work costs 80 s per hour. This "standard" can and will never be achieved, and therefore it is important for Minister Hums to insist on this labour market policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister Ditz said today that he would not have noticed that the wages are being revised downwards. According to my experience in the labour market service Braunau, this is very likely, and that is logical, because this market is just as regulated as anyone else: Supply regulates demand. If many jobseekers come to a job, then of course the wage level goes down, that is. An example: Someone told me about the offer of a service provider: Buy this air cleaning device – costs: 30,000 S – and if you sell it, you get a guaranteed commission. I mean, it can't be that way, so it can't go. Deregulation cannot be the solution to the employment problem, but at best constitute a complement in the field of working time flexibility. One more request: not a free market for wages, because the gap between the poor and the rich would only increase. Mr Partik-Pablé – and I would like to point out this too – meant that foreigners are sunk in our social system, and that will not change as long as the Minister lets these foreigners in. – What is meant by Mr Rossmann asking Minister Hums when he will allow the next quota of foreign workers for the tourism sector? - There's double-beddedness! Please stay. I'm sure she's honest. If you say you don't want foreigners, then you can't ask questions when the next quota will come! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my district, a servant asked me: Why don't I get this alien? I know her. She's a good cook. You know, we have to calculate the costs, and this alien would not be so accurate. - So that's not the way to go. We must be particularly careful, and I am therefore very glad that Minister Hums does not let go of it. Mr Steibl and Mr Gatterer thought that qualified teleworking places were necessary. I can tell you the following: We started a project together with TechnoZ Braunau. People who are interested in this are enough, but the businesses are not yet ready to do so, there is no response yet. I would also like to say that teleworking does not regulate child care. This means that, in addition to teleworking, it is very likely that child care will be taken care of. [[President Dr Neisser shall take over the chairmanship.]] One final example: The FPÖ said, in connection with the savings measures, that if the social security institutions were to be grouped together, this would result in a cost savings. I quote from a request made in the Upper Austrian Land Day, in which the FPÖ asked not to close the district courts, because the people should not be denied access to the law. If, however, you are asking for the exact opposite of the local health telephone, then You have already explained to the people how access to the right in terms of sickness and pension insurance can be seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10974	Second speech by Mrs Kier. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e10995	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will keep my second speech very short. We have now had the opportunity to deal with all the resolutions of the Freedom Party in all the necessary hurry. I did not want to hide the outcome of this, so that our voting behaviour will not be misinterpreted as a result. We believe that the procedure adopted unfortunately has a great similarity with the procedure of the Federal Government which we criticised: A large convoy was presented to us quite in the short term, and in this case still with the claim to vote on it immediately. In our view, these motions for resolutions contain very important elements. It will therefore be a matter of looking for a way to bring these elements seriously into parliamentary discussion. It seems that today is not suitable because the debate has not focused on these requests, but rather on other purposes; You all know what I mean. We cannot agree to the same without regard to the content of these applications.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11026	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11047	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make one point, out of solidarity with my colleagues, on the subject of apprentices. Mr Posch has explained here what unemployment is causing in people, how dramatic it is. I would like to put my finger on the problem of apprenticeship unemployment and youth unemployment, because I believe that this has another, an additional breeze, a dramatic dimension. We all know that since 1991 there has been a dramatic disparity between the supply of teaching places and those looking for teaching places, namely those of the apprentices. In this context, I would particularly like to point out that young people who are facing the problem of unemployment are also faced with the problem of prospectlessness. That is, a youth with 14, 15 years of age, a girl or a boy, is given the feeling that they are not necessary in this society, they could not contribute to the fact that they have no place in this society. Young people 14, 15 years of age, if they are permanently cancelled on applications – and we know that – in contrast to older people, they become much faster in a state where they say: I'm guilty of it myself! I am therefore particularly concerned about this because I believe that youth unemployment has an enormous social explosive force throughout its dimension, for example from England and France. In this respect, Mrs Partik-Pablé's statements – unfortunately not here now – have already shaken me several times. The FPÖ and in particular Mrs Partik-Pablé have presented what I mean by: From the fact that young people doubt themselves to blame themselves, the ground is prepared for a scapegoat philosophy. Mr Partik-Pablé has told us today that foreigners are guilty of it. That's exactly what I'm talking about! If you stand up and pretend to be able to pursue labour market policy with foreigners-rauss-Parolen, I must tell you: It won't help. But I know it's part of your propaganda. That's exactly the problem: If you divide foreigners and foreigners, you prepare the ground for a development from which you do not know what will come out in the end. Finally, I would like to say one more thing about apprentices: There should be a burden compensation between training establishments and non-training establishments. But it's more part of it. I believe that we should also address the problem of teaching as a dead end. Although "Career with Teaching" is a nice and well-known slogan, this vision does not largely correspond to reality. The teaching is not very attractive, both in terms of income and in terms of decision-making, promotion and further training opportunities. There are two figures that prove this very well: 41 percent of apprentices change their profession after graduation of teaching, according to an above Austrian IBE study, 59 percent of graduates would recommend to their children a secondary school instead of a teaching. I believe that this is an important point that should be considered, and not only the Federal Government and the social partners are invited to act – to act very quickly – but also the entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11095	I call Mr Klepsch. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11117	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is truly remarkable that FPÖ has today succeeded in making no concrete proposal, such as administrative reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Meschberger.]] We're not you, Mr. Meischberger. – But in terms of keywords, common places and phrases you really convinced today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Positive, constructive ones are absolutely missing. On the contrary: Mr Prinzhorn, who wanted to be a parade entrepreneur, did not leave a good hair on the state and the authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! I would point out that the entrepreneur receives subsidies from this state, from its authorities, from liabilities, and from rehabilitation subsidies. – I don’t blame him, but if you’re already holding the hand in the state, like Mr. Dipl.-Ing. Do not you have to follow the rules of the game? – It is unbearable, Mr Prinzhorn, who, in connection with the Brigl & Bergmeister company in Styria, represent as a benefactor for thousands of workers, that hundreds of violations of working time regulations are documented by the County Head Team Leoben. What are the main crimes? 12-hour work, overrun of weekly working hours, non-compliance with weekend rest, non-compliance with holiday rest, non-compliance with replacement rest periods. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: But that's interesting!]] If you are already receiving subsidies from the Austrian state, ladies and gentlemen, then you must also adhere to the Austrian labour constitution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The paper industry in Styria and the FPÖ people are a special chapter. The KNP-Leykam company in Gratkorn invests 6.5 billion schilling and builds the most modern paper machine in the world, as Dr. ==References== It is a matter of commenting here on the fact that there is emptiness, nothing but a moaning emptiness. I know the motives of Dr. Haider. It is, of course, a thorn in his mind when a region thrives economically and is successful if there are well-paid jobs when apprentices are trained in large numbers. What Dr. Haider wants is crisis, unemployment and dissatisfaction. Then he can play people against each other and go in the murky for the catch of votes. It's a long way through, and it's also on the 17th. ==References====External links==* Official website Dr. Haider! Take note once and for all that the employees of the KNP-Leykam in Gratkorn have a model. They want to be the most successful paper company in Europe. This is not an act of overconfidence, because that is feasible. – But Dr. Haider says: Empty, yawning emptiness! This is an incredible derailment, an immense insult to the decent and diligent people in the Graz area. Mr. Dr. Haider, I ask you: Excuse me!
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11172	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Reichhold. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11194	Mr President. I do not see any representatives of the Federal Government here in plenary. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the SPÖ:You need to look better! Look to the left!]] [[Federal Minister Hums, hidden by officials, stands behind the government bank.]] He's just talking to his officials. I didn't see anyone on the government bank. I note that he is probably discussing the current situation on the Austrian labour market with his officials somewhere. For the speaker, it is quite unpleasant if the government bank is empty, because it looks as if the government is pressing ahead with its responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The debate today was very interesting for us: Several aspects have appeared, these have been illuminated from a wide variety of sides, but one thing has particularly occurred to me: No speaker of the government parties has today managed to justify the election slogan of the EU's accession campaign, which is related to today's issue. This vote log reads as follows: The EU creates jobs. – Unfortunately, this is not the case! Just the opposite is the case: Since Austria joined the European Union, unemployment has increased dramatically in Austria. However, it has not been mentioned by the government parties today as a single measure which would only mitigate this drama on the labour market for those concerned. Mr Ditz spoke today about the opportunities offered by the EU. What do these opportunities look like? How are these opportunities used? If you look at the balance sheet of Austria regarding the use of EU funding in 1995, you will have to give me the right to say that 3 billion Schilling funding is still in Brussels in 1995 and that also through the famous Austrian lobbying, it has not been possible to make use of these funds for the Austrian economy and for the security of Austrian jobs. In my opinion, a major reason for this is that the Chambers have failed in this matter to date, and have seriously failed. As a Member of Parliament, I myself had the opportunity to follow the lobbying of the Chambers and the various institutions in Austria. [[Abg. Grabner: But you weren't there for long!]] [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: You were never there!]] They know that, although the Chambers, the federal states, and the Federal Government are opening up great offices in Brussels, more and more officials are piling to Brussels, many opportunities are missing in the final effect and many funding funds remain there. They themselves had to note, in an embarrassing way, that one of the Commissioners of Brussels, Karel van Miert, accused the Austrians of one-to-one transfer of the Austrian pro-porz system to the European Union. – If you are proud of it, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Many important tasks, Mrs Tichy-Schreder, have already taken over private organisations. Many young lawyers, young people who have partly also worked in the chambers, are now integrated into these organizations, and they have told me that they have confirmed to me that there is much faster, much more flexible, than in these dusty organizations, which apparently do not manage to use the opportunities of Austria in the European Union by means of proper lobbying. I would like to show you how the Austrian bureaucracy fails by means of the example of a Carinthian company. A successful company that has exported over decades to the food industry and the meat processing industry has been in great trouble last year. Over 200 employees employed this company. Since the accession of Austria to the European Union, the refunds to be paid by the Austrian financial authorities were no longer processed or paid out, but of course the European Union took over this task. ==References== In January 1995, the company submitted the corresponding applications for reimbursement to the competent customs office. Although the official who was sitting there did not know what to do with these applications, he did not accept them. There was nothing going on until March. Then he received a call from a customs office from Salzburg and was asked if he had submitted appropriate requests for refunds. The entrepreneur confirmed this, but became bold. He researched and pointed out that these applications had not been forwarded. He then made a further request in March, but the official who received these applications did not know the new situation. The trader was informed that it was only in a seminar that officials had to be trained for the new situation. In the meantime, however, three and a half months had passed. Austria was already in the EU. This farm has been waiting for its refunds for three and a half months and has, of course, been in difficulty. [[Abg. Grabner: That's what he was before!]] In June, this entrepreneur – I have the act here, Mr. colleague, you can then study it; it will also have a replay – turned to his professional representative. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grabner]] The professional representation then intervened with the Finance Office and the Minister of Finance with a letter, and after about two months, the then head of the Finance Minister, Mr Kornfeld, responded to the letter of professional representation. In the reply to this letter of July last year, the head of the Ministry of Finance pointed out that the situation in Austria was unclear with regard to this refund and that the EU Commission had to ask itself about the new rules. After half a year, ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian authorities wake up from their winter sleep to find out how the new refund systems are to be handled at the European Union. This, ladies and gentlemen, is really a declaration of bankruptcy of the Austrian bureaucracy and shows that EU accession has not been prepared at all! After another month, this entrepreneur will receive a letter of the same content from the Ministry of Finance's officials. This letter also stated that the Austrian Federal Government or the authorities will consult the new regulations by means of a request from the EU Commission. As a member of the EU, I myself had the opportunity to speak for this company in Brussels and to tell myself what the situation looks like. – I have received the necessary answers from the relevant officials in 10 minutes! The Austrian Federal Government, but the Austrian authorities, need nine months to learn how the European Union intends to handle the new refund schemes. Unfortunately, this is the problem the economy has with bureaucracy in Austria! In the meantime, this company has suffered a damage of 14 million schilling – with consequential damage, because even exports had to be taken back, the markets lost and the customers disappeared. In addition, this company was also a victim of consumer abuse, in which it also lost several million. Result: In January of this year, this company went into bankruptcy, 200 jobs, ladies and gentlemen, are under foot. – This is "workplace policy made in Austria", you should not be proud of it. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Since the Austrian authorities are proven to be guilty of this incident, this entrepreneur will, of course, complain to the Austrian authorities. We should be concerned about the extent to which the procedure will then lead to late justification for the right behaviour of the entrepreneur. Unfortunately, my time is no longer sufficient to address the comments made by Mr Schwarzenberger. He was quite right to point out that job security in agriculture is also of great importance. We have been able to point out several times in other debates how important this concern is to us liberals, and we would like to make a motion for a resolution today. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to put forward and read a second motion for a resolution in this context. [[President Dr. Neisser gives the bell sign.]] Mr President, if you still allow me to do so. Thank you. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11377	The two motions for resolutions before us are sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. Mrs Tichy-Schreder has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11402	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have held a long debate today, and many motions for resolutions have been tabled by the Freedom Party, which aim to strengthen Austria's economic location and to change the job situation. I have looked at these motions for resolutions and I have found many contradictions in them. It was not written off from others, as Mr Stadler said, but they are indeed contradictory. That is why we cannot accept these requests. At first glance, the proposed measures seem plausible, but with a more detailed analysis it turns out that there are loud air bubbles, as the honourable Member has said, and air bubbles really do not want to give a place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also note that the liberals have put forward their own motion for a resolution on job security specifically for construction projects in Carinthia. That's strange! If construction projects, then for total Austria, but not for a federal country alone. I believe that we here in Parliament are responsible for all the federal states and not only for a federal country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from that, construction projects have already been presented to the public, including Carinthia. At least this is a total of 33 billion schilling, which should take place in order to improve the job situation in Austria and boost the construction industry. I also found it interesting that Mr Dipl.-Ing. In his introduction, Prinzhorn said – and this is happening through all the motions for resolutions – that he regrets that the share of development expenditure of Austria in terms of gross domestic product is below average in relation to other OECD countries. - I'll give it to him. That's right. But it does not take into account the research and development carried out in many small and medium-sized enterprises. This research does not seem to appear, although it is precisely it that makes these companies internationally successful. Its conclusion that we cut below average in the OECD average for research and development expenditure is that the long-term consequences of this are deindustrialisation and job losses as well as low innovability. I can't agree with that, because one thing is: We have found – and this is certainly what Mr Dipl.-Ing knows. Prinzhorn – that the number of industrial jobs has decreased because many of them have been outsourced to the service sector. 90 jobs in industry face 106 jobs in the service sector. This must also be pointed out. The flexibility of working time is also important. However, you can't see this the way the liberals have described it here. For example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I believe that the flexibility of working time should actually be shifted into collective agreements between the individual companies. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to make a request for flexibility of working time before the summer and do not wait for collective agreements, because flexibility in collective agreements will only be achieved in autumn, and this is relatively late. We want to achieve it earlier, together with a partnership. I am also concerned with the following: Ladies and gentlemen, you have made a point and have made proposals here, but forget that in Austria we have a social partnership, as Mr Verzellnich has said, not only at the highest level, but at different levels, up to the smallest units, into the holding. In this context, I would also like to ask Mr Mag. Let's say something: He meant that the volume of work was falling. - I'm against this. The volume of work is not falling! Work is enough. It's just about how the work is paid. We've got enough work to do. There are many areas – each one of us here in the house knows such areas – in which work is necessary, but in which there is no funding. We need to consider how we make work more attractive in these areas so that it is also paid. That is a very essential point. Mr Vergestnitsch said that Mr Maderthaner had no place in the labour market because of his age. To this end, I would like to say to him: It completely overlooks that it is most important for entrepreneurs to create jobs. And as an entrepreneur, he creates and receives jobs. What we need is more entrepreneurs who create jobs instead of just looking at who can be mediated on the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Deputies! I know, for example, that enough installers are being sought. [[Abg. Conscious: Then you should report this to the labour market service!]] Mr President of the Council! Call me installers who are unemployed. I know a lot of companies that need installers and search! [[Abg. Conspicuous: You should report that!]] There are also enough hairdressers that urgently need hairdressers and hairdressers, but they do not seem to exist. We have the problem of the correct placement of the workers and those who are able to work. There is a lot of thanks to God for the privatisation of labour market management. But more needs to be done in this respect. I know very well, in the federal states, where smaller units work, it works perfectly. The district of Braunau has the lowest unemployment rate because one knows each other. It is also wonderful in Mattersburg because you know and communicate with each other. It is more difficult in urban areas. There is still a lot to be done in this regard. What we need, however, is, as has already been said, optimism and also red tape. These are the next steps we have to take. However, we cannot achieve this only with this special meeting, but we need a lot more work to do. It is not a task of the federal government, but a task of the administration in the individual federal states to help people in the field of plant permits and the like. This problem arises not only in Austria but also in the European Union, in the individual Member States. Of course, there are requirements for this, and each authority has its share of processing to do so. But we want a concentration of these tasks. We believe that this is necessary. This can be done in part by creating special contact points in your own authorities, which then accompany the operation and help him to deal with it. This might also help in the case mentioned by Mr Reichhold in relation to EU funding. I can only say one thing: In other countries too, it has been difficult to make the changes in administration. The need to catch up is certainly there and there, I admit. But I am convinced that if he had immediately turned to the Chamber of Commerce, the operation would have come to a conclusion in the past. In this context, I would like to say that the most important thing is to give businessmen advice in a wide range of areas so that they can become free for the future of entrepreneurship. We need new ideas and new product design! But I can also tell you one thing – and I always notice this when I am abroad, especially in my capacity as an entrepreneur, but also when I see our companies abroad – that Austrian businesses and Austrian products have an excellent reputation abroad, that they are excellently accepted and that there are very good cooperations with other countries. Only: We must also say the positive and not just the negative! We need to monitor where our businesses are successful. I only found out yesterday about a company in Canada that has developed a whole new system, partly with US technology, where it can carry out cost reductions in other businesses, cost reductions that have not yet been recognized. The innovative power of Austrian companies, which may not be mentioned here and there with exact amounts in research and development, has been achieved, but Austrian companies – not large companies – have responded flexibly to the demands of the present day. There would be some names to mention, but these companies do not always want to be mentioned in the public as particularly good businesses, because they want to keep themselves from competition. You only know them in insider travels, thank God! Unfortunately, the public usually only learns about the businesses that fail. I do not think that is right. I think we should ask the uncalled Austrian companies that work positively in front of the curtain.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11478	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now holding a number of votes. First of all, I would ask all those who are not elected mandates to withdraw from the voting series. We now proceed first to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades on measures to strengthen Austria's economic location, safeguard Austria's international competitiveness and reduce unemployment. If you agree to this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades on the harmonisation of social security law and structural reform of social security institutions. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I ask for a sign. – The application has remained in the minority and is considered to be rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stadler and comrades on administrative reform measures to ensure employment and the economic location of Austria. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades on the implementation of a package of measures to support the crisis-stricken construction industry. Whoever is in favour of this request, may make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vanner and Mr Comrades on the reform of the insolvency right in order to improve the possibilities for rehabilitation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to make this known by a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades on the extension of industry-related and operational decision-making options in the field of labour law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schweitzer and comrades on the implementation of a non-profit-making environmental tax system. Whoever is for this purpose may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schweitzer and comrades on reducing waste management and environmental recovery costs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenstingl and others on the representation of the Federal Government in undertakings. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on overtime taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request may announce this by a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Böhacker and Mr Comrades on the introduction of the so-called Luxembourg model. Whoever is for this, may declare this by a sign of consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn and comrades on tax relief measures for the Austrian economy. Whoever is in favour of this request may declare this by a sign of consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Comrades on the comprehensive attraction of teaching. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades concerning the immediate realization of tender road construction projects in the Federal Republic of Carinthia. Whoever gives his assent to this motion for a resolution may express this by a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades on the early implementation of a labour force intensive work programme for the construction industry. Whoever gives his assent to this motion for a resolution may declare this by a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Main and comrades on the reduction of chamber charges. Whoever gives his assent to this motion for a resolution may declare this by a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Reichhold and comrades on job security in agriculture and forestry. Whoever agrees to this request may give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Partik-Pablé and others on foreign employment and unemployment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[The motion for a resolution tabled by Members of the European Parliament. Dr. Madeleine Petrovic and comrades concerning moratorium for release applications from genetically modified organisms have been withdrawn.]] 2. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (2 of the Supplements): Maklergesetz – MaklerG and on the motion for a resolution 107/A (E) by Mr Hans Schöllund Comrades on the framework conditions for the Makler Act (87 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11810	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item: Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (2 of the Supplements): Real estate law, and on the motion for a resolution 107/A (E) by Mr Schöll and Mr Comrades on the framework conditions for the Makler Act (87 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mr Dr Riedler. I ask him to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11828	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I report to the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (2 of the Supplements): Federal Law on the legal conditions of brokers and changes to the Consumer Protection Act (Maklergesetz – MaklerG) and on the request of Members Hans Schöllund comrades concerning framework conditions to the Realtor Act [(10)7/A (E)]. At its meeting on 27 February the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, held a meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. ==References====External links== On the government template, Member Dr Wolfgang Riedler, on the motion 107/A (E) of honourable Member Hans Schöll, reported. In the subsequent debate, MEPs from Fuhrmann, Barmüller, Schöll, Schwimmer, Ofner and Stoisits, as well as the Federal Minister for Justice, Dr. Nikolaus Michalek, took part in the debate. An amendment to the Government's proposal was tabled by Mr Schöll and by Mr Fekter, Mr Fuhrmann, Mr Schöll, Mr Barmüller and Mr Stoisits. In the vote, the Government template was adopted unanimously, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mr Fekter, Mr Fuhrmann, Mr Schöll, Mr Barmüller and Mr Stoisits, as put forward in this report. The amendment tabled by Mr Schöll found no majority. Similarly, the resolution contained in the 107/A (E) initiative of Mr Schöll and Mr Graf did not find the majority of the Committee on Justice. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Justice makes the request that the National Council first give constitutional approval to the draft legislation attached to the written committee report, 2. take note of this report. Mr President. I call for a debate on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11874	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his statement. The speaking time agreement has already been discussed. Mrs Fekter spoke. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11902	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The now debated broker law codifies for the first time a large number of important economic activities in the field of mediation. We have standardised by this law a uniform clear regulation for all brokers and special rules for real estate agents, brokers, insurance brokers and personal credit intermediaries. The law lays down rights and obligations and brings more transparency and better consumer protection. A key concern of the broker is the acquisition of the commission in the event of successful mediation. The private legal system of a legal relationship must therefore ensure that compliance with performance and consideration is ensured. Therefore, consideration should be given to both the interests of the clients – which is mostly the consumer – and to the interests of the brokers in this central point. In this field of tension is the whole law to be seen. In order to safeguard these different interests, § 3 requires special reporting obligations, which are standardised in terms of mutual due diligence in contract design. It is not implemented in detail in the law, which is to be understood by it, and I would therefore like to quote some cases here as an example. In particular, the contracting parties will have to notify themselves if there is a second contract involving another broker in the case of a multiple mandate, or if the sale or rental of the mediation object has taken place in the meantime, or if the conditions change, such as price, dates or state of the contract, or if necessary documents for the legal transaction, such as opinions, plans, contracts, administrative orders, court judgments or income calculations are to be delivered. The provision of other information, such as on previous types of use, for example due to any contamination or excessive load in the near environment, may also be part of the message obligations. It is of course also necessary to inform about future, already foreseeable taxes, such as taxes and fees. From all these provisions you can see that we want to create more transparency with the broker's law and that we want to reduce the existing distrust on the market and help build a functioning brokering, spoken mediation market. The accession of Austria to the EU has led to a changed situation in the field of insurance mediation, but this is not taken into account in this draft. The EU's consumer protection policy towards the insurance industry has taken the way to reduce State supervision in favour of insurance intermediaries. The general terms and conditions governing the conciliation agreement are to be defined separately in a separate directive. I very much regret that in Austria we do not have a satisfactory market with sufficient competition, especially in the insurance sector. It will therefore also be necessary in the near future to implement the EU’s Insurance Conciliation Directive, based on the general provisions of the Agents’ Act, which we will adopt today, into a separate insurance intermediary law. However, in the case of all regulatory densities, it must not be ignored that a law merely lays down the framework, but cannot replace contracts between the partners. That is why I am in detail against an obligation to contravene and also against commissions; this is only to the follow-up commission that has already been addressed today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the sale of real estate, the new real estate agent law brings improved consumer protection: Retirement within a week, special information obligations and for certain contractual agreements compulsorily enforce the form of writing, for example for commission payments in the absence of conciliation. However, these rules are not found in the Realtor's Act, but because of their importance to consumers in the Consumer Protection Act. The broker law required a relatively intense discussion at the preparatory stage, as it concerns sectors of the economy in which there is a huge field of tension between the clients, the intermediaries and consumers. I hope that this codification will bring us closer to a functioning conciliation market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11962	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuhrmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e11983	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the fact that there is only a very little left over from the time we are talking about, and I know that some Members have yet to speak, I am going to be more brief than I have proposed. I can also do so because Mrs Fekter, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, has already presented the essential points of this draft law. Ladies and gentlemen! As the main speaker of the Socialist Group in this House, I should like to say that: This government template has a relatively long legislative process, since many legal regulations were missing, which required a great deal of action by both consumers and brokers, since in the past there have been misunderstandings, difficulties, disputes and, ultimately, judicial disputes. It is to be hoped that the Realtor's Act, which we are going to adopt today – and I am pleased to say unanimously; I have seen that only pro-responsors have been notified – could eliminate essential uncertainty factors in this area. I am convinced that the inconsistencies, like all of us working in legal professions, have become less familiar with the practice in recent years. We will not be able to prevent them completely, it will still be disputed, but they will still be minimized. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There have been some politically controversial points. For example, it was controversial whether, as I believe, there should be a right of withdrawal – an extremely important measure, which is now decided by the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act in connection with the Realtor's Act – if the initial visit is signed at the same time as the order, and one should have time to think about it and to discuss it at home. The pressure that can be built up or emotionally built up during the visit of apartments is known to us all. We will now decide in a few minutes the possibility of withdrawal. The discussion focused on objects that are either rented or purchased in the case of an apartment in order to satisfy a housing need. I am pleased that, at the end of the day, the Committee on Justice has distanced itself from the originally planned limit of 3 million schillings and therefore the problem, which is when it is 3 010 000 S for example, did not arise at all. In fact, the one who signed the purchase price of 2 999 000 s could have resigned, whereas the one who had acquired more than 3 million schilling around 10 s could not have resigned. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that was very important. It was also important, in my opinion, to include the land to be purchased for the purpose of setting up a family home to meet a particularly urgent housing needs. The second point, which has been covered a little by the discussion of the real estate agent issue, which I believe is important, is that the insurance brokers have also succeeded in a consumer policy breakthrough with this broker law, because it is now established for the first time that the insurance broker, the free insurance broker, who in the past has been very often confused with the agents employed in the insurance sector and will certainly also be confused in the future, that the self-employed insurance broker is obliged from the law to offer and communicate to his customers, i.e. to the insurer, the best possible insurance variant. That is a very important provision. There are some concerns on the part of the insurance brokers regarding the provision in § 30 para. 40 of the Realtor's Law was applied to us, and they think that by the formulation of § 30 para. 4 would have been given into the hands of the overpowered insurance undertakings. Ladies and gentlemen! We have not changed the legal status, as he has so far existed. We have therefore certainly not done wrong to the independent insurance brokers. With regard to the possibility of foreign insurance as an independent insurance broker in Austria since membership of the EEA and, in particular, Austria, I assume that domestic self-employed insurance brokers will be able to enforce themselves through these possibilities to the Austrian insurance companies they have previously estimated to be overpowered. I would now like to say something related to the real estate law, but not to the Minister of Justice and his place of business, but to the Minister of Economic Affairs: The regulation, which now enters into force by the Realtor Act, is still an incomplete – but not because, for example, the Ministry had built with its presentation or we had with our work in the Justice Committee Pfusch and had produced something incomplete, but because – and for this reason the Ministry of Economic Affairs is responsible for this – the regulation which regulates the amount of commissions to be required by the brokers, in particular by the real estate agents. But I would like to make a comment on this: There is one, as I hear, unofficial draft from the Ministry of Economic Affairs on such a real estate broker's regulation, which I and many other colleagues in this House do not like from the content. This is not only the one point that the Liberal Forum has raised in its motion for a resolution, it is also about other points. That is why I would also like to ask for understanding, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberal Forum, that we do not agree with this request. I assume, however, that you are obviously not interested in it anyway, because no one of you has used us to vote in favour of it. I am now explaining why this motion for a resolution does not seem sufficient to us. In fact, this real estate broker regulation provides for regulations to be laid down, which would also cement for the future, that in Austria, in the field of real estate brokery, Europe's highest commissions and prices are to be paid. This cannot be, and must not be, any meaning or purpose of the whole matter, and one will certainly have to talk to the Minister of Economic Affairs about it; I do not know whether he has personally taken note of this preliminary draft from his house. The aim of such a regulation cannot be to pay for a monthly rent of around 9 000 S gross in Austria 27 000 S commissions, in Berlin 13 800 S, in Helsinki 8 200 S, in Zurich 6 140 S, in Bolzano 4 150 S, even including the establishment of a contract, and in Stockholm 1 600 S. I would add that due to the existing legal situation in London, Oslo, Brussels, Geneva and Copenhagen, the tenants would not have to pay any commission in such a case. Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that it will be possible for us to have reasonable discussions with the Ministry of Economic Affairs as the body responsible for this real estate agent regulation in the Federal Government. I'm a freelancer myself. I am not saying this from the inner attitude that any real estate agent is envious of his money, which he has actually earned. But it should not be – where we are always talking about European equality, especially in cases where it concerns those who may, or at least not, be among those who are among the best in our country – to pay disproportionately much more to commissions when looking for housing in Austria than in other comparable European countries. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have to come to the end because the speaking time imposed on me by myself in a certain self-discipline has expired. I am pleased that the relatively long negotiations between the parties, the political groups of this House and the Minister of Justice and its officials have led us to conclude in full agreement this very important legislative matter. This automatically means that my group will naturally be very happy to vote in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12057	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. – Please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12078	Mr President. Minister! Mrs Stoisits! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said in the previous words, this broker law is well balanced. It is, it can be said, also very user-friendly by establishing the right of withdrawal – a law in which the manuscript of a real expert, as I mean, that of my colleague Schöll, is clearly expressed. Officials and him are the thanks of consumers and brokers. Ladies and gentlemen! But the brokers are also grateful – especially today – in a different context: Thanks to the brokers, Germany's Minister of State Michalek and Secretary of State of Europe Schlögl is particularly important today, because in the last few days – Minister Michalek today at 5 p.m. – they have concluded with the deception maneuvers that have been launched by Vrannitzky, Klima, Cap & Co; Divination maneuvers that occurred before the 12th century. In June 1994, when they promised: The anonymity of the savings books remains untouched!, says Col. Cap on 8. ==References== Climate and Vranitzky did not tire of repeating this obvious untruth to this day. They obviously lack the courage to admit that they have misinformed the savers for better knowledge. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: What does this have to do with the broker law?]] Of course, the brokers have a great pleasure that the money now on the savings books will benefit them, as long as they are invested in the purchase of new apartments. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In fact, the savers note that the anonymity is not to be kept, despite the requirements of the Federal Chancellor. The legal version of Minister of Justice Michalek in today's "Standard" reveals what Vrannitzky, Klima, Cap & Co have told us over and over again. Once again, we can see what the government propaganda on the issue of the EU should mean. The attempt to get away with the daily repetition of untruths over the EU's election has been brought to an end by Schlögl a little earlier and by the Minister of Justice with today's clarification. Even if Minister Michalek in the "Abendjournal" has set up Vranitzkys on the backsalto, I would be interested to speak to Mr. Minister, as the quote is to be understood, if you decide to eliminate the possibility of anonymous accounting. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Realtor's Act!]] For the Austrian savers, it is now clear that they have to give their money to the agents, Mrs Colleague. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Anonymity is sacrificed on the EU altar. In the event that this still needs confirmation, it is now fresh from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: This is Schweizer Käse!]] The tomorrow edition of the "Press" says – you can read it –: It also has for some time had doubts about the anonymity of savings books. In one of the paper's internal papers, it is said that the Federal Government is committed to full implementation of the recommendations of the OECD Anti-Fishing Organisation FATF. [[Abg. May. Guggenberger: On the matter, Mr Schweitzer!]] A key recommendation from FATF concerns the so-called know-how-customs principle, which the European Union has also supported: Each bank should know the owners of its accounts by name. Ladies and gentlemen! There's nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12166	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Barmüller. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12192	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Schweitzer's brief departure, apparently borne by the concern for the anonymous savings books of the FPÖ-Burggenland für Sozialfonds and the like, back to the real issue, the broker's law, which concerns the summary of those legal bases that are so essential to the brokers' professions and which, now, thanks to God, have finally been grouped into a single matter. [[Intervocations of the Freeman]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. May. Guggenberger]] We believe that this approach is sensible and necessary and therefore we are in agreement with it. However, as Mrs Fekter and Mr Fuhrmann have already referred to the content of this law, I would like to highlight a little more particularly the political background of the situation, as this background, which is also known by Mr Schweitzer, was particularly marked by professional interests. As an example, I would like to draw attention to the commissions for real estate brokers, in particular the amount of commissions, which are particularly important for temporary lease contracts, since – in order to repeat this here again – the 3rd. The law on housing rights has not, as originally intended, led to more permanent lease contracts, but, quite the contrary, has led to many temporary lease contracts. And the shorter the duration of the temporary rental contracts, the stronger the commissions make. Mr Schöll also recognized this quite correctly, and on 31 December he therefore decided to refer to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling on the interpretation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71. A resolution was tabled in January 1996 calling for a reduction in broker commissions at European level. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: Unfortunately, in 1996 he was withdrawn and replaced by a very politically motivated one, so that the discussion on this important subject was a little too short. I therefore welcome the fact that Mr Fuhrmann has made this debate known. The Liberals, with the motion for a resolution, as you rightly said, Mr Fuhrmann, want to take out only a very small area, because you know that: The larger the areas, the greater the possibility to have disagreements with the ideas. I do not wish to hide from you the following: If your site is really willing to enter into a discussion regarding real estate brokers' regulation and to solve more and more comprehensively, we are willing to withdraw this request in order not to presuppose any negotiation. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: That's great!]] Maybe it's 22nd or 23rd. It is a good date for a resolution on this subject to take a few substantial steps. If that's the case, I'll be very happy to do that. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: Let's talk about it, pull it back!]] However, I would like to say that in our motion for a resolution, which will then be an essential point in the negotiations, we assume that the commission will be paid by the client in principle and not, as requested by Mr Schöll's request, both by the client and by the person to whom the apartment is to be communicated. And we are quite convinced that it is justified to take, even in this area, those average conditions on the scale, to the orientation in Austria, which apply to real estate agents in other European countries. Austria is very far ahead, at the disadvantage of those who have to pay the commissions. We therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the European level can be an orientation for Austria. Again: It should not be forgotten that, especially in the case of temporary lease contracts, the sum of the lease contracts is currently limited to three years, these commissions are particularly significant. Of all the positive measures that – this is undisputed – are included in the broker's law, only one area has been taken out: § 6 para. 4nd sentence of the broker's law or the draft law, which subsequently comes to the vote. This is a positive innovation insofar as it is foreseen that, whenever an economic unit exists between the broker and the owner of the respective apartment, there is no commission to be paid. We think that this is very useful and important for those areas where large housing owners establish legal persons, 100 percent daughters, and then to communicate through these apartments. The 100 per cent daughters would be covered by this provision, because this would be an economic link in which commissions are no longer justified. Ladies and gentlemen! Again: We shall vote in favour of this matter, and we are pleased, Mr Fuhrmann, that we will enter into a debate on real estate brokers' regulation, in particular on the level of commissions and on other points. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12255	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12276	Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens too agree to this amendment; from two points of view: Firstly, it contains a very substantial change to the Consumer Protection Act. In summary, in one sentence: The protection of consumers and their rights is guaranteed by this broker law in a way that increases it represents a significant improvement in the current situation. I am particularly pleased that, apart from the government template – Dr. Fuhrmann has already mentioned this – it has still succeeded in ensuring protection for all consumers in the right of withdrawal, because it is not to be seen that someone who wants to acquire an apartment by 3 million schilling or 2.5 million schilling, as originally intended, is less safe than someone who spends 3.5 million schilling. One of the essential points put forward in the Committee's joint amendment is the fact that this right of withdrawal should also apply to unbuilt land dedicated to the purpose of building a single family house. This too is a significant improvement in the sense of consumers. With regard to the real estate agent regulation, which is not included in this law and with regard to its colleague Barmüller – I do not know now whether he has read the motion for a resolution or not... [[Abg. May. Barmüller: Not brought in for negotiations!]] Okay, then you don't have to deal with it either. In my opinion, it would be urgently necessary to push forward this discussion, because, everyone knows, the level of commissions in Austria is above average compared to other countries. In my opinion, it would be a reasonable proposal to say that there is no need for a limit on the side of the payer commission – it can be removed, because why should there be a very clear limit on the part of someone who goes to a broker and says, rent my apartment or my place of business, any regulations and limits – but on the side of the tenant or the customer. Why should we not, for example, take the German regulations in question as an example, where, unfortunately, we have already approached the Federal Republic at the rent level – not at the wage level, not at the income level – and simply say: Two month net rents are enough! What is good for Germany in this case should be quite good for Austria. I would ask Mr Michalek as a representative of the government here, even though no joint resolution and no committee has been established, to act in the interests of the tenants on his colleagues Minister for Economic Affairs Dr. Ditz, because this would be, as it were, the completion of this law, which I consider important and necessary for consumers, but also for a protection instrument for the brokers; therefore, for a protection instrument for the brokers, because hardly any other sector is so different, sometimes completely wrong, and is associated with hardly any other sector as negative as with that of the brokers. We can congratulate ourselves on this law, even though its coming has lasted a little long. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12314	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12335	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this bill, I have fulfilled a promise given here on the occasion of the adoption of the Commercial Representatives Act. As has already been mentioned, it presupposes long-term policy discussions and extensive preparatory work in the working group set up in the Federal Ministry of Justice, in which all the professional groups involved were involved. The aim was to integrate the real estate right in the Austrian legal order only partially and very fragmentedly, clearly and clearly into a law. Even this legal systematic reason justifys this new law. However, the need for this legislative project was also reflected in the very special, ever-increasing importance of the independent broker in an ever-increasing free market. For the functioning of a market, its broad transparency is essential both on the supply side and on the demand side. The broker, who specializes in a particular sector of the economy, provides comprehensive knowledge of these market conditions to the supplier and the consumer/buyer, thus promoting the results of the game of forces on the market for the individual market participant as well as for the economy as a whole. In order to make it easier for the consumer, who cannot have sufficient knowledge of the often complex product designs and legal instruments, to use the services of a broker and eliminate potential business risks for him, the legal situation for the consumer is significantly improved by the present legislative project. I repeat, in part, what has already been said: increased written formal obligation, concrete information obligations in consumer business, but above all also the new right of withdrawal in real estate transactions, which is intended to protect consumers from unwarranted legal statements. If the broker loses essential obligations of interest, his client will in future also be entitled to moderation of the commission claim in addition to any claim for damages due. This broker law also regulates, in particular, the legal conditions of an increasingly important profession: the insurance broker. The regulation of their rights and obligations is a very important legal step. The desire of insurance customers for advice from an independent broker increases in view of the hardly visible variety of insurance products offered today. We are only at the beginning of the EU wide opening of insurance markets, which will lead to an even greater differentiation of the offer. The specific standardisation of the insurance broker's obligations of interest will help to meet the customer's right to expert advice and to provide the best possible insurance protection. The compulsory catalogue of legislation in the future has already been included in the case law and teaching. However, even before today's decision-making, the intention of the formal notice in the series of insurance brokers has greatly increased the awareness of their sensitivity to their potential liability resulting from these obligations and the cover to be provided. It also considers the implementation of an EU recommendation, which through a registration obligation wants to achieve a clear distinction between the dependent and independent insurance mediation – according to our division: the agents and brokers. In my opinion, the Agents' Act is a good proof that clear civil law standards can have a positive preventive effect even before their entry into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12387	Next speaker is Member Dr. Schwimmer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12408	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The deposit of Mr Schweitzer reminded the old caliber of the elephant with his worm-shaped arm and the classification of worms according to Brehm's "animal life", namely by the violent production of a link between the anonymity of the savings books and the broker's law. However, I am still very grateful to him for doing so because it is proof of how little serious the "F" is even argued here and how little economic knowledge is at all available, Mr Scheibner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] Mr Schweitzer, when he is here again, may be able to give a little remedial instruction, because he meant: Because of the discussion, which I did not approve of, about the anonymity of the savings books, the savers would now throw the money into the mouth of the brokers. So: Because the anonymity of the savings book might be at risk – I hope, perhaps only – one would put the money in real estates, where the name is in the base book, public – that is an absolute nonsense, make this clear to Mr Schweitzer once! [[Abg. Scheibner: First the savings books and then the property! This is socialism!]] Secondly, If he were right with his basic thesis, I would almost be in favour of discussing the anonymity of the savings books. Mr Schweitzer assumes that the number of properties and apartments can be increased at any rate and that the money that lies on the savings books could be invested in new apartments and new properties. Unfortunately, that is not true. Unfortunately, there is no such thing, and it was a complete nonsense, which Mr Schweitzer has softened here. But one must be quite grateful to him that he has exposed himself in such a way with his argument. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He also said that the brokers were obliged to thank Mr Schöll because he did not appear very often in the preparation of the law. That probably confused Schweitzer with the already mentioned game with the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Barmüller. ==References== In January 1996, a resolution on the reduction of broker commissions was submitted to the EU's standard level, which took place on 29 June 1996. On 1 March 1996, a letter to Parliament's Directorate withdrew, which reads as follows: We'll allow this to be withdrawn. We thank you for your effort and stay... – This is what Mr Schweitzer has probably meant. However, Members Schöll will be able to explain it to us. [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a kind letter! What do you want?]] However, I would also like to make a brief comment on this discussion: Of course, a discussion must be held with the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs on the necessary brokers' regulation. However, I believe that some comments were premature today because this regulation is a preliminary draft from the ministry. We all know how such designs can look. The very first preliminary draft is mostly based on the previous regulations, and then there are the corresponding corrections and changes. [[Abg. Dr. Fuhrmann: But it has failed, they say it in time as too late!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A few brief remarks on the importance of the Real Estate and Housing Real Estate Act. – Although the Realtor Act regulates all brokers’ contracts – commercial agents, insurance brokers, personal credit intermediaries – it is not to be forgotten that it has arisen from the residential law reform. Together with Mr. Dr. Keimel and Mr. Eder, I met on 21 January. In October 1993, a motion for a resolution, which was also adopted, invited the Minister of Justice to present a government template with provisions of the real estate sector in preparation for the next parliamentary step in the reform of housing law. And in this sense, in my opinion, the broker law is a very positive mosaic of housing law reform. As mentioned above, legal gaps are concluded and, above all, the contracts with real estate agents – from the point of view of consumer protection – are subject to special protection provisions in favour of consumers. The exclusive communication order is reduced by mediation both in terms of its duration and in terms of the commission claim in case of non-state arrival. There is also the right of withdrawal, which is an important aspect. This right will apply if, for example, a contract declaration by the consumer has already been issued on the occasion of the first visit of an apartment, a family house or a property intended for a family home. We know from practice that this can be inconceivable and the situation may look quite different the next morning, namely, if you are no longer afraid that a seemingly favourable offer will be taken away from others. This right of withdrawal is therefore important, and I am also pleased that it has succeeded in anchoring this right of withdrawal in this comprehensive form. I also believe that the new care and information obligations of the broker, in particular that the broker must inform consumers of any future costs, including the expected side costs, that he must inform about close relations with a party or, for example, the home administration – in the event of other damages – I consider it important and important, and I therefore believe that we can accept good conscience in this broker's law.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12487	The next speaker is Mrs Huber. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The step from the draft to today's bill of law on brokers has taken a very long time, and this may also be a sign that this law has been prepared particularly thoroughly. As a consumer speaker, I welcome the fact that the relationship – and this has already happened several times today – is regulated by law between brokers and consumers. It was so far a bit "packed" in the real estate broker's regulation, so as a mixed cult, I would almost have said. I think it is very good that there are civil regulations in this area now. From the point of view of consumer protection, I am pleased that the Committee has succeeded in achieving the improvements already mentioned for consumers, namely that the right of withdrawal is valid for a week, similar to the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act. On this point, I think, there should be generally analogous arrangements for comparable situations. I also think it is right and right that the right of withdrawal should not be subject to an amount limit, because I believe that the amount originally set at 3 million schilling would in fact have been a very arbitrary amount. In fact, I also think it is not understandable from fundamental considerations. Finally, I would also like to call on the Minister for Foreign Affairs to enter into discussions with the Minister for Economic Affairs concerning the Real Estate Property Regulation and the Provisions Regulation to be adopted in this Regulation. In principle, however, I believe that this law is a very good basis for regulating the legal relationship between brokers and customers, but above all it will also strengthen the position of consumers in conflicts.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12547	Mr Schöll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12603	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by referring to the comments made by the honourable Members. Mrs Fekter has rightly said that this law will succeed in reducing mistrust in the market. – I can do that. I hope that this legislation will increase the confidence between consumers and the professions concerned from now on. It has already been mentioned that various brokers are being treated here, but some are not – I quote it as a curious one –: these are the ship brokers, the marriage brokers or the work intermediaries, which one could of course also have built up if one created this for the first time such a comprehensive work, which in the brokers practically goes back to the monarchy. It goes back to the government of Emperor Franz Joseph II when private business agents, court agents and private business firms were already talking about. These transactions continued until 1847 when the concession obligation for this profession was introduced, and until 1925: Inclusion in the trade regulations, 1932: local demand, it fell again, and in the end, the trade regulation brought some regulations for this profession in 1973. Insurance agents are also affected. As I have already said in the Committee on Justice, I cannot entirely agree with what may be done or provided with this profession. We can say it quite clearly: This is about the follow-up commissions. These are, however, too serious and safe, although reference is made to them in a Committee note. They must bear in mind that this profession has to do with overpowered competitors, namely multis, various insurers and, of course, with EU insurers, because they will also enter our market. And it would be good if we were to maintain concrete rules on the follow-up commissions, as they were used to. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would therefore like to give you once again the opportunity to think about whether you should not be helpful to this profession. The various previous speakers have already said quite a lot about the content of the law. It was discussed, among other things, the right of withdrawal, the ceiling in this context and the form of written submission. The Liberal Forum has proposed its own way, but it has not been formulated in the form of an application, so I will not go into it now. However, I would like to explain why this request has been withdrawn from me. I have been trying for months, even last year, to find out that what Mr Fuhrmann rightly criticised today does not happen, namely that the Committee on Justice, in the form of a subcommittee, deals with both broker law and the broker regulation together, is being discussed by experts and experts. Unfortunately, this has been rejected. I took note of this, you can't do anything. That is why my request from the Januaryer whom I have withdrawn has not been made. I also regret that, unfortunately, this other proposal, which I have tabled and which has indeed proved successful in the subcommittee, has never been approved, although a subcommittee was originally planned last autumn. - But that's past. We are glad today that – and I really want to stress this – the Minister of Justice has created an objective climate in these negotiations and discussions in this important and delicate matter. This has been very targeted and has ultimately led to a consensus between all five political groups in the House today. Now to the criticism of what Mr Schweitzer has said here. One thing you have to say: He is not wrong in this regard. Banks, insurance companies, savings banks and also brokers, they all have to do with assets and investors. This is already the common basis, even then – Mr Schweitzer has brought it today for up-to-date reasons – when it comes to banking secrecy and the anonymity of savings books. This will, of course, disturb the market in some form. It is also about the behaviour of the multis in connection with the broker law. I have already mentioned this several times, and I would also like to point out this in the House today: It is not a question of the multis constantly pushing into matters, as now, for example, in the case of the Vienna Dorotheum, which vehemently introduces itself as a real estate agent. The Dorotheum absolutely wants it to be entrusted as the only auction house with the concession for auctioning moving things, properties, dwellings et cetera. And I must strongly oppose such a course! At a time of economic difficulties – and we all know that the Dorotheum is in the possession of the Republic of Austria – it is absurd to prepare the economy with such an activity to be pointless – regardless of the fact that there are enough qualfified and experienced brokers in this profession who would be able to carry out the auctions that are very popular not only in Europe but also around the world, especially in Australia and the USA. [[Complaints with the liberals]] Why is that so? – In these auctions, consumers have the opportunity to visit auction objects in peace and without having – there is no right to withdraw – and then, during auctions, they can try to acquire them completely correctly and cost-effectively. – This has proved successful, and I really don’t see – I really reject it – why the Austrian Dorotheum should be the sole concession bearer. It has also not proved successful – one had to do the last thing in the criticism of the evaluation of Unfortunately, pictures take note that various agents of the Dorotheum were expanded, while other agents were apparently neglected. It also makes no sense if the Vienna Dorotheum suddenly boasts that they make 50 million Schilling sales as real estate agents. For what! This is the Republic of Austria, which appears under other competitive conditions. – Please, just as a comment. To demand only from one side commission will, I believe, require greater preparation on the part of this profession. The whole subject matter must be subject to at least one original vote. I would now like to take up the point that Mrs Stoisits has put forward today, which I think is interesting not to set any limits. – I have to say honestly, I can join him. D’accord! It should not be all too dramatic that Austria is supposed to be very high in terms of commissions. - I don't think so. Mr Fuhrmann has rightly quoted here from a paper of the international brokers' association FIABCI. These are current figures for 1996. At the time I distributed these to the Committee on Justice, because, unfortunately, a paper was used for this request, Mr Schwimmer, which I introduced and withdrawn at the time, which has been accepted and not corrected in the field of the Economic and Social Union since 1990. – I have corrected this through this new paper. We can all confess to this because this is internationally updated. - That's just a note. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that it will be possible, by means of today's broker law, to achieve the necessary mutual trust on the part of consumers and the professions concerned, which will result in a very high acceptance from all sides. In this context, I also welcome the fact that today all the political groups in this delicate and sensitive matter agree.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12728	The next speaker is Dr. Maitz, Member of Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12750	Mr President. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen! I refer directly to Mr Schöll's statements on the subject and would like to explain to him and to you all why we cannot agree to this amendment, which is correct at an intermediate stage of the debate and which has been discussed in detail. We from the People's Party have also assumed the principle of as much consumer protection as is necessary, but also as much freedom of contract as possible in the special provisions for insurance brokers. Because the insurance contract has not ended with the one-time exchange of performance and consideration, but an insurance contract usually covers many years. The insurance broker assumes an intermediary and care function for many years, and this intermediary and care function also results in a final and a follow-up commission. These two commissions have two different objectives, and that is why the doubts raised by Mr Schöll in the meantime must also be dropped. Because the Quasi merger of these two commissions into a commission due at the beginning of the insurance contract would undoubtedly have adversely affected the bond between brokers and customers: After the collection of this commission, at the beginning of the contract, the insurance broker would no longer have to work for his policyholder or insurer, and that is not our goal. The care relationship should be maintained intensively. That is why the law-standardized, reasonably limited contract-making between policy-makers and insurance brokers is a good compromise for both sides, especially for consumers, i.e. the policyholder, as this provides the greatest guarantee of good care. A law cannot and must not replace individual contracts. We also want to influence the EU directive in this direction. Because contract design must be primarily a matter for the contractual partners – and remain as well. Again, the principle applies: as much consumer protection as necessary, as much freedom of contract as possible. – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12792	I would like to say later that the amendment, which has been read by Mr Schöll, has been sufficiently supported and is included in the negotiations. The next speech is from Mrs Bures. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12816	Mr President. Federal Minister! The harmonisation of broker's rights in a law is to be welcomed, because it naturally closes a legal gap and also creates general standards applicable to all groups of brokers. I would like to focus very briefly on the most important group within the civil brokers, namely the group of real estate agents. There is a considerable imbalance in the level of information, but also in the market situation, between real estate agents and those seeking housing. I know this problem, which for those seeking housing is linked to a lot of uncertainty and lack of confidence in this profession, also very well because of my activity within the tenants' association. I believe that today's legislation will be a clear improvement in the legal status of those seeking housing as consumers, in their relationship with real estate agents, through the field of due diligence and the obligation to provide information to the potential tenant on the side, but also through the right of withdrawal on the other side. We all know the typical practices in real estate transactions, which are particularly marked by the fact that real estate agents agree to visit dates to which several applicants are invited at the same time, and in this situation they are urged to submit an offer very quickly, without being able to really learn about the advantages and disadvantages of this rental property. I therefore think that the proposed regulation, namely the extension of a seven-day right of withdrawal, in order to prevent this risk of overrun, which tenants are exposed to on a daily basis, is very positive. The second point I would like to make is that, of course, it is related to the broker's law, but not specifically to the sector, the broker's regulation. Mr Schöll has, as it were, regretted that this could not be discussed in one. . I think it is very good because of these positive measures in the broker's law that we adopt this law and consider it rather as a delaying tactic to wait for the regulation. As far as the proposal for a real estate agent regulation is concerned, I would like to say that, unlike Mr Schöll, who works with strange lists here, there is nowhere to be as high broker commissions in Europe as is the case in Austria. This list, which he spoke about and which is supposed to be internationally recognized, shows commission volumes, but assumes that it is commissions to be paid by the owners or owners. Our aim is to achieve a clear limitation of commissions in the area of housing seekers, the future tenants. This list is not an adequate document and does not correspond to the facts. In Vienna, the broker commission is included in an average gross rent of 9 000 S, operating costs and VAT, 27 000 S. In Helsinki the average commission is around 8 000 S, and in Zurich about 6 000 S. These figures show that the list mentioned above is incorrect. In this context, I would like to stress that this draft - and I am referring specifically to Mr Schwimmer - which again provides for broker commissions of three gross monthly rents would not lead us to a reduction in these commissions. He even goes one step further: He speaks of minimum commissions of 8,000 p. In the area of substandard apartments, this would be a hundred per cent increase, even at the present stage. For this reason, we do not agree with the regulation in this form. In conclusion: This legislative proposal closes a legal gap and contains many positive and consumer-friendly provisions.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12878	I call Mr Graf. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12899	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you on behalf of our group for the fact that you are obviously the only minister who is able to reach a consensus in his field. Thank you once again from the speaker's desk for your effort in this regard. However, there are some points which I believe need clarification. The core of the novelle or the law is certainly well meant, but sometimes something has been shot. I believe that consumer protection should also have certain limits. Finally, there is also the defendable broker, even though this may cause some laughter. Also, a broker should not be outside all legal possibilities. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e12981	The amendment, drawn up by Mr Graf, is sufficiently supported and will be included in the negotiations. There is no more word message for this. – The debate is closed. Is the rapporteur asking for a conclusion? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 87 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Meischberger and comrades submitted an amendment. Mr Schöll and Mr Comrades have also tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members Schöll and comrades have submitted an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 4 into Article I(30). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are here for a similar sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. There is no need to vote on the amendment to the paragraph description requested. In addition, Members of the European Parliament have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Meischberger I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote is therefore subject to Rule I(6). 4 and Article II, Section 30a and 30b, as amended by the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a positive sign. . The above provisions have been adopted by a majority as amended by the Committee's report. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have voted in favour of it to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft at third reading to give an appropriate sign. The draft was adopted unanimously at third reading. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 87 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This too has been unanimously adopted. 3rd. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (34 of the Supplements): Convention on the Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, concluded in Lugano on 16 June. September 1988, including Protocols and Declarations and Declaration by the Republic of Austria (88 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13074	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item: Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (34 of the Supplements): Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters and Protocols and Declarations and Declaration of the Republic of Austria (88 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mrs Rosemarie Bauer. I ask her to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13095	Mr President. I will return the report on the item on the agenda 3. At its meeting on 27 October the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights adopted the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Negotiating in March 1996, and following its negotiations, the National Council requested that: 1. The conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention on the Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, concluded in Lugano on 16 June. It was approved on 1 September 1988, together with protocols and declarations, as well as a declaration by the Republic of Austria (34 of the Supplements). 2. In accordance with Article 49(l)(c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 49(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 B-VG has to be issued in Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Icelandic, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish by the Federal Ministry of Justice. Mr President. In the event that word is made, I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13125	I would like to thank the rapporteur for her statement. There's a word message. Mrs Wurm has spoken. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor. Maximum speaking time: 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13150	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! ==References== In Lugano, the Convention on the Jurisdiction and Enforcement of Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters, in short Lugano Convention, was concluded in September 1988 between the EU Member States and the EFTA States. It is largely in line with the European Convention on Jurisdiction and Enforcement, which was concluded in 1968, in Brussels in short, and is therefore also referred to as the parallel Convention. The Lugano Convention is already in force between 14 European States. In the following, I give a rough overview of the basic rules of this Convention. The Lugano Convention will not only govern the recognition and enforcement of foreign decisions but also the international competence of the Contracting States. In this respect, there is a direct competence in contrast to the indirect competence common in previous bilateral enforcement agreements, which must only be considered as a mere rule of assessment at the stage of recognition and enforcement in the second State. The Lugano Convention must therefore already be applied in the recognition process and, within its scope, replaces national jurisdiction, i.e. the rule of law, as well as bilateral enforcement agreements, provided that they do not have a specific further scope. The objective scope of the LGF includes, in accordance with Article 1(1) thereof, the scope of the LGV. 1 without regard to the nature of jurisdiction – whether commercial or labour jurisdiction, disputed or out of dispute – all civil and commercial matters. However, it does not cover the situation of persons, the matrimonial property law, inheritance law, insolvency proceedings, social security and arbitration. It is also necessary for the application of this provision that the defendant party, including companies or legal persons, is resident or established in the territory of a Contracting State. If the defendant lives outside a Contracting State, the international jurisdiction of the respective Contracting State shall be determined by its own autonomous laws. Except for those cases, only the cases of exclusive competence under Article 16 of the basic Regulation. The special responsibilities of the second section justify electoral courts outside the State of residence. They regulate both international and local competence. It should be noted that the jurisdiction of the place of performance, the place of jurisdiction for maintenance, the court of jurisdiction for court proceedings, the jurisdiction of the Court of Adhesive Cases and the jurisdiction of the place of establishment. Article 6 of the Convention contains a catalogue of electoral courts, which allow for actions to be brought before a court on a case-by-case basis in order to avoid conflicting decisions. In this context, it should be noted that the jurisdiction of the disputed party, the jurisdiction of the guarantee and intervention action, the jurisdiction of the opposition and the jurisdiction of the real estate business. Special protection provisions are laid down in Article 7 and the following for policyholders, in Article 13 and the following for consumers and in Article 5(1). 1 second sentence and Article 17(1) 5 for workers. It should also be noted that there is a need for special needs for workers to come to their right to take initiatives at EU level beyond the current Convention, as well as for the European Trade Union Confederation to begin negotiations with EFTA States as soon as possible, with the aim of bringing the rules of competence of the Lugano Convention into line with the Entrepreneurship Directive in order to enable a posted worker to complain to the employer on equal terms both in the employment state and in his home country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Article 17 gives the parties of which at least one is resident in a Contracting State the opportunity to conclude agreements on jurisdiction. However, jurisdiction agreements are ineffective if they violate the protection provisions of insurance and consumer matters – or if there is a compulsory jurisdiction. In the case of individual contracts of employment, a jurisdiction agreement may only be made after the dispute has arisen. Title III of the Convention finally regulates the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions, Title IV, those of public documents and procedural comparisons. In order to ensure a uniform interpretation of the Treaty, the EFTA States, in Protocol No. 2 on the LGF, to respect the case law of the ECJ and the case law of the Contracting States of the ECHR. On the other hand, the Contracting States of the Brussels Convention must observe the jurisdiction of the EFTA High Courts. Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see from my remarks, this legal matter is very complicated and bulky and will provide a very inexhaustible source of scientific disputes and practical application in the implementation of more than a dozen States involved. Despite these expected initial difficulties, the priority must be to create a single legal area for jurisdiction and enforcement in civil and commercial matters in an already realized economic area in which the four fundamental freedoms apply. This area of law, which, in addition to the EU, includes the EFTA States and which also opens up the possibility of participating in the reform states, separates Austria from many bilateral agreements, which are also very complex and complex in both case law and application. Ladies and gentlemen! In confidence that, after ratification of this Convention, the implementation of legislation in Europe for consumers and economic operators will become easier and more efficient, the Socialist Group agrees with this Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13222	There is no more word message. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the Committee's request to give approval to the conclusion of the present State Treaty, the Protocols and Declarations and the Declaration of the Republic of Austria in 34 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign of approval. – The approval was granted unanimously. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Justice, within the meaning of Article 49. 2 Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the embodiment of this contract must be carried out in Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Icelandic, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish by means of a requirement in the Federal Ministry of Justice. Those ladies and gentlemen who are for this, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This too has been unanimously adopted. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (85 of the Supplements): Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Organization in implementation of Article III(1) and (4) of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and Protocol (108 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13277	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item: Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (85 of the Supplements): Agreement between Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, the Italian Republic, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency in implementation of Article III(1) and (4) of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and Protocol (108 of the Supplements). The rapporteur is Mrs Jäger. I ask her to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13299	Mr President. I will return the report on item 4 on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the protocol. As a member of the Nuclear Locking Treaty, Austria is obliged, in accordance with Article III Z 1, to accept the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency over its nuclear material and relevant nuclear activities. With Austria's accession to the European Union, part of Austria's security control tasks have been transferred to the Luxembourg EURATOM security control authority and will be transferred by it in accordance with Regulation No. 3227/76. At its meeting on 24 April, the Foreign Policy Committee adopted the State Treaty which is contrary to this Treaty. ==References====External links== At the time of the vote, it was unanimously decided to recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of this State Treaty. In the present case, the Foreign Policy Committee shall keep the adoption of a special federal law in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 2 B-VG for the fulfilment of the State Treaty. As a result of its deliberations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the National Council: 1. The conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency in implementation of Article III(1) and (4) of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and Protocol (85 of the Supplements) is hereby approved. 2. In accordance with Art. Paragraph 49 2 B-VG is to be notified to this State Treaty by the fact that the Convention is open to public consultation with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs in all authentic languages. Mr President. I would ask you to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13347	Thank you very much, rapporteur. Mr Wurmitzer spoke. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13371	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Of course, the Austrian People's Party will agree to a treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in Europe and the world. It is the countries Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria which conclude this agreement. But I am right to ask the question: Where are other countries of Europe in this regard? Where are France, Great Britain, Russia, where Ukraine? And outside Europe, the question is: Where are the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, Iran, India and so on? In my view, this treaty is under three premises, which show the whole problem of a treaty among nations. The first premise is: What was real once remains possible forever. – This sentence comes from the teacher of the philosophers, from Baruch Spinoza, and he has since the 16th century. Since the US's first nuclear bomb detonated on July 1, 1945, it has also been absolutely valid in this field. In the period between 1945 and 1982, more than 900 nuclear warheads were inflamed. The hope that people would forget the knowledge of the manufacture of nuclear weapons is an absolutely unfounded and a very deceptive one. The use of humans was also tested in 1945. Since these trials, the damocles have burdened the atomic threat over all humanity. The second premise is: Nuclear weapons are high-level weapons. Nuclear weapons mean world power – and that was fully aware of the inventors of the first nuclear bomb in the USA from the beginning. There is no world power without nuclear weapons today, if you look closely at it. There are a number of states that want to upgrade atomicly or are already developing their first nuclear weapons. A particularly bad state occurs when political or economic changes make a state system unstable and the care of these weapons is no longer guaranteed to the extent that corresponds to their danger. Third Premise: The so-called peaceful use of nuclear energy provides new raw material for nuclear weapons every day. The plutonium produced in nuclear reactors is capable of forming critical mass for nuclear weapons, and as long as nuclear reactors are in operation, the construction material for nuclear weapons does not go out. If an atomic milestone, as it were, makes itself independent and withdraws from the laws of control, as in the case of Chernobyl, then a nuclear power plant itself becomes an atomic weapon. In addition, the high risks come from harmful miles, from poorly maintained miles and from miles whose funding is in question from the outset. It is significant that, according to a survey presented today by our Environment Minister, apart from Maria Rauch-Kallat, 90 percent of the Austrians are afraid of the nuclear installations in our neighborhood, for example in Mochovce, in Bohunice, but also in Krško. We therefore call for nuclear weapons to be produced and passed on only under the strictest controls. We must also be able to monitor and track the flow of materials precisely in connection with nuclear energy, even if we are aware that complete control is not at all possible in this matter. There are countries which, although joining international agreements, do not adhere to them, and there are countries which do not, from the outset, require such agreements, because they are not prepared to comply with these provisions and contractual agreements. Therefore, there can only be one goal for us – admittedly a very high one –: It should be a self-restriction of mankind as a whole to abandon nuclear weapons at all and also to replace the peaceful use of nuclear energy with other, better forms of energy. [[Abg. Wabl: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13412	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore entering into the voting procedure and we are voting on the Committee's request to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty, together with the Protocol, in 85 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, to decide that the procurement of the contract must be carried out in all authentic languages by means of public consultation at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask once again those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. 5. Point Government template: Declaration on the resignation of the Republic Austria of the International Sugar Convention 1992 (55 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13470	We now come to item 5 of the agenda: Government template: Declaration on the resignation of the Republic of Austria by the 1992 International Sugar Convention (55 of the Supplements). The preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure. No one is reported in the word. In accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall therefore vote on the approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty in 55 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted with a single vote. 6. Point Government template: Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Tunisian Republic, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocols and Declarations (77 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13519	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. Government template: Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an Association between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Tunisian Republic, of the other part, and Annexes, Protocols and Declarations (77 of the Supplements). The preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure. There are no words. We are therefore entering the voting procedure. The subject-matter is the approval of the conclusion of the State Treaty and its Annexes, Protocols and Declarations in 77 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted with a single vote. We shall now proceed to the vote, in accordance with Rule 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act, to decide that the procurement of the contract must be carried out in all authentic languages by means of public consultation at the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted with a single vote. 7. Point First reading of Mr MMag's motion for a resolution 109/A. Dr. Madeleine Petrovicund Comrades concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Receipts of the Supreme Institutions and the Incompatibilities Act
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13583	We therefore come to item 7 of the agenda, at the first reading of the 109/A motion by Dr Petrovic and comrades concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Law on the Relations of the Supreme Institutions and the Incompatibilities Act. We are going into the debate. The word first receives the applicant. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13607	Mr President. High house! I would have hoped that many members of the Federal Government will also be present during this debate. Unfortunately, this is not the case, but I think it is a very important request, and I would ask you, although this is the last item on the agenda, to follow this request here with some attention, or then to discuss this request very seriously, in the debates that are coming to us. I believe that, unlike the political parties, the National Council still has a very high degree of credibility in the population. And we should fight for that to continue. The people appreciate Parliament, the honourable Members appreciate the House and wish that a proper work be done here. This also has to do with how this work is rewarded, how this work is rewarded. I believe that it is absolutely necessary for mandates to have a proper, fair relationship for their work here in this House. Whoever takes the work seriously as a national councillor or as a national councillor knows that this is a job that does not rest even on Sundays and holidays, which reaches into the evening hours, and who knows that this really means full use. I therefore believe that a wage such as in middle management is absolutely necessary for this profession. But something doesn't matter: that one gives up here the illusion that it is possible to practice the profession – and this is a profession – as a people's representative or a people's representative and at the same time another full profession. This is simply not possible, and we should finally take steps in this direction. There are a number of people here who work somewhere in a ministry as an official or a civil servant who work in a chamber; actually, professions that represent a service function that requires full attention. And this is not possible next to a mandate in the National Council. We should represent the interests of the people here in the National Council, we should represent the citizens' initiatives, we should represent the social initiatives, we should represent the many professional groups, and we should really do this with passion and with all our commitment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And no one, Mrs Steibl, can tell me that it is possible for me to agree a job that will certainly take more than 40 hours a week with a job in a ministry, in a chamber or elsewhere. It's just not fair! If you are now based on a regulation which, in particular, allows members of the government parties to continue to cash their official salary, then, I believe, this scheme is double unfair. It is not possible to do more than a full-time job. In addition, people's representatives or representatives are also an honor. We are elected to do so, and we have a mandate from the population. We're not here as lobbyists of any chamber, any ministry, any company. But it should be possible to return to a "normal" profession. That is why we also want, with our request, that there be management solutions, not only for the public service, but also for the private sector. It should be possible to be a Member of the House for four, eight, twelve years and then return to a civil job. But then, afterwards, and not parallel! That is not possible, it is an eye-catching, and that also brings us this negative image, which unfortunately is already taking place for the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens' request deals with all these points. We want us to be national councils first – and only one! – Getting salary, we want Members to join this House one – and only one! - Get a pension. This can be a well-paid job. I do not want to participate in these games where Members' references are always licensed downwards. It should be possible to be Members or Members of this House without being big-scale owners. That must be possible! But with this income, it should also have been used. That means no double jobs, no double pensions! We also demand that the truth be finally presented to the people in respect of the donation of the party. It is not a shame to give donations to political parties, it is very legitimate also to drive forward political interests with money, but because it is not a shame, one can still reveal it. We also want to create glass party funds with our request. We want to know exactly the income and wealth relationships of the members of this House, but also of the parties as a whole: The parties should disclose how they finance themselves, who are those who dispute their resources, and it should be clear whether there are any such dependencies. I think this is fair and correct. [[Several ÖVP delegates in the back ranks discuss rather loud with each other.]] That is, in total, this request aims to finally recognise a profession – the profession as a national representative and a national representative. Our request is also completely consistent in that he – and you may be interested in it despite your tushiness – contains a clear rejection of party taxes. We want Members to be paid fairly for doing their job here as the main professional job with all the seriousness that they are representatives of the people, and we want the parties to have no secrets as regards their provision of resources, but to reveal it to the people. In the context of a special meeting on unemployment, it is perhaps important to remember that there are now thousands of people in Austria who really do not know how to fight their livelihood in the next few months, thousands of people who are unemployed or long-term unemployed. The vast majority of them are waiting urgently to get a job again, finally to be re-established in the social system. All of us here – all of us sitting here – are clearly privileged. We have a safe income here – a very high income – and many of us are at the same time insured in ministries, in chambers, in other professions, and I therefore believe that it would be a minimum of solidarity if we decided here today to exercise true solidarity with these unemployed people. Ladies and gentlemen! In practice, we are also prepared to think about our own pay schemes, and I believe that it would be a really reasonable principle to have a salary, a pension, not double and triple. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13704	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member. 9 minutes remaining speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13725	High house! We must take this request seriously, just as we have to take all these requests seriously. They also provide the opportunity for a very deep discussion to be held here. I cannot share this professional policy image developed by Mr Petrovic before. It reminds a little of the old Greek plenary, and this goes beyond reality, because we must try to ensure that there are transparent interests, that lobbyism is transparent, and, of course, Parliament is the intersection of various – and also more persistent – interests. But what is particularly disturbing to me – this is just the first reading now – is the passus, which formally forbids party and club taxes. I believe that this is one thing that everyone should decide for himself. The parties should decide for themselves that the club should decide for itself. If you don't want to give anything to the choir master, then this is your thing if the choir master doesn't want to give you anything, that's his thing; but you shouldn't transfer the problem that the greens have here. I mean, that's something that's really worrying. All in all, the request must be taken seriously to discuss. That is exactly what we will do in the future, just as we have done so up to now, and how we have been trying, for years and a long time, to ask ourselves this question with proposals and changes.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13760	Mr Dr. Khol is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13782	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know how many requests have been made to me in my 13-year-old Parliamentary history, and I certainly do not give the illusion that we can solve the problem of political relations for all those involved in this House, outside the House. This problem is insoluble! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As long as the principle exists in Austria, anyone who deserves more than I do has an undeserved privilege, as long as we are likely to be unable to achieve a well-performance political reward under general applause. We can only make an effort – whoever strives honestly, we can redeem it, I think, in the "faust" – to get closer. And if we try to achieve approximations, I see many interesting indications in the Greens' request, but I also see very interesting indications in the request of the Liberals from the last legislative period, which I believe is one of the most thorough applications in the area of political remuneration in this House, and I also see much in the request of Peter, in other words in the Liberal Forum's request, which is further. What we are talking about is that we, as government parties, have committed ourselves to putting forward, within one year of the Government Declaration, approaches to deal with this problem, the first approach being that we are trying to make the right to pay of politicians, so to speak, the order of remuneration of politicians, transparent and a pyramid – as we have mentioned in the working title – to represent the political relationship at the head of the Federal President and on whose basis the mayors and their comparable public mandates stand. That is, we want to put things in relation with each other. We are also convinced that we have to involve the self-government or the state economy in this public salary pyramid. What matters to us is that we no longer achieve unemployment incomes. The true privilege of today is not the height of the reference, for here you can check performance, but the true privilege of today's days is that someone gets references for whom he does not work. I believe that we must make this privilege clear with regard to the references we have today in the political field. I also believe that we need action in the field of public service. There is here the Vorarlberger model of the Stechuhr, i.e. it is paid as much as the public servant also does. [[Abg. Wabl: This is pure hypocrisy!]] This model is also assessed differently. I'm just saying, There are positive effects, but there are also negative. I believe that we must take a serious look at this problem, because the principle should apply here, too, that there is no unemployment income. Mrs Petrovic! But one thing I'd like to ask myself out. The question of the role of MEPs in the National Council is different. One understands her office as a full-time job. Committee chairman, club members, of course, are fully occupied here. But besides that, I really don't want to isolate those who do something special or almost criminal about a profession. I know a lot of Members in most political groups who, in addition to their Members' work, which they do perfectly, also fill up a profession. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and SPÖ as well as on the liberals.]] Just like everywhere, we should open options here and honor them according to the options: one and the other, but do not play out against one another. I believe that here in this House there are many between 160 and 180 working days a year, but some have over 250. That's just how you're used. I believe that discrimination is not only the treatment of the same thing but also the treatment of inequalities. I believe that we not only want to have the professional politician sitting here in this House, but we need women and men in this House who are alive, who are also familiar with work in their business, work in the public service, and not just talking about the color of the blind. [[General condolences.]] Let me conclude. We are trying to develop a pyramid according to the principles I have explained here: performance-oriented, transparent, no unemployed income, no pyramid, i.e.: References should be comparable in similar things, there should be no outsiders in one way or another, and the public economy should also be included. I believe that the proposals made by the Greens, the Liberals and the Liberals provide evidence that we will have a good discussion in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13837	I call Mr Magistrate. Stadler. Please, honourable Member. 7 minutes remaining speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13859	Mr President. High house! I would like to say to Mr Khol that he has already experienced a number of requests on this subject in the House. A significant number of these are from the spring and the factory of ideas of the liberals. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, political pressure has only so far been large enough in two federal states that we have really done a lot in this regard. I should just like to remind you that, for example, the pressure of the liberals in Upper Austria abolished the political pensions, that the pressure of the liberals in Vorarlberg was the subject of a corresponding regulation, which is moving towards Stechuhr in its direction. But these are rules which, of course, are not quite satisfactory. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I share your view that we will never find a solution here that will satisfy everyone completely, especially those who would like to be privileged riders in the future. But we will find a solution that we will at least find before the citizens, before us. Voters can be represented, especially in times when a load package takes them incredibly deep into their pockets and imposes irrespicable loads. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Therefore, as the cornerstone of our discussion on "remunerations, settlements and pensions", we have also called for a performance-oriented, performance-related salary, the appropriateness of remunerations, the prevention of unjustified double remunerations, the abolition of settlements, the abolition of parliamentary pensions and the integration into the ASVG. Mr Khol! The crucial thing is that we are now, for example, facing the background of the specific loads – at the very moment! – have provided for a 30 percent reduction in political relations in our proposal, which was discussed here in the House a few months ago and unfortunately also rejected with the votes of the Austrian People's Party. However, he was also brought back as an independent initiative proposal in the House, so he continues to debate. In the future, we also want to orient the level of performance relative to the level of references to how the "Company Austria" as a whole is going. That means: Economic key data – including unemployment, which includes debt, which includes some other economic scale – should be relevant to whether the leaders, the boss of this "Austrian enterprise", can or may not succeed accordingly in their salary. Today, when I read in a newspaper distributed here in the house that a "Company Cheops" is being debated within the government coalition, I'm having fun because one probably didn't happen to come to this Egyptian Pharaoh: The question is always about the meat pots, the treatises and the pensions. We will therefore ensure, especially in times of serious burden to the citizen, that these "fleshheads of Egypt" do not become a self-service shop for politicians in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens' request is certainly to be supported from the point of view. The Greens' request, however, contains a number of points that make it difficult for us to carry them in full content, such as the question of the choice of politicians, who are then not even allowed to exercise a civil profession at all – a question that must be seen separately from that, whether there are officials, public officials as politicians who receive 75 percent of their jobs, but not even the achievement – not even 75 percent – in their profession. These are things you need to regulate. But this must not be so far as a colleague, such as Mrs Primaria Dr. Povisyl, who is an excellent Member, but also an excellent physician, can no longer exercise her profession in the future. This would not contribute to the quality collection and improvement in a parliament, but would – quite the contrary! – lead to a reduction in quality if only more curated, main-professional, exempt politicians in our Republic would have the say. Ladies and gentlemen! That would be a misdevelopment! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] This would be a misdevelopment, as is clearly seen by the Greens in the field of collective agreements. Minister One requires a collective agreement and a minimum wage for all illegals in Austria, the Greens demand how I take this away from the "standard" today, a collective contract minimum wage and a pension for all prisoners in Austria! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the wrong access! We must take care – and this is what we have done today, as I believe, and rightly and up to now – of the fact that those people who are not in detention have at least one job outside and that the collective agreement is preserved there – up to the apprentices, where the public sector is not even respected for the apprentices of the collective agreement, before we discuss whether we are giving to those who have become criminal in our Republic a pension that they have become criminal. This is the wrong way, as it would be the wrong way to make a general wage distribution for everyone, to give everyone a basic wage, as the boss of the so-called Liberal Forum suggested a few days ago quite scurry.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13950	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Peter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e13971	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not quite clear to me what basic wage debate has to do with political fees, but please, you keep mixing everything in a big pot again and again. I would like to congratulate the Green Group for having spoken shortly before the conclusion of the resolution with its own proposal on the reference law. Mrs Petrovic! This request is now available, you have already sold it medially, we will, of course, also evaluate it accordingly. I could now give you my speech on 17 November. I have already spoken on this subject in April, where I have made clear the liberal position which has been attached since June 1995. You're in the discussion now. I warmly welcome you in the context of the five and hope that this question will soon be seriously discussed. This request by the Greens is too far away from me personally. I have no understanding at all of why you want to stick to biennial jumps, so that a Member of Parliament deserves all the more, the thicker the scrolls on his popo, because he's been sitting in there for so long. I think that's abstrus! I also do not understand your attitude on club charges. The fact that you are opposed to party charges is clear, but I do not understand that you are against club charges. Every club is free to waive its costs on Members in solidarity. I also don't understand why you don't remove yourself from the pay-as-you-go and continue to work with depositors and these things. Why don't you just confess to a politician as a freelancer who gets a very decent fee and has to pay all his expenses. – The distance allowances – I agree with you – will be necessary for fairness reasons. Something that you have obviously not thought enough about is what it means for private businesses to send a politician or a politician with all the social claims that continue despite the leave of the Carenz, in Karenz, who can then be terminated after four weeks, as you suggest, but after all: Then the notice periods begin to run. That is to say, the woman or the man, who then returns to the holding after five, ten, 15 years, will be there for another six, eight months during the long notice periods of employees, which a company can cost a few hundred thousand schillings up to the order of 1 million schillings – apart from settlement claims. Again: I welcome the fact that you made this proposal. We are not going to discuss this today, but I invite all the parties to put themselves together in this matter soon, so that we can find a fair and transparent payment scheme for politicians. And I hope that we have the courage to become a freelancer. - It would be nice.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14023	Mr Wabl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14044	Mr President. - No minister! – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I begin with Mr Peter, who said that we should have brought something to the conclusion of the resolution. I would just like to remind you of the following: In 1988, we Greens submitted our first request. [[Abg. May. Peter: I wasn't there yet!]] – I know you weren’t there yet, you heard another party. [[Abg. May. Peter: Not even that!]] Not even that? But I can remember that you were sitting there somewhere over there and have also voted against the disclosure of the party donations. I can still remember this precisely because I wondered why you are against glass checkouts, Mr Peter. But then you were not allowed to get up. I know that the regime was a little more stringent, and Mrs. Liberale's head is a little easier. [[Abg. May. Trattner: This is a great mistake!]] Is that a big mistake? – I don’t know Mrs. Heide Schmidt so well, but I suppose, at the hard look of Brother Haider in his current gap, that the rules of the order in the F movement are even more stringent. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mrs Heide Schmidt does not at least make clothing regulations and other haircuts. [[Abg. May. Stadler: A proper haircut wouldn't be bad!]] Oh, that would be the end of my political career for me. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Stadler argued very correctly in connection with our request, but could not go along with the possibility of a second profession. – However, our request does not state that a second job is not possible, that is of course in any business... [[Intercession with the liberals.]] Mrs Petrovic referred essentially to those politicians who, at the same time, were still serving in the legislative or executive. – We have here – I don’t want to say: the example of hypocrisy, that would be the wrong expression, that would be a bit too hard, and I don’t want to break this solemn mood here, but that with the stech clock, that was a bribe. There are some who practice this and believe that this is the cleanest and most decent solution, however, not to mention that one can quite press the Stech clock, then go into office and do his political business instead of doing his official business. It should be said quite openly and honestly once. I think Mr Cap is a bit more honest. He knows that a solution here is very, very difficult, but basically one can find solutions, but quite certain professions simply exclude each other. Mr Khol! Not only in the field of a clubman and a clubwoman, there is an incompatibility with another profession, but also in other areas. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the delicate point that has been discussed so often in recent times. Mr Amon and Mr Maitz will remember the hustle and bustle that suddenly broke out in the Styria in connection with the carnations. In 1986, when I made my first press conference in connection with my unemployed income as a teacher, I said I deserve very much as a politician. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] Mr Schwarzenberger, we can still talk about this. The Styrian Constitutional Service has now issued an opinion confirming my attitude, but it is now about something quite different. At the time, I asked the government parties to change that. 1986 already! That's nine years ago. Now I've done this again, and in the Styria it was fertile now. There have suddenly appeared from various directions by the Styria MPs who have said: I don't want to take the salary anymore, I want to have a job somewhere. There was an attempt to create jobs. Of course, in very prominent cases one has not known what to do. Examples: Flecker and Strenitzer. You had to open a desk somewhere, it wasn't that easy. First, one had to go somewhere else, so that these politicians could go back to their profession. What they're doing there, I don't want to look at that more closely now, but: There's nothing going to help a stech clock either. But the good thing was that suddenly three or four representatives of the ÖVP said they wanted to go back to work so that they could get their salary properly. – Of course, then, the Styrian state government finds a job again for these nice people from the ÖVP. That's not a problem. Then, too, there was a freeman, to the surprise of many. He said: I was a financier, I have a reference that I naturally donate – to keep it, he cannot afford, even in the FPÖ. But that's where they said: No, I can't. – It was clear to me again what new game began. Just under the wonderful title: There must be no professional ban! That, of course, all politicians must continue to exercise their occupations and continue to sit in their offices. And for those who happen to belong to the ÖVP or SPÖ who happen to belong to a government party, one will also find a place to open a desk. I guess that's gonna be possible. And then we'll give him another stech clock, just for the parties who're supposed to come and see that. He can then explain to them: I always get in there when I go in and go out, and only that way is reckoned. And if there is less going on in Parliament, then I can plug more and earn much more. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not correct, this is a lazy egg, which is obviously to be hatched here, but which is not acceptable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Stadler! To your primary doctor: I think that if, in her profession in which she is active, the control is possible and works properly, which ensures that she is fully engaged in her profession, then she must take up another profession from me. [[Abg. May. Stadler: You can take poison on it! It's a private hospital!]] If she believes she can work 24 hours a day, she should do it. But where we control ourselves more or less where political influence is possible, it will be problematic. This is the problem, and we want to avoid it. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap has said that party tax and club tax, that is a private matter, similar to Mr Peter. You only spoke of club tax, because the party tax has been abolished by you liberals. You are, I believe, the best-earning Members at all. In the Green Group, party tax is not a party tax, but there is a public initiative fund. In the SPÖ it is a party tax, since one has always opted for this resolute kind of party tax. I don't know that very well with the other parties. However, it should be the case with the EIA, because they always cry. There has been a wonderful story in a committee room in which Members have assembled. A new Member of the Greens has been sitting there with Members of other parties, with a few colleagues from here, and they have said: Look, dear students, I'm actually getting only 22,000 p.m. I have to pay party tax and financepocals, because I have to donate there, I have to donate club tax, I have to pay district taxes. I therefore remain only 22 000 p. The next one came and said: I've only got 27 000 S salary. The students were all completely confused. – And then a new Member of Parliament, the Gföhler, gets into his bag, takes out his wage bill and says: You stupid G’s, something must have gone wrong! However, I have 53 000 S. Something's wrong. This must not continue, Mr Peter. You can do what you want with your money, but what is now party tax is not voluntaryly paid, but it will be reduced by obligation. Transparency is the only opportunity in the political debate, transparency also in the party donations, whether they come from the MEPs or from companies and industrial enterprises. As always, our proposal is excellent, with a few marks. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I wish you a nice evening. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14177	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is therefore closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution, which has just been dealt with, 109/A, to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_1996-05-07-020-XX-NRSITZ-00020_d7e14212	I am still announcing that in today's sitting, the self-employed applications were submitted 180/A to 191/A. Questions 554/J to 586/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which serves business communications and allocations, I call for 20.54 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The sitting is closed.
