ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! It's 10 a.m. Please, take your seats! Let's start the 5th November session of the Saeima. Today there is one question on the agenda – the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Cabinet of Ministers”. Name of the candidate for the post of Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the Latvian folk song: “The eyes of the work were afraid, the Rokas work was not afraid, the Rokas work was not afraid, the Knowledge was made.” Today I offer you a new Cabinet of Ministers - an experienced team with the confidence of the voters. It is ready to move on to the work that we have ranked in 183 paragraphs of the Government Declaration for four years - from the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union to the centenary of Latvia. Party “UNITY”, the Union of Greens/Farmers and the national association “All for Latvia!” -‘Fatherland and Freedom/LNG’ has agreed to establish a government whose activities will be based on continuity, continuing the work undertaken by the previous government. The work will be based on the principles of economic growth, fiscal responsibility, macroeconomic stability, sustainability and social solidarity, as well as cross-sectoral cooperation, through regular dialogue with social partners, civil society and local authorities. I'm proud of my responsibility. I've never said it's easy. The tasks set out in the Government Declaration show this. We have discussed a lot of things in the form of government, but we have been able to agree on the most important thing: this is an advantage when partners are tested and acquainted with difficulties. We will continue on the basis of the balanced, sustainable and socially discussed development directions of Latvia defined in the National Development Plan 2014-2020 and in the Latvian Sustainable Development Strategy until 2030. The deep human desire to live better, to grow in the quality of life is important for every person and therefore for society as a whole. While the priorities of interests and values are deep personal, overall, the most important desires are focused on the desire for education, health, safe and productive work, individual and national security, material well-being, legal protection of people and personal freedoms. Therefore, the government has set the goal of raising the welfare of Latvia and every family and individual, increasing their faith and belonging to Latvia. In order to achieve its objective, the government has set priorities for its work. These include economic growth, the quality of life of the family and the individual, and state security. When I talk about growth, quality of life and security, I am talking about the growth of the whole of Latvia, each region, as well as the outermost border or coastal settlement, the quality of life and the safety of the people living there. Dear Saeima! I will do just a few of the most important tasks of the government to achieve the target. Economic growth. A good starting point for further work and decisions is that the Latvian economy is one of the fastest growing in the European Union. The government's task is to maintain this dynamic of growth, and in this case I am not talking about 'gas on the floor'. I am talking about smart growth. The government is committed to achieving annual growth of 5 per cent of gross domestic product. A knowledge-intensive economy, foreign investment, export, improvement of the business environment, ensuring fair competition and access to financial resources are crucial for Latvia's economic development and ensuring business competitiveness. The measures just mentioned and others are reflected in our declaration. Next, I will touch on some of the most important aspects of today's economic growth. For the development of the knowledge economy it is not enough that in 2011 Latvia had almost 10 times fewer patents filed at the European Patent Office per 1 million inhabitants than the average in the European Union. Latvia is not enough that the percentage of employees in R & D is 0.08 percent against 0.56 percent on average in the European Union, which is seven times less. The development of the knowledge economy should be built on cooperation between scientists and economic operators and on an improved administrative framework that encourages both scientists and economic operators to find new solutions for converting them into exportable products. The Latvian Research and Innovation Strategic Council is active, in which economic operators and scientists work together. I believe that, within the framework of this cooperation, we will be able to find solutions for the development of scientific potential by concentrating it and linking it to areas of the economy where Latvia has comparative advantages. Latvia needs its Silicon Valley and Steve Jobs. The fact that we can, historically, is confirmed by VEF Minox earlier and remantadine, myldronate and the world-known microTic communications technology today. Today we see Infogr. Am's success and Alexey Popov's talent, improving the e-class. Latvia can! The government will provide support to promote innovation and keep our talents in Latvia. Access to financial resources at all stages of business development is essential for the economy. Based on the analysis of the market failures and the offer of the commercial sector, we will develop new support programmes, expanding the activities of JSC “Development Finance Institution” established this summer. To strengthen business competitiveness, we will prepare and approve a programme to raise corporate capital, improve financial accessibility and promote investment in innovation and research intensive projects. The elimination of distortions of competitiveness in business will be a crucial step in government action. It is important that the business environment is fair so that competition on the market is not restricted either by economic operators or by public parties. Ensuring fair competition will include measures to combat the shadow economy and fight against tax evasion, with a strong focus on combating smuggling, value added tax fraud, envelope wages and illegal employment. Additional resources that can be provided by exports of our products and services and by attracting investment are essential for economic development. We will support the acquisition of new markets by strengthening the capacity of the Embassy and the Investment and Development Agency of Latvia and cooperation with business organisations, economic interest representatives, as well as ensure long-term export support measures. At the beginning of 2014, the investment dynamic was with moderate growth. In the first quarter of this year, Latvia's economy invested 2.2 percent more than a year ago, but the level of investment is still lower than in the pre-crisis years. Investment protection is particularly important for investors. The government will work to facilitate the settlement of commercial disputes by offering the development of alternative methods for dispute resolution. The judicial system should ensure that cases are dealt with effectively within a reasonable time. We will assess and mitigate business risks by clarifying the framework for investor law protection and insolvency. It is precisely the handling of insolvency proceedings that is essential. Another aspect of economic development is the provision of labour supply and the improvement of supply. We will improve cooperation between various institutions in implementing urgent changes in labour market demand, increase the attractiveness and quality of vocational education and training, and ensure that it meets the requirements of the labour market. In employment policy, we will focus not only on reducing unemployment, but also on increasing the skills and productivity of every worker. Let us introduce flexible forms of employment in line with the labour market trends of the European Union and the Baltic States, taking into account the proportionality of workers' and employers' rights. It is important for us to develop all sectors of the economy, including those that I will not name today, through productivity gains and the efficient use of existing resources. It will be important for us to support the return of unused agricultural land to productive production, the economic and sustainable management of forests and inland waters important to us, the development of industries, transport, information technology sectors, financial and other services and unlocking export capacity. Dear Members of the Saeima! We will improve our company's paid service office. Not because we have a bad office. We know many examples when we say thank you to the people who receive their wages from the taxes paid by society. We know excellent teachers, excellent doctors, excellent officials, excellent policemen, and soldiers. We found out about our firefighters, policemen, and doctors in Zolitud. However, I believe that we need to significantly improve our public services so that work is for the benefit of the people, so that a person is not seen as a football ball between institutions, so that the services received by society are of high quality, so that every euro invested in taxpayers gives a return and results. And not only on paper, in calculations, in the real economy or in the expression of spiritual values. Go on. Improving the quality of life of families and individuals. In order to improve the well-being of families and ensure a people’s recovery, the objective and challenge of the next four years is to reduce social and income inequalities. We will work to make it possible for everyone, but especially for the part of society with low income and families with children, to have access to decent work, to earn the necessary income for life, to get better education, access to health care and social services where necessary, and to enjoy cultural life. We believe that this is a way to ensure social security in the country and to promote the involvement of everyone in community and civil society activities, thus providing opportunities to live a full and fulfilling life in a united country of Latvia, which is aware of its national identity and is based on the common moral values of all Latvian citizens. Responsibility for the peers and social solidarity are not possible without persistent efforts to implement decent living conditions for pensioners. We will also work on various support mechanisms for families with children and young families, thus strengthening our people and the country as a whole. I will only touch on a few examples of action to improve the quality of life. Tax and social support instruments will provide income growth for low-income citizens faster than the average for society as a whole. In 2015, we will raise the minimum wage by EUR 40, and continue to raise it in the coming years. Starting in 2016, let us introduce a progressive tax-free minimum for personal income by raising their low wages for recipients, keeping the average wages for recipients close to the current level, while salaries that are significantly above the average wages in the country without applying it. At the same time, we will also increase personal income tax relief for the dependent person by assessing the possibility to apply more reliefs than the second and each subsequent child in the family. One of the most important issues to be addressed is the improvement of the healthcare system. A person who loses his opportunities to take part in the labour market or to spend peaceful ageing due to health problems is a loss for all of us. We will gradually increase the funding of the state budget for health care needs, while at the same time making more effective use of funding already allocated to the health sector in order to reduce inequalities in access to health services also for low-income people, reduce patients' direct payments for health care services and expand evidence-based compensation of necessary medicines and medical devices. The keyword of the education system is quality and access to primary education as close as possible to residence. Quality must be the key to education at all levels. It is important to put in place a system to make young educators the most knowledgeable and targeted people. Teachers must be able to energize our new generation into works and excellence! A small society, for it to be competitive and sustainable, must be an excellent education system, as is the case in the nearby Finland. Therefore, we will reorganize the training programmes of young teachers at higher education institutions. The rural school is a historical, spiritual and economic value, the cultural and social life of Latvian municipalities. We will develop a network of schools that will include a programme for the preservation of rural schools in Latvia, providing education to grade 6 as close as possible to the place of residence. We will pay more attention to the teaching of physical objects (mathematics, physics, chemistry) in schools in order to improve the basic knowledge of students. Let us introduce a funding model for higher education based on quality evaluation of studies and research. This will promote competition and hence quality. We will support the excellence and concentration of science both through human resources development programmes and infrastructure development. Dear Members of the Committee. One of the priorities of our government is security in its broadest sense, with internal security, as well as financial, energy and social security, in addition to national security. I will definitely mention Latvia's national security and defence strengthening as my first mention. Ukraine's events make us remember what we fought for in the barricades. I have received a mandate from my constituents to protect Latvia as a national state, its language, culture and nation. This is a task that has been given us by the people who have gone into exile. It is the responsibility that all of us have in front of the founders of Latvia and the patriots of our country who gave their lives for Latvia. It is clear to us how to increase the defence budget to 2 percent of gross domestic product in the coming years. This is a duty for both our country and our strategic partners. We must also support the internal security of the country by ensuring and supporting the development of our internal system. We are, first and foremost, allies of our own security. Security is also an issue of energy independence and diversification of energy sources, so we are now making every effort to diversify gas supplies and develop other energy sectors, and this will also be one of the key issues for the future government. To achieve energy security, maintaining a cost-benefit balance, we will complete cross-border connections and internal base capacity projects. We will develop a legal framework for opening natural gas markets in Latvia from 2017, achieving alternative natural gas supply opportunities and ensuring free use of Inčukalns gas storage and gas transmission infrastructure for any gas supplier. The coming years are a time when we must certainly do what we have done in the area of energy independence. Dear Members, The first urgent obligation of the government will be the preparation and submission of the state budget to the Saeima. Starting with the 2015-2017 budget framework, the budget investments will be carried out in the priorities set by the government, while maintaining fiscally responsible budgetary policies and macroeconomic stability. The government has not yet had a very responsible task in the history of the country - to implement the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, with special attention given in the Presidency's work programme to the priority activities of the Presidency - the competitiveness and growth of the European Union, the exploitation of the digital potential of Europe and strengthening the role of the European Union on a global scale. I believe that every government minister is aware of the responsibility for carrying out this task. We will be evaluated by both Latvian and international community. Dear Members, The work to be carried out by the Government is summarised in the Government Declaration. This document is available to the Saeima and Latvian society. Our government action plan, which will be drawn up on the basis of the Government Declaration, will include concrete work in various sectors of the economy, in the field of state security, foreign affairs and the creation of a positive international image of Latvia. The declaration was created in intense discussions with coalition partners, non-governmental organisations, business representatives, social partners and sectoral experts. My government will continue to provide regular consultations and full dialogue with social and cooperation partners and municipalities. The government is ready to ensure regular meetings with the opposition to explain and justify its work. Dear Members and honourable Members, I invite you to express your confidence in the established Cabinet of Ministers and its planned tasks. The composition of the government is professional and operational. We have balanced fresh views, experience and succession: in my team, there are three ministerial candidates who do not have previous government work experience, seven who have already been in my first government, and three with government work experience. Thank you to all the parties involved in the coalition for their constructive work in shaping the new government! Dear Members, I am convinced that language, culture, education, Latvian environment is what creates Latvia's national character, which distinguishes us from others in the world, which gives us a sense of belonging and security. Therefore, at a time when Latvia's country is approaching its centenary, we will work for its country's prosperity. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U3	Thank you to Prime Minister's candidate Laimdota Straujuma. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Thank you for your word. First of all, I say a little bit about the government declaration as a whole. And when you read this declaration, it gives the impression that it is simply a summary of good work and pre-election promises, because this declaration does not give any insight into the specific tasks to be achieved in each of the areas covered by the Government Declaration. This is a declaration without a clear breakdown of what has been done in the short term, what has been done in the long term and what is the specific priority objectives. And many points in the declaration indicate simply a desire to promise everything at all costs, and these promises are certainly in no way disproportionate to the resources available for their implementation in life. And how will all this match the possibilities for these many promises to be financed in the next year's budget? I would just mention a few examples. Paragraph 41 of the Government Declaration: ‘... we will support the growth of the development centre of national and regional importance, rural, Baltic coasts, Latgale and border areas...’. Or, for example, point 73: ‘We will implement the road regularisation programme by ensuring the restoration of the main national, regional, local and rural roads and bridges...’. Well, that's all! And perhaps it is not for nothing that Member Viņķele said a few days ago that we will be able to write in Government declarations for another 20 years to reduce inequality. That is why this declaration, too, has been written, with no priority or urgency for reducing inequalities from next year onwards. And I will talk about three specific issues that I have when I read this declaration. First. Could it really not be possible for the coalition to demonstrate, in its work so far, the commitments made in this and also in the previous Straujuma Government Declaration? As a result of the government declaration, the coalition government has not ensured the maintenance of strategic enterprises in the state, but has sold them by any means and at any price to Citadele. The Breach Government was committed to completing its investigation into the Zolitude tragedy, but, as we all know, this work has not been completed, and this declaration has been recorded without a fixed deadline. And, for example, to ensure the "independent, professional and effective functioning of the Anti-Corruption Office"... What has prevented this work from being done so far? A list of such examples can be continued. The second question. If the ruling coalition undertakes to continue the government policy that has already been initiated, then it is not clear why, at so many points in the declaration, the government undertakes to study, analyse, assess before making certain decisions. At present, the composition of the coalition has not changed. It is not clear whether there was indeed enough time to identify clearly the problems of each sector and decide on the steps to be taken on the basis of the National Development Plan, and not... Once again, instead of addressing the problem, the government will spend state budget resources to carry out a comprehensive study on the impact of the micro-enterprises tax, to assess the need for reform of sport management or to develop new policy initiatives such as media policy. Moreover, these planned tasks are not prioritised and it is therefore unclear what tasks the government will consider to be immediate in order to substantially improve the policy area concerned. For example, under the ‘Strengthening Justice’ section of State Security, the first objective is to further improve the legal framework for shared property and mortgage lending. This is, of course, a very important issue. However, is the reform of the judicial system and the commitment to the protection of national interests a much more important issue? Do the Cabinet of Ministers and the ministers in question have no vision of priorities and the existing National Development Plan, which is already in place, not provide a clear basis for ensuring further development of the country? And the third question: why is this declaration particularly outstanding? The government's commitment... In my opinion, only a very narrow circle of officials, professionals can understand how this declaration has been written. It is certainly not written in such a way that it can be read by the public. And in view of my experience in public administration, under the control of the State, I... As I have read and studied very many sectoral strategies, policies, I can say that this official language is not strange to me and that this declaration certainly claims to be one of the more unclear, incomprehensible, both in terms of structure and content, and in terms of language. I would like to quote one of the points of the declaration: “When developing the framework for the implementation of the specific support objectives of the European Union funds 2014-2020 programming period, let us prepare a needs analysis, the resulting criteria and the indicators to be achieved in the territorial breakdown.” I can only hope that at least the officials understand at what point any analysis will be carried out, what criteria will be developed and when the government will approve them. This declaration states in no way that "in the 2014-2020 programming period, we will provide targeted support to public authorities... in order to promote the growth of national competitiveness and the structural adjustment of the economy, employment and education, reduce inequalities, promote balanced territorial development and the efficient use of environmental resources". However, it is unlikely that aid to public authorities can directly affect the balanced development of the area and the growth of competitiveness. It must be hoped that those who will support public authorities and officials will indeed also demand responsibility from officials, individuals, for the results achieved. Unfortunately, however, there is no word in this declaration for strengthening responsibility. This is indeed a weak declaration - without a common vision, without an agreement - which are the urgent tasks that the country needs to carry out, in which sectors and which will be government budgetary priorities. And such a declaration does not provide assurance that Latvia will achieve real growth, reduce inequality and the number of families at risk of poverty. And since the party “From the heart to Latvia” is for real change and we do not really want Latvia to stand for another 20 years, as it has done so far, I call for a vote against the approval of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you. ( AWARD OF THE NSL and THE SPIRIT of the Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U5	Thank you. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U6	Hello! I would like to talk in fact about two points on the declaration: the ideas and ideas contained in Declarations 23 and 24. This is particularly important to us because these points in the declaration talk about the use of European Structural Funds by 2020. And I understand that all those present - both Members of the Saeima, Ministers and Mrs Straujuma - understand how important this money is, this EUR 4.6 billion, which can be used very differently - both to solve the problems of our country and to move away from some of the negative situations that we all - society, politicians and the people of the ministries - have found, but can also be extorted, as the people say. It is therefore very important for ministers to monitor these issues, as all this is currently in the process. Strategic development objectives. We remember that there were quite a lot of discussions - at least between municipalities and the government - on what strategic development goals we must then set ourselves to use this European structural funds money. They have been approved. Now there is practical, concrete work on the development of initial assessments on these strategic development goals, on the development of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, on the development of criteria projects, which will be submitted to implement these strategic development goals. I can say that this process is very difficult. Two working days ago, I took part in the subcommittee of the European Union's Structural Funds Monitoring Committee, where we looked at two of these strategic development objectives, discussed the criteria and the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers. These were objectives to be achieved by the Ministry of Welfare, but we all found together that the same problems on these issues also apply to all the objectives to be achieved by other ministries. And what is the main problem from the point of view of municipalities? The main problem is that ministerial officials do not want to... part does not want to, because it is more convenient to live by the old, start doing something new, because routines are drawn and routines are easier to work, but partly cannot work according to such a very important criterion - that we use these structural funds in a targeted way so that they can be made available to all people of Latvia, not only in some development centres, and be close, let's say, not only to Riga and the big cities, but to all people of Latvia. We need to introduce this term, as it really already exists - the risk of territorial exclusion. We have to work on this term! We have had an immeasurable debate on this issue, and ministerial officials say: “We can’t, we don’t have data.” Because the local government's idea is that to achieve these goals, to implement these projects, it is necessary to collect, monitor and analyse data in the local government distribution up to the level of rural areas. Paragraph 23 simply records... No, I am sorry, in paragraph 24: "indicators in territorial distribution". If, in this sense, we do not put into it the content about which I said that these indicators are necessary up to the level of the rural areas, that means that we will measure, so to speak, the average temperature in the hospital. And I want to ask the doctor: How can you treat the disease with which the patient is suffering by measuring the average hospital temperature? How can you identify the patient’s true condition? It is therefore our insistence and, in my opinion, a very logical and understandable requirement to work on the collection, monitoring and analysis of data in the local government distribution to the parish areas. There are more than 280 databases in the public administration, and there's the second part of the question that officials can't partly... because they say: “We cannot use these databases because they are not compatible, they are difficult to use. If you need anything, write down the application! We will accept the application, we will transfer some details to you at your request from our databases.” But is it style when we talk about information technologies and the time we are in? Should this provide for the exchange of data between these databases? Then I have to ask you again: why, all these years, the question of making all these databases easy for each other... to allow easy exchange of information and easy access to information for those working on resolution packages? The principle of sectors here is a major obstacle, and it is also one of the obstacles to tackling this issue. Sector principle! Each ministry, institution in its industry takes care of its own things, collects data, but life is complex, life is not broken down by industry. We need to deal with complex issues. In order to address complex issues, we need rapid and accessible information. And I would ask the ministers indeed to pay attention to this issue and keep it in mind, because if there is no request from your officials for such a treatment of this issue, then I expect too much time to be wasted, because time is also a value, time is money. For hours and hours, come together in the ministry for various employees and hours to argue about obvious issues - I think it is useless. And there is a request to finally solve the issue of the interoperability of these databases. And also statistics... The Central Statistical Office says that they have no problem collecting information, statistics, up to the parish level. The question is money. Of course, if we do not resolve this issue, we will always be able to account for the European Union's "right" use of funds. But will these funds be spent correctly for us, for our people and for our citizens? I think no, so I call on the ministers and Mrs Straujuma to pay particular attention to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U7	Thank you. Name to Member Dainie Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! I immediately thank Mrs Silver, because she has saved at least 10 minutes of my speech, which I also had to prepare for. And I fully agree with what you said: this analysis was very well-founded and I join it personally. But there's another question. We are discussing a possible Cabinet today, and we are discussing this Cabinet's action plan - a declaration. I do not understand this in any other way than the action plan for the next four years. At least I have the business: if I plan something, then I too am not responsible with my pocket, as I will. I am responsible for how I will provide funding for this, how I will work and how all this will evolve. The feeling of reading this declaration is that there is no responsibility at all. I am sorry, I do not want to offend anyone, but at the moment the question is simple: what is the task of this declaration? What is the vision of this country? Will we be an agricultural country with development of agriculture and forests? Will we be a logistics developing country with ports? Will we be a pharmaceutical development country? It's all out of something, but there's no particular task for a given four years... to which we are focusing. And actually, talking about... Mrs Straujuma has already mentioned the fact that, at this point, we want to prevent further migration, we want to bring people back to the country. Yes, we are joining this plan! But I don't think any of those young entrepreneurs who are thinking about it with their families right now... trying to decide - to drive away or to stay - when reading this declaration will really choose to stay in Latvia for the next four years. The way it is written is not for them! It really is for officials. I'm sorry, but this country... that we do, let's develop... it does not, in any case, give rise to any belief that this will really happen. The action taken so far - and Mrs Straujuma also mentions that this Cabinet of Ministers will be as a successor to the previous one - shows that nothing will change very much, because there was already room for change in the previous period... Responsibility for your words and your actions has not been a priority. Neither can this document be held responsible. And if someone says it's weak, I would say that in reality the declaration is very strong - it's written in such a way that no one will have to bear responsibility for these four years, because no one can deny that anyone did not encourage, develop, try... But what are the specific actions, which are the specific objectives? And there is much to be said about the lack of regional development and other things, but what I have in general... I cannot support a declaration of this kind that does not answer me personally as a citizen of this country to a question that is something that I should convince myself, my relatives, my friends and my acquaintances to work in this country, to trust it and to endure the difficulties that are now, because I don't see that right now... We'll be better in the coming year. I do not see these objectives in this declaration, and I therefore call for this declaration not to be supported. Thank you. ( LRA is clear.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U9	Thank you. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U10	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, The Latvians have faith - as you will expect the New Year, you will also spend the next year. Yesterday we started the new beginning of this Saeima's work, and as we started, I think everyone remembers well, starting with playing an anthem and ending with all the peripetations for all kinds of votes. Absolutely ineffective! There is much talk here about the declaration. When I read it or listened to Mrs Straujuma's speech, it reminded me of the Soviet times, the PSCP Congress, where there were also words such as "let's put it in place", "let's develop it," but nothing concrete. I fully agree with Mr Liepiņš that this declaration is not in the interests of our society and the state. Where is something specific? We are talking about security - especially this issue was raised before the elections - but what do you really expect? NATO documents foresee that any country... NATO also believes that the security threat is terrorism, cyber crime, drugs, organised crime... What does this mean by this declaration? The Ministry of Defence speaks of cyber security, but unfortunately not Mrs Straujuma and obviously the whole Cabinet of Ministers do not understand the difference between investigating cyber crime and preventing cyber security... the fact that these are two separate cases. At the same time, shortly before the elections, I received a reply from Prime Minister Straujuma, who made it clear that there is no need to establish a cyber crime prevention and investigation centre in Latvia. We have talked a lot about education problems in the legal system. Prosecutor General Kalnmeier talks about a sharp fall in the quality of police officers, investigators. In its meetings, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption twice unanimously decided that on the basis of the National Security Academy... I apologise, on the basis of the Latvian National Defence Academy of the Ministry of Defence, it is necessary to create a National Security Academy, where representatives of all power structures could be trained optionally, at the same time also organising special courses, training courses for judges, prosecutors and the like. Before the elections, I received a letter from Mrs Straujuma, who clearly says that, you know, such a higher education institution is not needed in our country. What do you mean? Are we specifically lowering the level of knowledge of the law enforcement staff so that they do not begin to investigate one another's questionable case? At least I have the feeling that it is done and created specifically so that we have uneducated specialists, because it is obviously easier then to shout around the pockets. Before the elections, I had to meet with the young people. And one young girl from the Eagles... She's 15 years old, she's studying at a professional technical school, she's two professions. And I asked her, “What are you going to do next?” She plans to wait for 16 years and travel with her friend to Italy because Mom and her brother are already in England and nobody is going to return. The youth plans are unfortunately very sad, Mrs Straujuma! Where is the youth programme? How will we maintain our future as Latvia? How will we recover them? What are we going to do to get them back? Where is it said? Are there any such features in your declaration? As policemen, firemen, and other representatives of force structures, we remember only when they have performed some heroic acts. But just as the heroic works have passed, we neglect them. A year ago, social guarantees for police, border guards, firemen were finally restored, and state compulsory health insurance was finally introduced. However, when amending the law, it was also recorded that the Cabinet of Ministers had to adopt two regulations by 1 January this year. Unfortunately, Mrs Straujuma, they were only adopted in October. All right, you will pay all these compensations, but about what faith in the government, the Saeima we are talking about, if the civilians of the dead firemen are now forced to prove by court that they have actually lived with the deceased, but the government, the Ministry of the Interior, is going to judge against and say that they will not pay these compensations?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We can talk a lot about possible developments, but I do not see this; I do not see the planned reforms. The previous coalition was a coalition of ‘reform and justice’. What reforms have been carried out over the last three years? Who have they come to an end? Where are we going? One of the basic laws, the basic laws of our land, is the law of causes and consequences. You are talking about priorities. Education, health, safety - these are very good priorities, but I have not seen or heard anywhere what is meant by priority in security, how much money needs to be invested in security, so that there is also a return in the economy. Unfortunately, that is not the case. You obviously don't know how to count. It is a declaration of stagnation that is not geared towards development. It is also said: “Let’s avoid the threat to the internal security of Latvia created by foreign inspired forces.” What is it? If the United States and NATO now acknowledge that one of the main threats is Islamic... is terrorism, so how does it relate to the declaration? If the Commander of the National Armed Forces finally admits that, you know, our armed forces are based on Rapid Response Teams, which are absolutely the right point of view, how will this take place through this declaration? Just lost 20 years because this system has not been developed! Undoubtedly, I cannot support such a very lax and stagnant declaration, but I am comforted by the fact that the basic democratic law is that power belongs to the majority... So the coalition owns this power... but the development of the country and society is being advanced by a minority, and the opposition will also move forward despite you! ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U11	Thank you. Member Aldis Adamovičs took part in the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U12	Honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, I also speak in one of the Latgalian dialects, but today I will speak in literary language, so that perhaps everyone understands better. Currently, I also represent Latgale Planning Region as the Head and have led Preili Municipality for many years. I want to now slightly object to previous colleagues with a few numbers... the figures I think you have an opportunity to get acquainted with in any ministry. And the future European fund programmes, which are being driven, are also available to the whole of Latvian society. I would like to say a great deal of thanks today to the previous government and also to the Prime Minister, because all planning regions, not only Latgale, have expected acceptance from ministers in the last two or three years. And especially at the moment, I would like to emphasise the contribution of the last MoEPRD ministers to the development of Latgale and the Latgale Programme, which has been in operation for two or three years. It has given real support to Latgale municipalities, entrepreneurs and residents in general, because these millions, which were invested in road improvement, street renovation, changing underground communications, access roads, infrastructure areas, industrial zones, cultural objects in Daugavpils and Rezekne, have revived many places in Latgale and I think in Latvia too, if we are talking about other cities and centres in other regions as well. That is why I would also like to say good words at this point in time about the fact that this proposed declaration has revealed the concept of rural areas, which was perhaps a problem. And I would just like to see the National Development Plan adjusted a little, because many rural municipalities may have been divided up so far, but seeing acceptance both from the Union of Greens and Farmers, from the National Alliance and from the Unity, which is currently working intensively with small regional parties, I really see in this declaration what will be done and which has financial coverage, so to speak about the fact that there are no specific figures - that is foolishness, because at least the leaders of the local government are familiar with the proposals of each ministry! There may, of course, be changes, there may be adjustments, and this will probably happen, in cooperation with the government, but thanks to the fact that rural areas are also included here. And let this declaration also be fulfilled! I really want to say at this point what the candidate for the Prime Minister said, where the most important problems in the country were clearly identified and there was also a proposal for a solution to them. I therefore call, colleagues, on us today to vote in favour of the new Cabinet! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U13	Thank you. Member Mārtiņš Bondars took part in the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U14	Colleagues! Colleagues! Yesterday in this platform we made an oath - we promised that we would respect the laws of the Republic of Latvia and the Constitution. For a month now, we have seen how this government is being made, and we have seen that this government is being created not by Laimdota Straujuma, but by many other characters. And we suspected that Laimdota Straujuma was not its main creator of government, but yesterday, the President of Latvia said publicly from this tribunal that according to Article 55 of the Satversme, no government was formed. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “That’s not what he said!” ) And, Mr Shadursky, I would recommend... ( From the hall: “Do not talk to the grass! ” ) I would recommend... I would recommend that you remember what you committed less than 24 hours ago when you voted in favour of the government today. ( From the drug depot. A. Lokutov: “What happened then?” ) Then... ( Merry laughter.) Mr. Loskotov, this is not a press conference! ( The drug is noise. (See the box below.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U15	Mr. Bondar, don't talk to the hall! Continue the debate, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U16	On the declaration. Yesterday my colleague Juris Viļums made an oath in Latvian with a Latgalian dialect. ( From the medicine, “There is no topic! ” ) While reading the Government Declaration, I have some doubts about the spelling of the Latvian language and the applicability of the literary language in this Declaration. Let the correctioners and editors judge the Latvian language already (From the hall dep. A.Latkovsky: “Right!” OF THE Unity: “We will improve!” ), but I would like to say that yesterday, at 9 a.m., the words in the declaration could not be explained by the ministers of the future government. And the words are important, Mrs Straujuma! Therefore, I would recommend to your future Cabinet of Ministers, however, that the declaration that this Saeima may accept, will be carefully familiar with what is then written there. And finally. If we finish the declaration, then... However, when writing a declaration, it is necessary to comply with the laws - the Cabinet of Ministers' Equipment Law... And the declaration should, however, be built for the period during which this government continues... is going to work, not the period after the working time of this government. And finally. Mrs Straujuma, Eastern officials are first appointed and then, if necessary, elected. In the West, there is a very intense competition between ideas and personalities. And the question is: is Latvia closer to the East or the West? But in order to help you answer this question, I would suggest that you ask yourself another question: if there were a people's elected president in Latvia, would he put you up as candidates for the Prime Minister in January and yesterday?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U17	Thank you. In the next debate, Ms Viņķele, Member, spoke up. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U18	Good morning, dear colleagues! A short replica. I think we'll get to see many talents already in this parliamentary term. One of the sparkers today has the excellent ability to speak for at least five minutes and not to say anything. I have a deep respect for my head! ( A Pleasure of Unity.) It is very humane to imagine that history begins directly with your party entering the Saeima. In Latvia, as a democratic country, the policy follow-up has been established and the country's development goals have already been defined in at least two very serious and well-developed development planning documents, which have been created in very broad discussions with society. If I am not mistaken, about 4 000 ideas were put forward by the public in the National Development Plan, which was then incorporated into the National Development Plan in the discussions. And I will remind you that the entire Saeima, including the opposition, voted in favour of the National Development Plan. And if I am not mistaken, this plan was adopted unanimously. Consequently, the declaration of the government led by Mrs Straujuma successively continues to implement these two development documents... Yes, it is no wonder that there is no sharp change in policy. And it's good that it doesn't! And there are two things I sincerely wish Latvia. The first is research- and evidence-based policies and politicians that do not detract from research for populist reasons... the specific situation of Latvia requires the development of research, which is the only basis... And I hope that we will move closer to practice that research and evidence are the basis for policy development. And the other thing I sincerely wish Latvia is a professional and constructive opposition that is capable of expressing criticism of the substance of the position, with at least three contradictions during one sentence. Thank you (LAUGHTER OF Unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U19	Thank you. Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U20	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! I have a few questions... Notes in connection with the Government Declaration. First of all, I would like to thank you. Indeed, people worked very hard and hard to draw up this declaration. Secondly, in substance, I had some comments and I feel that they have not been explained in the declaration either. We understand the words "security" and "protection" very often in different ways in the context of NATO and the Ministry of Defence. The first question is this. Each year NATO organises crisis management exercises. They shall be organised every year for a period of at least fourteen years. Such lessons are also held in Latvia. Both NATO and not only NATO countries, including UN representatives, participate in crisis management exercises. Then I have a question. Given that this issue has not been addressed in the Government Declaration and that it is usually planned that at the top of the crisis management in Latvia... that the Prime Minister takes the lead, then my conclusion is that the crisis that has taken place... a relative crisis, but it was still a crisis, a national or local crisis, when the castle was burning when an accident occurred in Zolitūde, then we did not have problems from the point of view of the crisis management system. There's no need to improve. That is my conclusion, because there are no issues in the Government Declaration on its improvement. My second point is mainly with the Minister of Defence, because I am focusing more on security and defence issues. I read the declaration, since I saw territorial protection... such names. As a former Chief of Joint Staff of the National Armed Forces... we used the word "national defence policy", which was based on territorial protection... Well, there was, too, a total of protection. Then I have a question now: could it not formulate what national defence policy is, because Article 11 of the National Security Act determines the competences of the Ministry of Defence and there are three points. The first is to formulate a specific national defence policy and implement it. The second is about the budget, and the third is about the staff. On the budget is the law adopted, it is clear. We're going to increase the defence budget there. It is right, normal, it is to be supported. I could talk about the pace. About education. What colleague John Adamson talked about is a common teaching institution. I know many of the arguments that would have been positive if such a common teaching institution had been, but I have not seen the reasons why it would not be possible to do so. And the most interesting thing is that the Minister of the Interior, present and probably the next one - Richard - is that he, I think, knows about the fact that border guards are already studying the course of new staff officers at the Academy today. So this cooperation is already under way. Just - should it not be formulated in such a way that it is also officially approved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U21	Thank you. Ms Regina Ločmele-Lunova spoke in the ensuing debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U22	Dear colleagues, Very briefly why I am voting against the creation of this government today. And I will speak not only on behalf of myself, but also on behalf of those people who voted for me and for the Social Democratic Party's 'Conciliation' and who continue to write to me, speak to me and ask me to tell you a few things. First. Looking at the preamble to the Declaration, or in the introduction, we can see that it is written here that the government has committed itself to working to ensure that by 2020... In other words, it reads: “Let’s move towards a positive value for natural population growth in 2020.” Working on statistics, I concluded that, in order to achieve a positive value, we need an additional 12 000 children a year in demographics. ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķele: “Over 20 thousand a year!” ) What do I ask? Over 20... above 12... well, I figured it was 12...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U23	Don't talk to the grass! Please continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U24	I could not trust what was written in this declaration with regard to this objective, because one of the probably future ministers, Mr Reira, said before the elections in the debate that there were 300 thousand people living in Latvia, that by 1940 we had a smaller population, that that was enough and that there was a good life. I do not think that we will achieve this goal, namely, in a 'positive value' demographics, by reducing our population. It is said here that "the poverty risk index for families with three or more dependent children will fall to 30 percent in 2017." It's a pity that it doesn't say how big this percentage is today! I would like to believe that at present it is not the case that each other's family, with three or more children, is at risk of poverty. Looking at our family benefits, I do not believe this statement. Let's see point 118 of the declaration! This is the case with regard to the demographics: “Let’s create a special support system for positive demographics, natural growth and reducing the number of artificial terminations of pregnancy.” Consequently, if we carefully read that point, it follows that the Government undertakes to establish a special system of support for reducing the number of artificial terminations of pregnancy. We're going to pay for a woman's abortion? Ask yourself, ‘ Can we contribute at all to the demographics? ’ There is one more thing that I was very asked to say to you by my constituents. Section “Energy” states in paragraph 55 that the Government will develop a legal framework for opening the natural gas market in Latvia from 2017. I want to tell you what people think about it and what has already been done with another market, namely, with the opening up of the electricity market. People believe that maintaining a monopoly simply leads to higher prices for electricity, and only asks for one thing: not to allow the same to be done with natural gas in this Saeima. Of course, as an opposition, we will try to fight for what was done with electricity... in some way to mitigate these consequences, but I will do my utmost to prevent what is written in this paragraph 55. And the last one. Paragraph 91. The section “Family and individual quality of life in Latvia” states: “The government will promote the activities of various groups of society and engage in community initiatives, civil society activities and cooperation with public administration and local government institutions, thus promoting public confidence in policies and democratic structures, reducing social isolation, which can be the basis for social exclusion.” I would like to say that, until there is a government party that won this election and which represents at least a quarter of the voters, we cannot talk about any implementation of this paragraph in our lives, because our voters feel excluded and isolated from politics and from social life in that country. Thank you. ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U25	Thank you. Member Igor Pimenov spoke in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U26	President of the Bureau, to be highly respected. Dear Members, Honourable Members! For reasons of fairness, it should be noted that the declaration is not an action plan, it is written in the language of the promises and intentions, and therefore it is unlikely that specific measures, numbers and detailed tasks can be required. There will be another three months, and if this government gets its mandate to work... the plan will probably be drawn up... will certainly be developed, and then we will decide after work. But are our intentions clear so that we can entrust our country to this government? I would also like to increase the government that we received this declaration at least the day before, and not as it was until now, because the government of Valda Dombrovskis brought... had brought our declaration to the Saeima literally one hour before the Saeima meeting in which we had to discuss the Government Declaration. I think there's progress! However, we were unfortunately unable to analyse this declaration carefully, because the opposition members were denied this possibility. However, I am reading this declaration and I do not believe in my own eyes. The aim of the government is to increase the well-being of the population, government priorities - economic growth, family and individual quality of life. Go on. The government will ensure the maintenance of strategic enterprises in state ownership, increase the funding of the state budget for health care needs. And a climax in this declaration: the aim of the next four years will be to reduce social and income inequality. Ladies and gentlemen! These are guidelines for the programme of the Social Democratic Party! It is not for nothing that we encouraged the President of State to establish a government of the Rainbow State, but will we be able to work in a government of the Rainbow, whose declaration is being viewed today? I stress that we cannot! Why can't we do that? Because this government is going to go on with the policies that... That is, the policy launched by the previous government, which (I quote) "will be based on the principles of fiscal responsibility and macroeconomic stability". So a policy that took money from the economy, consolidating budgets, pursuing internal devaluation policies, reducing pay for police, teachers and nurses, raising taxes and thus undermining business in Latvia and pushing the people belonging to Latvia out of economic emigration to Western Europe. The harsh economic policy has failed in any Member State of the European Union, and all 28 Member States are now suffering from stagnation. Latvia is no exception. But still the government of this financial policy... on the objective of financial policy lays down the consolidated budget and a high state credit rating, hoping that when we sit on the shores of the Baltic Sea, we will expect the financial markets to come to us and build a new VEF, a new wagon factory, a new semiconductor plant in the Republic of Latvia. It's utopia! We will never be able to expect this money. Our country's economy can only be in the hands of our country. Our goal is to create new jobs, because it is jobs that will create new market demand, which will motivate our businesses to develop industry and thus boost the economy. In her comments, Mrs Straujuma also refers to a specific number when speaking on television, which should be ensured by encouraging our economic growth, namely 5 per cent. In 2009, the World Bank calculated that in order for countries such as Latvia to reach the average level of the European Union, there should be 7 and half percent in 20 years. Consequently, we simply cannot expect the financial markets. What is needed? In any case, it is necessary to use our budget to invite money from external sources, but we must support industry based on our public funds. Go on. Reducing social inequalities. More recently, this concept, and this requirement, was not at all contained in the programmes of central and neoliberal policies. This appeared only in spring of this year, when the Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament made this request on the European Union's agenda. We also see now: the right-wing parties are actively using this requirement. But with what instruments does the government intend to reduce social inequalities? I would like to quote the point that has been made in the declaration, namely that there is no progressive minimum personal income tax. By introducing this inevitable minimum, the government hopes that social inequality will decrease, but only salaries are mentioned as an object subject to personal income tax. Let us remember that income is also received by those who receive dividends! The dividends are at all outside this measure and are not correct. Let us remember that when our country regains its independence, it is restored as a new rich state! And this happened in all 15 countries that were formed instead of the former Soviet Union. It is in those countries that the principle of progress has not been ensured anywhere. That is why social inequalities in those 15 countries, as well as in Eastern and Central European countries, are the highest, but in Latvia social inequalities are the highest in comparison with other Member States of the European Union. More recently, I took part in discussions on the new tax policy. It was during the pre-election campaign. There, a left politician compared progressive personal income tax with true progress, and he said that the progressive personal income tax exempt minimum differs from the progressive income tax as a cream product. In fact, a measure that will now be introduced by the government will not reduce social inequalities at all, but the task is completely different: to change the situation dramatically, to prevent money from passing out of the poor people to the rich and richest, and to make sure that, in the end, it remains in the state budget with the government's actions and is really used to reduce inequalities. When another declaration is drawn up, when our concrete economic proposals are taken into account, it will be possible to create a government that will ensure both a reduction in social inequalities, the restoration of a new economy in Latvia and an increase in the quality of life. But at the moment, when we look at this declaration, when we see specific objectives and targets, when we see that the government will maintain the same policies as we have seen over the last decade, we cannot under any circumstances support this government. Thank you. ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U27	Thank you. Mrs Chiganne has applied for in the next debate, but since it is time for a break, I will ask: will it be enough for you to have ten minutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U28	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would just like to make a few remarks about what has been said by some colleagues from this troubling. I understand very well Mr Bondara, who is not here at the moment... I understand his longing for a romantic, beautiful folk hero who will come and all be set in the sun. However, Mr Bondara has to understand that such heroes only say that the princes in the white horse live in fairy tales. J.Adamson’s mids.) and that the people's elected president is not a panacea that will immediately write to us a declaration that we will all love and that we will all like. That, of course, does not happen in life! At the same time, I would also like to make a few comments on what Mrs Silver has said. I have to say, first of all, that even when she goes through a rather intense pre-election campaign, Mrs Silver has obviously not changed anything in her rhetoric, and what Mrs Silver said here, from this platform, is the same hair in her hair as the things you spoke when you led the State Audit Office. The words “no vision”, “no general plan”, “no setup” are empty phrases and so on. Mrs Silver, you have not noticed one of the important things that Mrs Viņķele mentioned. We have adopted the National Development Plan in 2012, we have drawn up an operational programme that has enabled us, as one of the first Member States of the European Union, to conclude a partnership agreement with the European Union so that we can start learning the Structural Funds in good time. We have also decided on this, and we have now set up a Sustainable Development Commission in the Saeima, where we will monitor exactly how the National Development Plan is implemented. So that's a number of important things I recommend to you to look at and explore. You also talked about inequality. You are concerned that the Government declaration does not state that we will exacerbate inequalities immediately, immediately and now. Mrs. Silver, that is impossible! It is possible only in Orwell’s books, where all people are equal, gray and cut in one measure. But, you know, there is also the principle that everyone is equal, but others are even more equal than others. What has the government already done to reduce inequalities? The unlimited minimum has been raised, the relief for the dependent person has been raised, the minimum wage has been raised already now, in 2014. Mrs. Silver, is that enough? Of course not! That's not enough. I do agree with you in this regard. Mr Pimenova has already criticised the fact that the possible differential non-circumcised minimum is not a cream but only such a hail. Here I do not agree with you! I believe that this is a very important way in which we can ensure that people with lower incomes remain in the purse for more money. And I very much hope that, under the leadership of Mr Straujuma, we will, as planned, introduce this differentiated, non-equitable minimum. At the same time, it is planned to raise the minimum wage significantly, and this will also have a direct impact on inequality. And the last comment to Mrs Silvera, on what you said about shared property. You said that the Government Declaration wrongly highlighted the issue of shared ownership, that it was necessary to talk about other things. Mrs Silver, do you not really know that, at the moment, there are very many people living in forced rental relationships in our major cities - the owners of apartment apartments, who pay very significant amounts for being in these divided property relations? This has a direct impact on inequality issues! Addressing the issue of shared property is very important, and already the 11th Saeima has done so in this respect, and I very much hope that we can continue to do so. And finally. Mr Pimenova, who has very much parliamentary experience, has very clearly stated that there is a Government Declaration and then there are action plans prepared by the Ministry of each sector. And the sectoral ministries are not raging through the sky, but are trying to tell us what the real indicators to be achieved will be, what the real directions of action will be for these conceptually defined objectives in the Government declaration. So that these things are important, and of course I am calling for a vote in favour of Laimdota Straujuma's Cabinet of Ministers and for a declaration to be supported, and for constructive help to achieve its best and most important objectives. ( A Pleasure of Unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U29	Mr. Elksnins, will you have enough time for a debate? ( From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “Satisfy!” ) Yes, thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U30	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, It really must be said: what would the coalition parties do today without opposition and without the wise words that may come from us or from a declaration that would be very much for you as a road bread in relation to the next government's work?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Here, however, it has to be said that very many speakers have indeed pointed out those general concepts and the arguments contained in the declaration. Well, basket as you wish, the declaration is like a story in the whole story. However, I will divide my opinion into two units: with regard to the procedure in which the declaration has been adopted under the Cabinet of Ministers' equipment law, and with regard to what is good in the declaration and what, to say, is bad. Based on Section 15 of the Cabinet of Ministers Structure Law, the declaration on the activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers is a document of political guidance, which is drawn up for the entire term of office of the Cabinet of Ministers and which includes priorities of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, objectives to be achieved and results to be achieved. Well, then there's got to be something at the beginning? The Prime Minister should first be nominated, and then a declaration should be made. Not the other way around! To a large extent this would be in line with the established legal framework. And what do I see in this declaration? What has not been done before, what has been taken over from the previous declaration in the new declaration and what is new in that declaration. What follow-up will be given to the objectives set and their planning. At the moment, we see that the document that has been drawn up reminds us more of a collection of political party slogans in the form of factions. And to a large extent, it's like a sprinter to immediately reach the specified bar, which would be reachable. This declaration, unlike other declarations, contains an introduction, but I did not find a conclusion. Justice... For specific areas of law... Well, human rights, the individual responsibility of officials for the violations committed... There's no... It includes: ‘Let us implement the concept of national police development’. When? Will we renew the Latvian Police Academy? This has already been promised three years before the previous elections. We're gonna raise the cops' salaries? I am sorry, but the Saeima will now have to adopt a budget, and I want to see concrete calculations. Gradually increase the financing of protection to 2 per cent of gross domestic product by 2020. I am sorry, but during the elections, the political parties dealt with the auction in relation to the setting of a different deadline. This is not the case in this document. There is no question in this document about the liberalisation of the electricity market expected from 1 January. In the case ‘let us finish investigations into the Zolitude tragedy’, whereas this declaration does not ‘complete the sale of Citadele’. In other words, now the clock is almost twelve and we can assume: the “Citadeles” sales contract has already been signed. Reducing VAT on food. All you have promised is not in the declaration. Reduction of VAT on heating - no declaration, no president elected by the people - no declaration, no strengthening of powers of the State Audit Office - no declaration! The microbusiness tax, where everyone said that this 9 percent rate should be maintained here... Where is it in the declaration? Let us carry out a comprehensive assessment taking into account tax regulation and its impact... la la la la for four years, but before the next elections let us return to it. Let us provide pension indexation, taking account of most of the average increase in the salary of insurance contributions... When? Well, what? How much - for EUR 7, how did it happen this October? To a large extent, this is not clearly stated either. Let us significantly extend public support to large families... Well, what? How much? Addressing the problem of non-citizens... No declaration! Develop a lifelong learning strategy for people supporting treatment and treatment... I am sorry, we will have a next minister who will miss at least EUR 500 million in the ministry. What are you gonna do? This is a problem, and it must be a declaration. We will gradually increase the funding of the state budget for health care needs... Also... Regional development... And given the availability of public resources... ( From the drug depot. I. Pastor: “Time!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U31	Mr Elksniņš, the 5 minutes you have announced have passed. ( From the hall: “Let it speak! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U32	Could I have another minute?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U33	Are Members in favour of extending the time for debate by one minute? One minute's agreement is given by Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U34	And now, honourable colleagues, for the positive in this declaration. ( The Hall is full of hands.) Then you can do two, right? All right! ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Slow and emphasize!” ) Indeed... The declaration does not contain any words such as privatisation. Very good! There is also no question of the decriminalisation of marijuana. There's no question, either... ( From the drug depot. I. Intersor of the Viņķelis. It's a weep. (Laughter) There is also no question in the declaration of how the government will act in the future European Council. There is no question about the removal of Russians living in Latvia from Latvia. That is very positive! There is no record, let us say, that we will make a comprehensive assessment, taking into account the impact on the national budget, for example by saying that we will always have summer time. That's... it would actually fit into this structure. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this document is indeed to a large extent more political thesis, which does not even match the promises made by the political parties that make up this coalition. Indeed, we call for the budget to be drawn up more quickly and on the basis of principles, as promised during the pre-elections regarding the availability of funds, for example, that we will correct the roads in Latgale... ( From the drug depot. I. Pastor: “Why steal time from break?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Learn to organize yourself!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U35	Mr Elksniņš, the time for your debate has passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U36	... that we will strengthen the Ministry of Health. Thank you. ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U37	Thank you. So, colleagues, it's time for a break. Before we go on a break, we must register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! So, colleagues, the break is till 12 noon. But now the name to Gunārs Kusiņš, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, to read the results of the registration... Gunar Kūtris, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U38	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis, Rihards Kols, Dace Melbārde and Edwins Shnore. And... Everyone is! Thank you. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U39	Dear colleagues, It's 12 noon. Please take your seats in the hall! We are continuing the Saeima sitting. Mr Kozlovskis, Member of the European Parliament, has added to the next debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U40	Dear President of the Saeima. Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank the coalition partners for actually paying serious attention to internal security and national security as a whole in this Government Declaration for the first time. And, in my opinion, it is precisely the direction that this government will work on, if it is approved, that is very important. In my opinion, these are very important. I would also like to thank the only of opposition colleagues - Mr Pimenova - who pointed out that this is not a government action plan. The next work is the government action plan, which will set out concrete steps towards achieving these objectives and the deadlines for achieving them. I would also like to say that it is not true that the previous government was determined to complete its investigation into the Zolitude tragedy in these nine months. In particular, paragraph 122 of the previous government declaration indicates that the government was committed to providing the necessary human and logistical resources to successfully complete the Zolitude tragedy investigation. And, as we all know, the Chief of State Police has specifically confirmed that this year this criminal case will be completed, the work of the State Police will be completed and the case will be referred to the Prosecutor's Office for prosecution. That is, if we are talking about deadlines. On the criticism of the National Security Academy. This debate has been, yes, and Mr Chair indicated it as one of the possible solutions at the time of the previous government declaration. Unfortunately, Mr Chair laid down the parliamentary mandate, and this issue did not go further. But I would like to say that the declaration by this government, the future government, in particular paragraph 158, states how we see further developments in education. And, colleagues, I want to say that it is important, not a house or a name, but content and quality. So we need to talk, first, about the programmes and, second, about the specialists and teachers who will implement them. Since the action plan will define these work with complete precision and how we will achieve these objectives. If we are talking about this criticism, especially the one we have recently heard about the fact that these regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers have been passed late, then it must be said: yes, first of all, because the conciliation process took a long time - longer than we had anticipated - given that this applies not only to the rescue service staff, but also to all officials with special degrees of service, as well as to other officials in the ministry... And for the moment I can assure you that in any case, all those who have suffered will receive all the necessary money that is intended. In the case of this trial, which did not recognise the joint holding of a certain deceased rescuer with one of the women, it should be said: this is the jurisdiction of the court. As we know, in a similar case, with regard to the fatal police officer Znotiņš, the court ruled and recognised the existence of such a family, more rightly, joint farm. The applicant was therefore represented in the court by the prosecutor in order to establish the legal fact. That is why I completely reject some criticism from the Ministry of the Interior that it would or would not have done anything. ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “The Ministry of the Interior stood against!” ) The Ministry of the Interior could not oppose! So absolutely I represent the Ministry of the Interior, and I would like to hear the person against the Ministry of the Interior. ( From the medicine, “Do not talk to the medicine! ” ) So I have no objections. I would like to remind you once again: the jurisdiction of the court is to establish a specific legal fact! And so don't bother the next possible critics... I would, however, call... And one more question really does relate to what Mr Adamson stressed: that terrorism is now the greatest threat that we have. It's not like we're doing anything! But perhaps less widespread terrorism is precisely in the field of Islam, because national security authorities regularly report this by referring specifically to the level of problems and terrorist threats at European level. And for the moment I want to assure you that we have no reason for immediate serious concerns about the fact that we will have a threat of Islamic terrorism in the country. On the other hand, if we are really talking about the rapid response forces, about what we need in this geopolitical situation, it is not only at European level... We, the three home affairs ministers - the Latvian, Lithuanian and Estonian home affairs ministers - have agreed on the creation of a common rapid response force specifically for the prevention of internal security threats. I therefore believe that, in general, this government declaration, which has been drawn up, is to be welcomed, and I call on my fellow Members to support this government. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U41	Thank you. Mr Janis Dombrava, next to the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U42	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Saeima! Since I worked in the Saeima, this is the fourth government that I will vote on. This is so far the best declaration, which I must admit is not perfect but good. Mr Adamson expressed his extensive criticism of the fact that there was nothing in the declaration for young people. It is worth looking at the government's goal! I quote: “The aim of the government’s work is to increase the well-being and belonging of every family and population to Latvia, so that the Latvian lifestyle becomes an essential part of everyday life. This will be achieved through rapid but sustainable economic growth, rooted in greater employment and productivity growth in every performance. Let us build Latvia as the most friendly country for families and children.” If we manage to increase people's belongings, sense of belonging to Latvia, if we manage to increase the welfare of every family, then it will be the best work for Latvian future generations to live in Latvia and develop our country. With regard to the criticisms about stagnation, I would like to ask Mr Adamson: how do you explain the fact that there are the highest numbers of emigrants in just a number of municipalities and districts run by SASKA, where SASKA has the highest results in parliamentary elections, and there is the greatest economic stagnation (the intersects of members from the grass: “It’s not true!” ), are there enormous problems of alcoholism, unemployment and poverty? In recent years, government parties have done more for the socio-economic and cultural development of these Latgale municipalities than your party has done for many, many years! With regard to the isolation of the SPIRIT from the government. You have done this yourself through your own actions in support of multilingualism, "United Russia" and so on. I would like to agree with some of the constructive criticisms expressed by the opposition. Nobody is perfect or all-powerful, so I hope that every member of the Saeima will help to solve problems that are important for Latvia's development. For example, Mrs Šimfas rightly pointed out that information should be collected at the level of the parish in order to effectively reduce regional inequalities. I hope that not only the government, but the whole Saeima will work for the next four years so that after four years people will live in even better and even safer Latvia. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U43	Thank you. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U44	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister! Ministers! Colleagues! It must be acknowledged that, in reading the Government Declaration and listening to the debates that are being held here, such cautious optimism, cautiousness, because, however, the government has taken on very, I would even say, bold and ambitious objectives. Contrary to what has been said here, in the absence of specifics, on the contrary, there is concreteness! And maybe even too big! In particular, I would like to highlight three indicators. Gross domestic product - 5 per cent (average) per year. It should be borne in mind that currently the forecasts are below 3 percent, but the geopolitical situation is not the best, but, of course, with a great deal of work it is possible to achieve this goal. So that 5 percent - if you succeed, it'll be very good! The other thing. Investment in R & D - 1.2 percent of gross domestic product. In fact, this is one of our most fundamental economic problems that, speaking in the words of the President of the Bank of Latvia, Mr Rimšēvičs, we are making saunas, but in order to become richer, we still have to make more complex products. And if I'm not mistaken, now this percentage is under... time about 0.5, so this is actually also a very ambitious goal, and if it succeeds, it will be a significant step towards Latvia's growth. And finally. Tax revenue: one third of gross domestic product. So actually, if today we're collecting over... about 27 percent... And a further reduction in personal income tax is planned for the next two years, and we do not plan to increase other taxes. In fact, the only way to meet our needs in defence, education, medicine and other priorities is actually the only way! - is the fight against the shadow economy. Contrary to the criticism expressed about the lack of specificity and a lack of courage, on the contrary! - this Declaration of Government sets very specific goals, very concrete steps, and gives God to really succeed in achieving them! For optimism. Why is optimism taking hold? Listening to the debate, it must be admitted that our opposition has been supplemented here by such highly competent people. On the other hand, when I listen to the speeches, I want to highlight two. First of all, I want to highlight Mrs. Silver's speech, which was very slow, very much put in its points, but unfortunately, I am not left with the feeling that I had heard this speech already... Either, at least several times, several years in a row, so in fact this was still the speech of the Auditor General. But, of course, it takes time to enter the other from one post. So you can understand that. The second was what Mr Bondara said: a person who has studied in very good schools. If, on the declaration, his only objection is that there is not grammatically correct everything written, then in fact it is complimentary, and I think we can forgive the declaration that there are some errors there. In fact, I would like to wish the Prime Minister: good luck! Let enough force pass through the Latvian Presidency of the European Union and achieve these actually ambitious goals or at least move towards them. And so, good luck! I call on you to support this government. Thank you. ( A Pleasure of Unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U45	Thank you. The next name is Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U46	Hello, dear colleagues! Well, since the declaration was only made yesterday and there was no time to get to know it and look more at some of the topics, I'm so on a quick hand... I'll talk to you about what I can do... and about what is in my heart. For example, in the introduction it is written that the number of healthy life years of Latvian residents in 2017 will reach 56 years for men and 60 years for women. I was very familiar with what was approved by the Ministry of Health - the Health Renewing Programme. There are, of course, many programmes, and it was also received, if I am not mistaken, EUR 5 million from the European Union, but unfortunately, this programme somehow went not there and money to extend that really healthy lifestyle - we did not receive it... But since we are all almost half of the Members, we've been over 50 years... in that sense, we in half of the Members are, well, not quite in the energy zone already... that we are not so productive that it works, then it surprises me. And that means that if our state institutions found it, then not only the Ministry of Health, but all ministers need to work hard to extend this energy lifestyle - the sooner, the better, but the better, the words like "let's do, let's build, let's develop, let's support, let's make, let's make, let's make, let's make, let's make, let's ensure" are in every declaration... And when I was studying, I just looked at it and thought, ‘ Why has it not yet been done? Why not? What did you do before?" Because there are problems! If we are talking about the Ministry of the Interior, the problem is that very little pay for the police is... that very poor job security is also... And now it is written in a declaration that, yes, let's build up, let's improve... We'll create good conditions for jobs... But the police are working! Why not? Not to mention fire-fighters... I will also touch a sector in which I work and I understand something... I'm a science doctor in pedagogy. For example, the Education, Science and Innovation, Sport. Paragraph 30 states: “We shall implement measures for the transition to compulsory secondary education, whether general or vocational.” I've finished my vocational school myself. It was the eleventh... the best vocational school in Latvia in those years! I would like to remind you - and you who are here also remember very well - that already in the 1970s, I think, in the middle of them, even during the Latvian SSR, the entire USSR assumed that we had mandatory secondary education. We went... Where that connection with the seventies disappeared, I don't know. How can we now have a goal that is self-evident: that there is a need for educated people in the country? And if you write in point 33 that we will improve the attractiveness of vocational education and the work of schools, then I'm surprised, for example, that the Ministry of Education and Science sometime in spring, when deciding to reorganize, for example, the Limbaži vocational school and add it to the Riga State techniques... For those who do not know, I would like to say that the Limbaži vocational school is located 88 kilometres from Riga, while the Riga State Technical School is 200 metres from the Saeima building. How can one delegate, for example, the Limbaži vocational school to Riga State Technical School if five more vocational schools in Riga are added to the Riga State Technical School? I don't understand that, but... When I visited my vocational school and said: “You are preparing future employees for “Latvian Railways”, but do you have any contract with “Latvian Railways”?” They say, “No, we don’t!” “ But did he? But the aid is in some project?” “Yes, 100 lats.” ( Then there were other lats.) “100 lats was given to us as help!” Well, “Latvijas Dzelzceļš”... You don't have to talk about what amounts of money will change there, but for a vocational school that prepares employees directly... And the railways in Latvia will always be needed! I remember, when I studied in 1975... When I entered, we already had pictures that had a high-speed train -- how does it look like we can drive at 250 kilometers. That was the goal! If we are also talking about sport, maybe the next Minister, Mārīte, will have an interest in sport or not? We do not do anything with the education and science ministers, because they don't like sport at all. And if we write here that we will improve the regulatory framework for the sport sector, we will set up sports management reforms, I would like to remind you of one reform implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science in 2008: when we had a Sports Administration, where 35 employees were employed, the Cabinet of Ministers decided that it should be reduced to 17 employees, but while all came from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Ministry of Education and Science, only two accountants were employed in the sport sector, and everything. Those employees who are now - five people - can't pull it all! Do you need to create... Well, you're not going to set up a new ministry, but then you need to at least improve their work, maybe at least five more employees, so that sport is much more effective. We are talking here about national defence. Of course, young people are needed to protect us. I think the Minister of Defence will agree to this. Yes, two million or more for the New Guard will be foreseen in the next year's budget. That is very good. But what to do with others... Is that so? Only those 500 or 1000 people are not enough to protect Latvia. We all need to be prepared to protect our country. If we are talking here about the Minister for Health... Paragraph 100 says here: “We will reduce the prevalence of harmful products and habits, using tax instruments to reduce alcohol and tobacco consumption and to limit the availability of addictive substances.” We had been formed in the Saeima for a very long time, for a year, a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption, even a working group was formed, but when the draft law came to this house until the Saeima meeting, Members did not particularly support the proposals that had been prepared. And, as I have already pointed out here from this gallery, there are, in the very center of Riga, in the corner of Čaka and Matīss Street, seven places where you can buy alcohol. And it's next to school! So it's still... And the casino there is. So... I'm coming back to the national... and culture and sports... due to renovation of the Culture and Sports Centre “Daugavas stadium”. Well, we must have been talking for three years about whether you need or not... That we really need... We even called the “Daugava stadium” a cultural and sporting object, but there is still a problem there. We wanted to attract European money, but it failed. We had a ready-made project that we would build the Muryan Sports Internet School for 9 million euros of athletic manners, which will be the only one in Latvia. No, we need money for “Daugava stadium”! But still we have not received an answer to the question whether or not there will be a stadium. This is a very serious topic - not only for cultural events, but also for sport. And to show all the young people that we have a modern stadium, where we may even have a race about the world's cup in athletics. So I call on you to think further about this Declaration of Government. Maybe you'll be ready to fix something in it and return it a month later. But I would like to say: I will not support this government, however. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U47	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U48	Dear colleagues, To be honest, I have been reading this declaration with quite shared feelings. On the one hand, it is indeed very welcome that, at last, the parties that have been leading the country for several years have noticed that we have very serious social problems. Their commitment to tackling social inequalities, their health problems can indeed only be supported and congratulated. But there is a serious question: But how will you do that? I do, of course, agree with Mr Kozlovsky: it is not an action plan, but we could expect not only those beautiful goals, but at least some common guidelines, one way in which you will take action to address such problems. Thank you to Mrs Chiganne for reminding her about the measures that have already been taken and about those that are planned to be taken to raise the lowest wages. That is also very welcome, but it is just one of the factors of inequality, and I would say that it is not the most crucial, as pensions, for example. And when I read the points of the declaration on pensions, to be honest, it appears that they are written by Mr Rinkēvičs, because they are worded in a very diplomatic language: "Let us ensure the stability and sustainability of the pension system by maintaining the level of social contributions at least at the present level." Then I have a question: do you think that the current level of social contributions is sufficient to ensure that the pension system is stable and sustainable? I have very much doubts about this because, above all, not the level of social contributions is critical, but the main problem is that the base is falling... that, as a result of emigration and depopulation, fewer and fewer people make these social contributions and that more and more people pay them for pensions. And there's that problem of imbalance! How do you want to solve such problems? And how can we vote in favour of your government if we have no idea about your plans in this most important area? Health. It is now a great pleasure to read point 102: "We will gradually increase public budget funding for health care." What do you mean, gradually? And here we all know that one-tenths and one-hundredths can argue about it, but overall, we have one and a half times lower health funding than in neighbouring countries - Lithuania and Estonia - and almost twice as much as in most of the old Member States of the European Union. How and by what means do you want to compensate for this, and do you want to do so at all? Because here is a whole series of points that mention perhaps important things, but which cannot in any case be decisive in ensuring access to health. Here, too, I would like to see a very clear strategic vision so that I can decide whether or not to support your Government. So far I see only the problem and the desire to tackle it. The second moment, which is also of very serious concern, is regional development. Relations between government and municipalities, as well as between the state budget and municipal budgets, are quite a serious problem. And here, thank you for your clarity. - In paragraph 44, I read: “By making further changes to tax policy that reduce income from personal income tax in municipal budgets, let us compensate for the reduction in labour taxes for local governments.” So thank you for your openness - you will continue to cut down the main and actually the only source of municipal revenue. You will continue to redistribute revenue in favour of the state budget by deducting funds from the municipal budgets. At the same time, municipalities are becoming increasingly subject to new obligations in the field of social protection. It was the municipalities that brought a very large part of the burden... I would say, even the main burden in the fight against the crisis. Mr Dombrovskis can write books and receive orders for overcoming the crisis, but we know who paid for it. And it was really local governments first and foremost. But now you say no... that you will not review the decisions taken in 2009 when the state budget took away responsibility for a whole range of social functions, when the state budget grants for public transport and so on were cancelled. I'm not going to list it all! You now openly say that you will continue to withdraw money from the municipalities and then compensate for it. Now let's speak the open language! We all know, after all, that the leaders of many municipalities have been elected to the Saeima, both as part of coalition parties and as part of opposition parties. We all know that they will compensate, yes, primarily for their own or only for their own. If the head of the municipality is in the ‘right’ lot, that municipality can expect these compensations. And when I read this declaration, I can conclude that you will continue with the same policy, because nothing else is recorded here. Minimum income guaranteed. Your Government has just adopted this concept, which in my view is very positive. There are a lot of open questions there. And the key issue remains that implementation of this concept makes a very important additional commitment to municipalities. What means will this be compensated for by municipalities? Where will municipalities take money to implement this concept of guaranteed minimum income that you have adopted? In this declaration, I do not see the answer. Dear colleagues, You will have to implement this declaration. And we're talking about all these problems now, not to bite a coalition into something there because of emotions... because we are not called to government. We care about the country's problems! And the problems that Mr Pimenova and other colleagues have been talking about are real problems! And I am absolutely sure that, without our help, without our support, you will not be able to resolve them. Of course, in view of all the above, I cannot support this government. I very much hope that you will succeed, but I have very great doubts about this. Thank you. ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U49	Thank you. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U50	Madam President, Dear colleagues, When I listen to the speeches of those of my fellow Members who are from the position, it seems that a better document on this is not prepared. However, when I listen to the other side - the opposition - it seems to be a very bad document. Well, art usually says this: if there are two diametrically opposite opinions, then there is some rational grain. I think the creation of an ideal document is practically impossible and very nice that there are differences of opinion. I would ask you to listen to these points of view and draw the right conclusions, because our task is to improve the country as a whole - the whole society, so to speak, from childhood to old age. And my vision when I read this document is this: if we do all this in four years, as the government now promises, then we will be ahead of all the leading countries in Europe. I have a specific proposal. Because the declaration is very large, I will only talk about education. And I want to highlight two moments. It may be possible to incorporate them or pay more attention to them. As regards education, science and those other innovations - this is also mentioned here - will be done by the Ministry of Education and Science, and it is a pity that no point that is in this section is talking about the need to finally arrange the Ministry of Education and Science to the level that will be able to implement all these things that you have developed and mentioned in life. For more than 20 years, we are just talking about the need for education. I very much call on you to start with the Ministry, to create a workable collective with a very... develop criteria for these employees who there come to work and do this job for them to professionally perform their task. That's the first one. I would not want you to put an emphasis on this: building another agency. Most of the agencies in Latvia have unfortunately shown that they are unable to perform their functions at the level required. We need to look at universities. Let us look for a different way - and there are other options - rather than establishing one again - the National Agency for Accreditation of Higher Education! I think you should think about it. I think we have enough excellent academics, the people of the Academy of Sciences, university professors at global level who could assess the potential of our universities together with foreign specialists. Well, why do we have to set up one agency again? And who's going to work there? The same ones that could set up a commission in a much shorter time and develop... ( From the drug depot. J.Kursīte-Pakule.) That's my opinion. In paragraph 38, you have the following text: “Let’s develop higher education and science... “ and so on, which talks about universities. I think that there should first be a return to funding that was taken away by universities in 2009. Return to the situation in which the training plans were developed. At that time, we saw that we reduced both the scope and the funding for university teachers by about 40 percent. I think it is necessary first of all to return this funding to that level and then, in a planned way, to further development in order to reach a higher level. Why am I talking like that? Because our National Symphony Orchestra conductor and artistic director, Mr Poga, has just said that there will be a shortage of professional performers in Latvia and that the orchestra will need to be supplemented with Korean, Chinese, Japanese or European musicians. I think that does not make Latvia honour. And that's... Within five years, there are already the first signs that we cannot prepare the necessary quality performers in individual groups. I think that is something that needs to be taken very seriously because the curricula have been reduced. I personally led the Music Teachers' Unit and I am very well able to quantify you if this does not convince you yet, to demonstrate how many hours of contact hours have been reduced, how many hours of group hours have been reduced. And that gives us the result that we start to talk about something that's missing. I call for the views to be heard and for the necessary conclusions to be drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U51	Thank you. Mr Nikiforov, Member of the European Parliament, came forward in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U52	Hello, colleagues! I will only talk about two aspects of the declaration, namely demographics and education. Only four points have been devoted to demographics in the declaration. For example, point 116: “We will significantly expand State aid to large families.” But when do we do that? This has already been seen in the previous declaration and even before. Maybe it's said in other words, but it's the same thing. Every time... You see, I already think that it is demographics that is the biggest threat to us, because demographic issues are also security issues. And I think they're much more important than tanks and missiles, because people are the ones that make up the state. And at the same time, people and demographic issues are also a guarantee of security. So, I think, demographic issues and problems are much broader than the issues contained in the Government Declaration. And it's not enough here with four points. As far as education is concerned, I believe that education is the tool by which we can achieve a better standard of living here, because education is the only way of transferring skills and knowledge from one generation to another. And again: education is a guarantee of security, because educated people understand what they are doing and they predict what their results will be. When it comes to education, we are once again opening a declaration and reading... Declaration No 34: ‘Let's create a National Agency for Higher Education Accreditation’, already mentioned by the previous speaker. This issue has already been resolved by the Minister of Education and Science Kielis, and then it has continued to be done by a fellow minister of Unity, Minister Druviete. And we have now come to this point so far that we do not have in the country the authority responsible for accreditation... university accreditation. This is not done by the Council for Higher Education, it is not done by the State Education Content Centre - no one does it! Basically... I am sorry, but basically Bologna standards jeopardise the recognition of our diplomas in other countries. How long can that be done? We have been dealing with this for three years. This is indeed an acute issue in the education sector. Well, my fellow Members, it is perhaps time that we finally did not make empty promises, but to start with concrete things, something that I mentioned here. We haven't worked for three years, maybe we have to deal with someone else. I call on you to vote against the Government and Government Declaration. ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U53	The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U54	If some of the founders of the government believe that it is not appropriate to talk from this troupe about non-compliance with the Constitution, about ignoring the law or about matters of values - well, then I am also prepared to say a few questions about the declaration in particular. And maybe the issues that Mr. Chersch mentioned. Let's start with the first one. The first is on their GDP growth. I will read you a text and ask you to understand what is then really said in this sentence: “The average annual GDP growth per capita in the next three years will reach 5 percent.” It's going to reach 5 percent in three years? Every year? After three years? When will those 5 percent of the population come in? More! More! If this sentence provides that it is an increase in GDP per capita, then it means that the departure of the population by nature does not bother us - the more we go, the greater the increase. Last year, we lost as many inhabitants in Latvia as we lived in such a city as Valmiera, Mr. Boķ! ( From the drug depot. I.Boķis: “Everyone left in Valmiera!” ) That is not acceptable! The second question Mr. Chersch mentioned... the specific issue was that tax revenues would increase by one third. As he rightly mentioned, now about 26 or 27 percent of the gross national product is taxed. To increase their volume by one third - this means that... In my view, this is a hidden way that the government says it will raise taxes. ( From the drug depot. A.Loskutov: “Demagogy!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U55	Thank you. The next speaker is Member Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U56	Everything's bad! Right, Mr. Bondar? And, look, I know how to make a declaration good with one brush cancer. In that list of ministers, the name of Mr. Liepiņš is to be entered next to the position of the Minister of Transport, and then the declaration will suddenly become easy to understand, easy to perceive and, above all, extremely concrete! ( Ambush the coalition.) Depp. A.Loskutov: “Right!” ) What would I like to say with that? Dear colleagues, I must have seen many declarations in the Saeima in eight years. This declaration is probably neither worse nor better than the previous one. The opposition is doing its job - I must say, it is doing its job very well, surprisingly good! And I hope that... The main thing is how this declaration will be completed. And I very much hope that this declaration will be fulfilled and that perhaps after four years many of the points in the declaration will no longer be relevant. We're not sitting... every group in its own cage, however, we are all sitting on a single big boat at the moment, and all of us - both in the position and in the opposition - have to make sure that this ship is moving forward, and I think that this government, which we will definitely approve, must be a success. We all have to wish this government luck, because we all sit on the same boat. Not wanting success for this government - that means not wanting good for that country. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U57	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Siliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U58	Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that, for the first time, I see the Declaration by the Government, which points to the welfare of the people and their growth as its ultimate goal. So far we have heard more about the success story, about the economic breakthrough and so on. Speaking specifically about issues that are of interest to at least a quarter of Latvia's population, that is, pensioners, it should be said that, first of all, it is a social budget. And I am very pleased that the Government Declaration has made a commitment to maintain the insurance rates that have been in place until today, which enable savings to be made and which are sufficient to ensure not only the stability of this social security but also to address perhaps small but yet pleasant issues for the large family of pensioners. I am therefore very grateful that, separately from these issues, we have found a place in the declaration. And above all, these are issues that prevent discrimination based on birth data for a whole line of pensioners. There is a mistake that needs to be recognised, and it needs to be corrected urgently. Secondly, the majority of pensioners look forward to an improvement in the pension indexation mechanism, as indexation will, however, make a greater contribution to each of the pensions, but especially to the small pensions. Of course, it is also a pleasure that this Government Declaration pays enough attention to health protection, and I want to inform Members, because perhaps not everyone knows that the studies carried out at the beginning of this year by social research centres were entirely officially carried out... organisations show that almost a quarter of pensioners cannot take care of their health because they do not have enough resources at their disposal. I very much hope that this issue will, however, get some solution in the near future. Last but not least, one proposal that I would like to propose to the government to be approved today, ministers, to present, as soon as possible, a very concrete plan of measures, which is in line with what was stated in the Government Declaration, to each of the parliamentary committees responsible. In addition, it would be a great pleasure for Members not only to see specific issues, but to agree these issues with the Ministry of Finance and to indicate concrete dates for their implementation. I call on Members to vote in favour of the composition of this government. Thank you. ( Some members of the ZZS are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U60	Hello, dear colleagues! We have listened to many of the opposition's criticisms, but we want to believe that a large part of them also comes from ignorance, because many of these concrete actions mentioned will find a reflection of the government's action plan, which must be ready within a month. And I believe that it will! And some of them will already be able to produce results in the next year's budget. However, one thing I want to say. I have always considered Mr. Adamson to be a professional, but I would like to mind the scene of the apocalypse in the Latvian defence system. Of course, the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the National Armed Forces has been left rather neglected in recent years. And that was also because there was little money and money was needed for other purposes, but partly because there was no real threat. Now there is a real threat and, as strange as it may be, it comes exactly from a country with which Mr. Adamson's party has a Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Love. So, unfortunately, we will have to find this money, and the Ministry of Defence has already predicted a rather significant budget increase next year, and over a few years, I believe, we will also reach these 2 per cent that we have promised our NATO partners. As regards defence planning as such, I can reveal a very great secret: our country indeed has a very carefully prepared national defence plan, which is still being developed according to what our new geopolitical threats are. This is a plan of very high secrecy, and unfortunately only people with the highest level of tolerance to state secrecy can get acquainted with it. And I regret to say that a number of gentlemen who have spoken about defence here from the tribunal have no such tolerance and that the plan to read to them is not decided upon. So that one another's theme here apparently was at the level of more guess. ( From the drug depot. I.Klementyev's intermediate names.) However, I call for support for this government because, as Ingmars Līdaka said, we do not want to sit on a single boat, however. And the heat over the boat often ends with the whole boat overturning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U61	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U62	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Dear Members, I, the President of the Group, would like to use my right after our group Members have demonstrated to all those present, including you, Madam Prime Minister, that we have soon come to know not only the programmes of your party, the coalition party, the pre-election promises, and the campaign of pre-election, which, by the way, took place on the last day of the forbidden, but also the Government declaration. That is what we have demonstrated! It is unlikely, but I hope that you will also have heard something from it... from the good, positive advice that has also been given by Members of our group. This introduction allows me to wish you luck. I personally call upon you to prove that there are false rumours that are currently walking through the Saeima - that you are once again placed in order to warm the place for the next or next Prime Minister; as well as the changes of the Bureau are already being discussed and being drawn “lekal”... I call on you to prove that this is not true. I think it would be under your honor and also under your leadership by the ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers - to be the heating room for the next government. Good luck! ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U63	The next debate was opened by Member Imants Krādnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U64	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, colleagues! Is the Government Declaration perfect? Not close! Could it be written much better? Of course! We can also do more and better in our lives. But the debate that is going on here is quite specific. Mr. Adamson started with the Latvian folk belief: “As you will see the New Year, you will spend the whole year.” You know, we can be proud that Eldara Rjazanova's film quotes Latvian folk belief! In the film “Bad irony” or “A Light Spirit!” one of the characters says exactly this Latvian people - it turns out! - faith. But I'd rather think that you, Mr. Adamson, weren't in that environment. You must begin to imagine that the mystery of Soviet times is the roots of the Latvian nation. That's not the case! And when you want to understand what the beliefs of the Latvian people are, take other books - not those that are offered to you on the left flank. Wait and then you will understand! I would like to expect this constructive approach from the opposition. Well, we have a special debate on the SAMAN approach, but even from the Association of the Regions of Latvia, Mr Bondara, I loved your pre-election debate very much, and I think that my colleagues are exactly the same, because even Mr Zīle pressed your hand. Your motto was: “On the open language!” When you're at the pub, I really listened carefully because I think I'm gonna hear something like that... that Mr Bondara will come and tell you everything he does. I realized I didn't understand anything, because you said it was more vague than you could understand... that something is not actually correctly written in the declaration. Is Spelling there? Which minister said something wrong last night? I don't watch all the transmissions, I don't follow them. Would have said: this Minister specifically couldn't answer for such a case, and then get to work with your Cabinet! What exactly was that about the question you wanted to answer? What question? Are we closer to the East or the West? I thought, “There will now be a revelation, and I will reveal something for myself.” No, next question followed! If the people's elected president were, would you be nominated? How do I know that, and do you know that? And then these puzzles! They do not in any way demonstrate a constructive approach, but even less an open language. And that is what I am calling you to. However, I will keep a little bit in mind what marked this specific discussion, as I said, in particular. When Mrs Lochmele-Lunova said that their constituents were excluded from social life, I thought, God protects! Who is elected and how is excluded? ( From the drug depot. R.Ločmeles-Lunovo intersage.) How has this happened? Is it really the increase in parental benefit that was taken here in this hall during the previous Saeima, someone... What social group is being divided? Or the child care allowance is paid in some way, I don't know whether it's ethnically or under a passport stamp... or by how you have or have not voted and yet, don't give to God for whom... I am referring specifically to the Government Declaration... on the approach of the Government Declaration, how the opposition can work constructively not only to implement the Government Declaration, but also the future action plan, as other opposition representatives have also pointed out: if much or all of what is written there were to be fulfilled, we would be ahead of all other European countries. Well, then we'll work in this direction, but it's all... Another characteristic... Mr. Elksniņš' speech was probably the most characteristic. Then when he asked, “Are you going to have five minutes?” Mr. Elksniņš was more important to be able to express his opinion before the break, because the cameras were more at that moment and then can be revealed after a full program. And it's okay that after that he started as such a young girl: another minute... One more! ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “We need to talk about the declaration!” ) Can I say a little more? As if the Speaker of the Saeima had allowed... You know, it's a special feature of your political power: to come forward: to say one first and then not to implement it constructively, but to strive for some further improvements. ‘ What if we acknowledge the occupation, can we?’ - “No, you can’t!” “ When can we do that? Is it when we're gone? — Noise in the hall. an agreement with "United Russia"? So can we already?’ You can't do that again. We can do it when you hold on to it as “a man and a word” above all... When you understand what the real order of things is, and when you, regardless of who has written this Government Declaration, if there are good things in there, you will stand up for them and not talk foolishness. Thank you. ( A Pleasure of Unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U65	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U66	Dear colleagues, this kind of debate, approving the government or talking about government declarations, is a normal parliamentary practice. Naturally, naively, it would be expected that, let us say, the members of the ruling coalition will call on them not to support the government and the declaration and that the opposition will act differently... This would be contrary to parliamentary traditions. But in parliamentary traditions, in European parliamentary traditions, there has never been a transition to personalities. That is what I would also like to say to Mr Debtor. (Applause) We can talk about the substance. You can talk about it - like it or don't like it, because the role of the opposition is - to apologize to me Ingmar! - the role of the pike in the pond: to make sure that the carousas, in this case the ministers led by Mrs Straujuma, do not lie still. It's normal! But there are three things I would like to draw attention to. First thing. In the very first sentence of the Declaration of Government, it is noted that this will be the government that will continue to do so by the previous governments. Very good! What started by the previous government is recorded in the declaration of the previous government. If the new government were to continue with the old governments by composition and by tradition, it would be logical, by all means, to note the innovativeness of its declaration and to place an emphasis on those things that appear on the whole of the previous or have been changed - without those mentioned in the previous declaration. One point. Two points. You see, unfortunately, we are not in a very normal situation... We are talking about the substance, because we are all interested in people's well-being, in the development of the country; no one is against it here. It was in all the pre-election promises, it was for any political power. We may have different views and perceptions on how to achieve their goal, but the way to do so is the subject of discussion. Parliamentary discussions are a good thing, but there are other ways and other mechanisms without them. I would warmly advise the government to think about how to attract, at the level of preparation, its constructive or destructive ideas, but yet those that sound in opposition, working on concrete action plans, on solutions, and so on. And the third. This, naturally, does not rule out the most important thing. Because the opposition can be criticised, can be proposed, the position can be accepted or rejected, but responsibility for what needs to be done, what has been done and what will not be done, but is on the shoulders of the government, on the shoulders of people who support it unequivocally and without correction. I call for work to be really constructive and to think about the interests of the people, about the interests of the country, not about some narrow ambitions of the parties. And then we can really move forward and achieve what we all want. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U67	Thank you. The name to Member Vilnius Chersim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U68	Madam President, Colleagues! Thank you, Mr Bondara, for responding to my instructions. You've really learned the theory very well. Indeed, per capita gross domestic product... This value can indeed be increased in two ways: by raising income or reducing the population. Yes, that is really accurate! I do not know what the position your party may have in increasing this indicator is, but the coalition still sees an increase in income. And if that were not the case, then it would hardly be possible to spend the resources and put measures in this very Government Declaration... including measures to increase the birth rate, various re-migration measures. ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “In 2012!” ) On the other hand, this tax increase... You said that I had said that it was planned to raise taxes by one third. Okey, maybe I won't be suspicious enough and maybe you won't listen to me, but then at least you could read the declaration... It is clear and light-black to white that we will ensure that taxation can be increased by moving towards a one-third level of tax revenue on gross domestic product. The aim is therefore not to raise taxes by one third, but to increase the chargeableness of up to one third of gross domestic product. It is therefore planned to increase from the existing 27 percent by 33,3 percent, so in fact, by six percentage points. And this can only be done at the expense of reducing the shadow economy, which we also intend to do. So please, if you might like it, then maybe this one third of the action plan could be replaced by an interest that does not change the substance, but then you might finally... That's what you'll like. So, please, talk about the matter. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. U. Plant closes.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U69	Thank you. Member Arturs Kaimiņš took part in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U70	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, honourable Members of the Saeima! Hello! ( From the drug: “Hello! Hello!” ) I have one question. Total elemental. I will try to speak in the shortest possible way, as has been said here today. So, who will be able to explain to me what it means to say in Latvian at the introduction of the declaration “the income inequality will decrease, with the aggregate income inequality S80/S20 index reaching 5.4 in 2017”... I'll call you a coffee today. Please! ( The grass is laughter, the mercera.) So... Yeah, yeah, yeah, I got it! Madam President of the Saeima. If there is a noise in the sitting, the head of the sitting may call the hammer strikes. ( From the drug depot. J. Reirs: “Don’t talk to the Bureau!” ) Then the other thing. State security. 2 per cent of GDP. In the declaration is the year 2020, LRA has offered it already by 2018. This can actually be done. So it's 2020. Taxation here is mentioned in the declaration that there will also be taxes at the top of us. Nothing about health care. It's not primary. Health care!... Still... You're acting like that here... something for each other... If you want to talk to each other, you have phone numbers, you can send text messages or call! You don't have to come to the bar and talk like this... in particular, to each other. It doesn't mean this thing! I accidentally looked on the right... ( On the right hand there is a Group Unity.) Let's go! So state security is the last place at the moment. It is 2020 by declaration - that is, six years later. It is currently November 5, 2014. As well as once again, I join Mr. Liepiņš from the LRA in the vision of the country as it is. I don't see it, I don't understand, I'm kind of in here... “Kular” is a good name! I heard in the culuares that there would be new technologies. I do not understand now: "new" technologies or "new" technologies? How Miracles Are Doing Miracles! Then I have another question, or rather rhetoric, about the fact that it looks like this Cabinet is now... ( Milestones.) everyone is in favour and so on... Only because we are now holding the Presidency of the European Union and now need us to look well at it. The neighbor shall vote against. Thank you. ( Audience of the members of the LRA.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U71	Thank you. Member Ivars Zarins took part in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U72	(From the drug depot. D.Reizniece-Ozola: “Ivar, explain!” ) I listen, my fellow Members, to the debate and to the clumsy memory of the ancient times that I liked to call upon the Master of the Debt, when a popular satiric spoke and told me a story about how a man returns home after a long recovery. He realizes that he needs to tell you something. ( From the hall: “What is the matter with the declaration? ” ) Once again... It's another time he's gone away and she's got to tell him where he's been and what he's done. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Personal experience?” ) And then the dialogue is that he understands - since it is not the first time - that something that he has not said needs to be thought out this time, but practically everything has already been said. And to his wife’s question, where he has been all this time, he says: “How? Don't you read the newspapers? I was in space!” My wife - she was prepared enough - says, “No, I’m reading the newspapers!” Distinguishing the newspaper and showing it to the husband. Here reads all the names of the cosmonauts and says, “You are not there!” He says: “Well, you understand! That's the situation for us: I did an important geopolitical task! I can't even be written about it. To be read between rows.’ She reads once again between rows and reads that there, in space, there were all kinds of microorganisms without these cosmonates. He quickly says: “Yes, yes, yes! It's for me!” Your wife tells him in return: “You know, only your financial opportunities are like a micro-organism!” There you go! ( From the hall A.Loskutov: “And now for the declaration! ” ) And here we come... It's about the same thing. This dialogue is very similar - about how the government is telling about her declaration and what she is going to do. If we look at what this fiscal opportunity for the government really is... The upcoming Finance Minister has said publicly that the fiscal space for new initiatives is zero. So, at the level of the micro-organism... Go on. If we read further between the rows that are then written in the declaration... Here colleagues have already touched this. I will bring this discussion to the end. GDP growth. Mr. Chersch, you loved to speak here very much. Have you seen at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission the draft budget for 2015, the budget that our government will present to Brussels? I assume you're not lying to Brussels, are you? It says: GDP growth is 2.8 percent... or 2.5 per cent. This will not increase in the coming years if you look at the approved medium-term budget. In your declaration, you write: 5 percent of the population... So if you don't lie to the people either now with your declaration, it means that we can read between rows that you expect our country to be seriously migratory in the coming years: people will leave, people will leave very many! So - either you confirm this fact, or you recognize now that you lie! There are only two options. The other thing about reading between rows. That's something that's already touched. On this tax burden. For those who do not know this: yes, at the moment, a really real tax burden, the average tax burden, if we take into account all tax revenues to GDP, is slightly over 27%. What we read in the declaration... This is about this third. Part three - that's more than 33 percent. The difference is estimated to be more than 6 per cent. In terms of tax revenues, this is more than 20 percent! Mr Chersch, do you know what the share of the shadow economy is? ( From the drug depot. V. Cherry's intermediates.) And how much have you managed to reduce it over these years? You write every year that it will be your priority to fight the shadow economy. That's a study in which... I took part, by the way, in Mrs Āboltiņa, when it was presented, and I saw all of this; it was presented that, during this last government, the proportion of the shadow economy has increased, not decreased. And even if you rejected it to zero, in no way can this increase in taxes be achieved. So the next conclusion, which is written in the Government Declaration, is that the country is expected to rise in taxes... Or - you're lying again. Once again you have the opportunity to choose... What, then, is this truth? Go on. If we read the Government Declaration, of course I cannot ignore the energy chapter. You know, I had serious concerns about what I was reading there, about how competent it was. There is talk about things that have been done a long time ago, say, about the possibility of ensuring free access to gas infrastructure - Inčukalns, pipelines. Let those who are not in the course know: already in April we adopted the necessary amendments to the law to make this third party approach possible! More! I can tell you that Lithuanians are already negotiating successfully with Latvijas Gas that gas will be stored there. But you write it in your declaration - that you will fight for it, you will try to do it! At the same time, in the declaration, you are not saying anything about when there will be this compensation mechanism after the liberalisation of the electricity market. Maybe you're not in the course, but there's no such mechanism yet. What you have done: only a temporary solution has been found for one year, putting it on the “Lavenergo” shoulders. So, again... If I read between the rows that are written there, then... Thus, either you are not going to do it at all, or you have written between the rows that this government will not last beyond the next year. Because this issue has been resolved for a year. So a great deal can be read between reading rows. More! If you read this document, you feel that the government does not even know what this declaration is written in large numbers; that it is written by someone else. A.Bērzins: “We must not say that!” ), which officials, e.g. from the Transparency Coordination Centre. Because really that lexicon, everything that's written there shows it. Mrs Strautuma, you are shaking your head, then perhaps you will tell us what about the productivity of the use of natural resources that you have recorded as one point, which says that it will be increased to EUR 540 per tonne?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. How big is it now? Ask, journalists, you're on site! Come out, ask the ministers if they're in the course of things about it. Or, for example, let us take a much simpler and more reasonable issue of labour productivity, which is intended to increase to 24 thousand per worker in the manufacturing sector. How big is it now? Ask the minister if he knows it at all, and you will find out that this whole declaration - it is simply, apologies, empty embarrassment. Brain powder again! I've been explaining for three years where the success story leads you and what it will end with. My words have been fulfilled, and now you see these fruits. And now you start to talk about what I have explained to you for three years, that no fiscal beauty will save our country, that the one who will make us... for our well-being, there are not beautiful fiscal numbers, but smart, enterprising and creative people. They are the builders of our prosperity! You took it for the elections as a slogan at last and began to say, “Let’s grow smart!” , but if we look at what is written in the declaration, then it is impossible to read anything from this wisdom there. More! What Mr. Chersch said is that the 1.2 percent of GDP recorded there will be for science and research... That this is a huge challenge... This is a huge challenge for the really existing budget, and you will not find it in any way there. So I can tell you how much it is from GDP in those countries that actually realise this smart knowledge economy. It's almost three times the number, so even that's the goal you're saying... that it is impossible, it is impossible, that it is a huge challenge... It is three times less than what you would really need to be able to fulfill your promises. You are talking about the fact that access to financial resources is very important. Indeed, this is the case, because all of this cannot be done without adequate financial resources. That is why there is nothing in this Declaration of Government about health. And I don't really admire the future Minister for Health with all his competence, with all his determination, with all his scope. Now I don't know how he can handle it... If only he is well aware that he will only be for a short time and that he will not have to answer for all these questions. Because, look, instead of really thinking... so that you can actually do what you're talking about... That's it! We have no other way! If intelligent, sensitive and creative people live here, our country has no future. We need to think about how we can finance all this. We also offered you a long-standing solution - that a development bank had to be made long ago, then... But what are you doing? You are looking for ways to really not be able to do so! And the last step is, of course, the sale of Citadele. Instead of fighting for the creation of a development bank through which we can finance all our development programmes, you have successfully sold it to speculators so that they can earn further and possibly create new irresolable now geopolitical risks with this deal. In brief: if you look at it, then you are happy for it, and you are sure that everything is very beautiful, that everything is very good. ( From the drug depot. A.Brigmanis: “Come home! That's enough!” ) Sorry, but it very much reminds us of the story of three sows... for one sow, who built his house from straw and rejoiced that he was able to build it faster than others. In reality, you are also doing this by destroying the real foundations necessary for sustainable development. It's about our science, about the infrastructure... on human capital. That way, nothing good can happen. And so, I think, if we look at what was written at the beginning of your declaration, that you have agreed to create a government that will continue the policy started by the previous government, then it is fair, because there is really nothing else to do. In principle, you could write the whole Declaration of Government in two words: nothing will change! And that's all it would be said. And it will not change because you have neither the understanding nor the ability to change anything. You yourself have become hostages to your economic course. The whole country has been turned into an ejected horse, and your only goal is to force the bulls to run past the audience’s truces and then to fall into mud with your face. That's all you can do! It is a pity that you have understood the mandate given by the people to you! Unfortunately! ( GREENSES are the plunder of Members.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U73	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U74	A special dedication to Mr. Neighbours... without coffee. What you asked... Well, a good tone would have looked at some elementary definitions and characteristics that you will have to work with over the next four years instead of demonstrating it from the triple. ( From the drug depot. A.Kimiņš: “Teach me!” ) But if there was no time because it had to be mounted, for example, yesterday's video, then... In short words, as the classic Mr. Zarins said, the sum of the Inequality Index S80/S20 describes the income ratio that 20 per cent of the most prosperous in society is in favour of 80 per cent of the poorest in the country. This is one of the key indicators of inequality. ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Aha!” ) And more. Mr. Neighbours, there is an inequality indicator called the Gini coefficient. And there will be a lot more to learn! There's also natural growth... and that's not what it is! I am ready if you are ready to listen and learn, without coffee or tea, for free, give you advice and consider it your art to develop the opposition work. Thank you. ( A Pleasure of Unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U75	Thank you. I closed the debate. The question is: does Mrs Straujuma want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U76	I would like to thank the coalition and the opposition for those proposals that were constructive, we will evaluate them. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U77	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Expression of Trust for the Cabinet of Ministers”! The Saeima decides to express its confidence in the Cabinet of Ministers in the following composition: Prime Minister - Laimdota Straujuma, Minister of Defence - Raimonds Vējonis, Minister of Foreign Affairs - Edgars Rinkēvičs, Minister of Economy - Dana Reizniece-Ozola, Minister of Finance - Jānis Reirs, Minister of the Interior - Rihards Kozlovskis, Minister of Education and Science - Mārīte Seile, Minister of Culture - Dace Melbārde, Minister of Welfare - Uldis Augulis, Minister of Transport - Anrijs Matīss, Minister of Justice - Dzintars Rasnačs, Minister of Health - Guntis Belēvičs, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - Kaspars Gerhards, Minister of Agriculture - Jānis Dūklavs. Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 61, against - 39, refrains - not. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to the Prime Minister to Lyme Straujuma and the newly elected Cabinet of Ministers! Late endurance and success carry out those important tasks recorded and confirmed in the Government Declaration! Registration of the presence of Members must be carried out. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, for notification the name to Ainars Latkovsky. Name for the announcement to Ainars Latkovsky!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U78	Members of the Interim Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, we will meet at 14.00!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U79	And I informed about the meeting of the Saeima Presidium and the Fraces Council of 5 November 2014, which will begin 15 minutes after the end of the extraordinary meeting of the Saeima on 5 November, and will take place in the Saeima Red Hall. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U80	At the end of the sitting you haven't registered: Maris Kučinskis... is in the hall, Aivars Maya... Yes, Ilmārs Debtor... Imants Debtor, I'm sorry... Yes, Andris Siliņš... Yes, Mārtiņš Schics... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-05-PT12-266-U81	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
