ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Dear colleagues, These days are a year since Zolitude's tragedy. I call for a moment of silence to commemorate the memory of the tragically dead. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Colleagues, let's start the 20th November sitting of the Saeima! Before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments to the agenda of the sitting are examined. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to include in the agenda the draft decision of the Saeima on the change of the commission for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society” (No2/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No 1148/Lp11) drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No. 1275/Lp11) drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No 324/Lp11), drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No 906/Lp11), drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission also asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No 1037/Lp11) drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. And this time the agenda is also being amended. On the other hand, Members Viļums, Ruks, Kleinberga, Vucāns, Kursīte and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Daiņa Liepiņš from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the approval of Juris Viļuma as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Do Members object to this amendment of the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson of the medicine: “Are they different documents?” ; dep. J.Urbanovich: “It’s the same document!” ) There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. So we start to look at the amended agenda for the sitting. On the draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Qatar on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informs that Ms. Daina Liepiņš has been asked to grant him unpaid leave on 20 November this year. The Bureau granted this leave and informed the Saeima about it. The next item is the agenda for unpaid leave granted to Mr Janis Kragas from 19 November to 25 November of this year. The Bureau of the Saeima shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request made by Member Jānis Klazdas to grant him unpaid leave from 19 November to 25 November of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item is "On 4 and 5 December of this year's appointment of Ms Inese Lībins-Egner". The Saeima Bureau informed that she had received a request from Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere to grant her unpaid leave on 4 and 5 December of this year. We must therefore vote in favour of granting this leave. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnerė! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made - leave has been granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Mežeckis, Andris Bērziņš, Spolitis, Dombrava, Kleinberga, Lejiņš and others have submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the Latvian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian Delegation and Deputy Head of the Baltic Assembly. Members Spolitis, Lejiņš, Gamuks, Mežulis, Adamsons, Debtor and others have submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the Latvian Delegation and Deputy Head of the Baltic Assembly”. Please call me! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is the approval by the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Members Šnore, Lejiņš, Dombrava, Sergeant, Spolitis and others have submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Latvian delegation to the Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe”. Please call me! Oh... Member Mārtiņš Bondars has come to the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U2	Madam President, Could I ask before we vote to find out what we are voting on - who is the leader and who is the deputy head? I didn't want anything else. ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP: “The decision must be read! ” “Read it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U3	The Saeima documents shall be accessible to all Members of the Saeima. So please call! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian Head of Delegation of the Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Thus Members Bergmanis, Bondars, Kiršteins, Kalniņš, Ivan Klementjevs and others have submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of Latvia”. Please call me! We will vote for the approval of the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian National Group of the Interparliamentary Union. So Members Mirskis, Āboltiņa, Dauge, Silver, Ilmārs Latkovskis and others submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the National Group of the Interparliamentary Union of Latvia”. Please call me! We will vote for the approval of the draft decision on the Interparliamentary Union Head of the Latvian National Group! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union. Thus, Members Kaimiņš, Šymfa, Andrejs Klementjevs, Spolitis, Mežeckis and others have submitted a draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union. Please call me! We will vote for the approval of the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. So the decision has been made. The draft decision of the Saeima “On the withdrawal of Daiņa Liepiņš from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly and the approval of Juris Viļuma as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly” has also been presented. So we must vote on each of these issues separately. First of all, it is necessary to vote in favour of the first part of the draft decision - the withdrawal of Daiņa Liepiņš from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson: “One decision is two votes?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Please call me! We will vote for the first part of the draft decision - on the withdrawal of Daiņa Liepiņš from the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. And now we will vote for the approval of Member Juris Viļuma as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. Please call me! Vote on the approval of Member Juris Viļuma as a member of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima". The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Property and on the Use of Privatisation Certificates”. Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) http: / /www. emea. europa. eu/. According to Article 39 of the Parliamentary Rules roll, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Completion of Privatisation of State and Local Government Property and Privatisation Certificates” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U4	Good morning, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Finalisation of Privatisation and Use of Privatisation Certificates of State and Municipal Property”. We worked with this bill at the 11th Saeima. The main idea why it was driven was that these amendments provided an opportunity for the Cabinet of Ministers or the municipal council to take a decision on the termination of privatisation of a state or municipal property or a non-building land, if privatisation rules or a privatisation project have been approved once or the auction has been announced once, but no applicant has applied to privatise the property. Well, there were other rules... In the Commission, we decided on this issue, and on behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be taken over on the agenda of the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U5	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Finalisation of Privatisation and Use of Privatisation Certificates of State and Local Authorities” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. So also the 12th Saeima is responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U6	Let us wait until 4 December of this year for proposals to be submitted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U7	So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on water services (Rule 39 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure). Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) http: / /www. emea. europa. eu/. According to Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on water services submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U8	Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy had discussions on the transposition of the draft law on water services. In general it can be said that this draft law addresses a number of important issues, both for service providers and for each municipality, in the exercise of the autonomous functions of the municipality in the field of utilities. There were some reservations from the new colleagues - from the Latvian Association of Regions - but in general, the Commission decided to proceed with this draft law at the 12th Saeima, with a slightly longer deadline for the submission of proposals so that it could also submit proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U9	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law on water management services in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. So also the 12th Saeima is responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U10	As I said before, the deadline for submitting proposals is slightly longer, and that is January 20 next year, 2015, so that everyone can be able to prepare and submit their proposals in this draft law. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “What year?” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U11	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2015. Thank you. The next item is the bill entitled ‘The Slītere National Park Law’. Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) http: / /www. emea. europa. eu/. Thus, according to Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima’s draft law on the Slītere National Park Law. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U12	Hello, dear colleagues! To your attention, the draft law “Law of Slītere National Park”. In two readings this draft law has been examined in the previous Saeima, and in practice this law specifies functional zones, their boundaries and the boundaries of the reserve itself, where the reserve is adjacent to the marine territory, because, as we know, a separate marine protected area has been established. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call for no obstacle to the further examination of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U13	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Slītere National Park Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima also remains this responsible commission? Members have no reservations. So also the 12th Saeima is responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U14	The Commission responsible will wait until 4 December. ( From the drug: “What year? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U15	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law. Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) http: / /www. emea. europa. eu/. Thus, according to Rule 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Members Schnore, Dzintars, Dombrava, Kols and Debtor are proposing to continue the examination of the 11th Draft Law on Amendments to the Immigration Law submitted to the Saeima. Member Edwin Schnore came up in the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U16	Dear Members, We encourage support for amendments to the Immigration Law, which states that residence permits in exchange for the acquisition of real estate in Latvia... that they should not be allocated to Russian citizens. Why is such a provision necessary? Because Russia has actually started a new foreign policy this year. It has put forward the concept of russkij or the concept of the Russian world at an official level, and on the basis of it it began to conquer European countries with the aim of defending Russian world members. There are many in Latvia, as we know. We have Russians here, Russians, Russian citizens, non-citizens... Finally, we have 20,000 former Russian army officers here. The percentage of Russia is not so much anywhere else in the world... Russians belong to the Russian world, as it is in Latvia. That is why international media and security experts unanimously point to Latvia as a fully real goal of Russian aggression in the future. By continuing to issue residence permits to Russian citizens, we literally play Russian roulette. We already have more than serious situations now, but we, speaking in illustrations, take Russia... Russian roulette revolutionarys and complement it with additional patrons, thus knowingly reducing your chances of survival. From the point of view of national security, it is absolutely insane and suicidal! Since Latvia is NATO, Russia is most likely not to fall here with tanks inside. The developments in Donbass show that local Russian-speaking people are being used to justify aggression. This means that there is no formal war between two countries and it is difficult to provide Western aid. It is not difficult to imagine that any aggressive plans for Latvia are developed as cynical and cunning as well. Putin's current activities do not call into question who will play a central role in justifying aggression in Latvia. Russian minority, once and for all, Russian citizens, whom fascists want to take away their legal possessions, Russian children, who are forced to learn Latvian... The stories of RTR Planeta and Russia Today show that the Kremlin is able to arrange a pre-invasion hysteria no worse than Göbels before Hitler's invasion of Czechoslovakia and Poland. Dear Members, I also call on us not to deceive ourselves by the fact that here, only dissidents and political refugees are required for residence permits. That's not the case! And even if so, we can be sure that Putin's propaganda will also provide them as victims of local etocracy if necessary. Marketing of residence permits to Russian citizens undermines not only security of Latvia, it destroys Latvia as a Latvian country. I assume that many of you this week... many of you had an opportunity this week to get acquainted with Vladimir Pozner's observations when arriving here in Latvia. He concludes that Jurmala has become so Russian in recent years that he no longer likes to stay here. ( From the drug depot. J.Adamson’s mids.) According to Pozner, Jurmala has become “an enclave of people from Russia” (quot!) . I would not very much like the rest of Latvia to become such an enlava. I therefore call on you to support the amendment of the Immigration Law by suspending the sale of residence permits to Russian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U17	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 30, for - 2. The decision has been taken. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. In the Saeima, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that the committee responsible in the 12th Saeima will also be the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption? There is no objection by Members. The Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals. Please turn on the microphone for Ainars Latkovsky!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U18	11 December
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U19	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 11 December this year. Thank you. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health". Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) http: / /www. emea. europa. eu/. Thus, in accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission on Social Affairs encourages further consideration of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health’ presented at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Vitaly Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U20	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In its meeting, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission unanimously supported the decision – to continue with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health”. Amendments to the law were prepared by the 11th Saeima and the Ministry of Health. They include the desire to strengthen the legal framework for artificial insemination and to allow the import and export of embryos. Request to support, as the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs also did.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U21	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 76, against - 3, refraining from - 7. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11. Social and Labour Affairs Commission was responsible for the draft law in the Saeima. Are Members not opposed to being the committee responsible in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission is also responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U22	November 28th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U23	So the deadline for submitting proposals is November 28, this year. Thank you. The next item on the agenda " tar g et=" is the bill "Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code" (No.27/Lp12). On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U24	Dear colleagues, Today our agenda includes five draft laws with the same title – “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. In the Legal Commission, we believe that this is a problem and we will, of course, try to combine these draft laws, but today we have to decide separately on five draft laws. The first draft law at second reading was adopted on 23 October this year and was drawn up at the initiative of the National Agency for Civil Aviation to ensure compliance with the non-compliances identified during the safety oversight audit of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and during the audit of the European Aviation Safety Organisation and to comply with the legal requirements of the European Union. At second reading, the 11th Saeima also supported amendments to Article 149.8 ‘Failure to speed, distance and interval’. This Article contains 27 parts and provides for the amendment of the penalties for speeding in different situations. The Legal Commission is of the opinion that we should definitely continue to work on the relevant draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I therefore call for the relevant draft law to be taken over and for work to be continued with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U25	No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.27/Lp12) in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible to the Legal Commission? There is no objection. The Committee on Legal Affairs will therefore also be responsible for the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U26	December 4th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U27	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code" (No 28/Lp12). On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U28	Next bill - “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”. This bill was drafted by the Legal Commission to solve the problem of giving the right to the owners of the violated property the right to appeal against the actions and decisions of the official concerning the property. Our Constitutional Court has submitted a constitutional complaint and the reason is very simple: the legal person was removed from the property, but it cannot appeal against the decisions made because the natural person is held liable. In response to this problem, a draft law has been drawn up. Please support its take-up and continuation of its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U29	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.28/Lp12) in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. 11. The Legal Commission was responsible for the draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible to the Legal Commission? There is no objection. The Legal Commission is also responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U30	December 4th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U31	So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia" (Rule 39 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure. Regulation (EC) No 595/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, amending and repealing Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC, and amending Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (OJ L 101, 14.4.2009, p. 1). On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U32	With this bill, the Saeima started working in 2012, and it was presented in one package with two other laws and regulations. In particular, by adopting amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices and the Law on Advertising, we could also amend the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. The purpose of the draft law is to enable the Consumer Rights Protection Centre and the Competition Council to review materials about violations in the field of advertising and commercial practice in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Administrative Procedure Law in accordance with special regulation. The Legal Commission calls for support for the transposition of the draft law and for further work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U33	Thank you. We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.29/Lp12) in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made - the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that the Legal Commission will also be responsible at the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. The Legal Commission is therefore responsible. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U34	December 4th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U35	So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. The next item is the bill "Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia" (Rule 39 of the Saeima's Rules of Procedure. Regulation (EC) No 30/Lp12). On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U36	It is a relatively small draft law on which the Legal Commission discussed twice for quite a long time. The aim of the draft law is to make it possible for the insolvency administrator to continue to apply penalties for infringements of insolvency law. There was really a discussion, but given that the insolvency administration is a public body exercising supervision over insolvency administrators, the Legal Commission decided that it was important to support the draft law in question. Of course, we will continue to debate at second reading as well, and then there will certainly be such an opportunity at the Saeima sitting. But now I am asking you to support the transposition of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No.30/Lp12) in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made - the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have no objection that the 12th Saeima is also responsible for the Commission for Legal Affairs? There is no objection. The Legal Commission is therefore responsible. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U38	December 4th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U39	So the proposals are expected by 4 December this year. Thank you. The next item is the bill “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No 31/Lp12). On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U40	And the last draft law under this title provides for supplementing the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations with chapter 22.A, entitled “Agreement on the execution of a penalty in an administrative infringement case”. The Legal Commission has supported the relevant concept, which provides that if a person commits an offence or a legal person commits an offence and admits his fault, he may agree to the execution of the sentence and the amount of the penalty will be reduced to 50 per cent. We will continue to discuss interest and procedure, but the concept has been supported, given that there are serious problems in Latvia regarding the collection and enforcement of fines and this proposal, which was drafted and submitted by the Ministry of Justice, can solve the problem. Please support the transposition and continuation of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U41	So, in the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law at the 11th Saeima. Are there any objections to Members that in the 12th Saeima the Legal Commission will also be responsible? There is no objection. So in the 12th Saeima, the Legal Commission will be responsible for this draft law. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U42	We will wait until December 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U43	So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 19th this year. The last item on the agenda of today's sitting is the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible to the draft law on cooperative societies (No. 2/12Lp). Consequently, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has submitted a draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law on the amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the change of the commission responsible for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. Thank you. All items on the agenda for the ordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 November have therefore been examined. We have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Thank you. Before reading the results of the registration, I would like to inform you of the answers to Members' questions. Questions by Members Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Lochmele-Lunova, Tretjaka and Pimenov regarding the implementation of the Rail Baltica project are addressed to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss. The Minister responsible has announced that he cannot come today and that no written reply has been received either. The question of Members Zarina, Urbanovich, Ribakova, Potapkin and Agešina to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the real acquirers of state-owned Citadele shares”. This question has been referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who has informed that he cannot come today, and no written answer has been given either. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš' intermediate statements: “In words, Members are ignored! People's power doesn't work!... “ Hence, the response is postponed to the next week. Name for the statement to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U44	Dear colleagues, Attention to members of the Latvian-Israel Parliamentary Cooperation Group! On Tuesday, November 25, a group meeting with the Israeli Ambassador will take place at 12 noon. The seat will be notified by e-mail to all members of the group. Everyone who wants to join - please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U45	Thank you. For the announcement, the name of Member Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U46	Please, delegates! We will immediately set up a group of Members in the next room to cooperate with the United States. I invite all who are interested to participate!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U47	Thank you. For the announcement the name of Member Lolita Chiganas.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U48	Colleagues! The establishment of the UK-Latvia Cooperation Group will take place immediately in the Guest Hall!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U49	Thank you. For the announcement, the name of the Member is waiting for Mr. Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U50	Dear Members of the Legal Commission. I invite you to a short sitting of the Legal Commission at 10 a.m. on the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U51	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U52	Dear Members, Today the meeting has not been closed: Aija Barča, Inga Bite, Jānis Kžads, Dainis Liepiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Silvija Šimfas and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-20-PT12-273-U53	Thank you. So I closed today's sitting.
