ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U1	Good morning, colleagues! Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December. Changes to the agenda of the Bureau meeting initially submitted. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of this sitting “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Please vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the agenda of the sitting of 18 December in the Law “On the Reallocation of the Appropriations of the State Budget 2014”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. Members Liepiņš, Viļums, Schics, Rucks, Bondars and Kleinberg have submitted a draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Votes, Legislative Proposals and the European Citizens’ Initiative”. Members... So one can talk about, one can talk about, one can talk about. Mr. Liepiņš, you will obviously talk about it. Name to Member Dainie Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! It is now about amendments to the law on popular voting, law-making and the European Citizens' Initiative. Paragraph 3 of the Transitional Provisions of this Law, in the current version, instructs the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure, by 1 September 2014, the technical and security readiness of the single state and municipal service portal for the collection of signatures in the online system... in mode, I'm sorry. 11.On 9th and 10th September 2014 the Legal Commission of the Saeima examined the issue of the launch of the collection of signatures on the online system. The information prepared by VARAM for the above-mentioned sittings shows that the task given in Paragraph 3 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law has not been fulfilled. The online system has not even been established, let alone its readiness to collect signatures in the online system mode. By letter dated 27 October this year, VARAM informed that an appropriate tender had been opened for the tender deadline. Taking into account the need to qualitatively evaluate the tender, the possibility to process the results of the tender and the time needed to design, approve, test and launch the system, it is questionable whether this system will be developed on 1 January 2015 and will be able to start full work. Upon entry into force of amendments to Section 22 of the Law, the right of persons guaranteed in the Constitution to submit draft laws will be unduly and disproportionately complicated. In Latvia, as a democratic and respectful state of national power, such a situation cannot be allowed. Moreover, if this online system is really developed but will not be approved, the public will not have had the opportunity to get to know it, then its widespread use and promotion will take extra time. The draft law that we have submitted is intended to maintain the current order of initiation of popular voting and that it is possible to collect 30,000 signatures. The possibility of collecting signatures has been complemented by the possibility of collecting signatures online. The purpose of this Appendix is to examine and approve the online system for collecting signatures to be developed, which may allow for a return to the discussion on the necessity and extent of the threshold for collecting signatures in the future. The law will ensure respect for public interests and compliance of the existing regulation with the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. The law provides for the preservation of the right of popular legislative initiative to the extent that they are currently in force. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U3	Thank you. ‘ Einars Cilinskis, the Member against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U4	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I have discussed this issue recently with the Secretary of State of VAR, and so VARAM is ready for signing from 1 January of next year. There could also be technical problems of VARAM with electronic collection of signatures already collected; therefore, let us say, this function should be extended, but this is a matter of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Consequently, I do not see the need to amend something with great urgency. At the same time, of course, the functioning of the referendum law and general public opportunities to initiate referendums... Are they not too difficult? This should be considered and evaluated, but there is no reason to propose something that Members have not yet met, in such an urgency, so I call for no support for the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On People’s Vote, Legislative Proposal and the European Citizens’ Initiative” on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 34, for - 23. Draft legislation is not on the agenda for the sitting on 18 December. Changes to the agenda of the sitting adopted by the Saeima Bureau Draft decision “On the dismissal of Ināra Strautiņa from the position of judge of Riga district court”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? There is no objection by Members. The agenda of the sitting has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission proposes that the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law be placed on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Disputes Law” be placed on the agenda of the meeting on 18 December. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Aleksejs Loskutovs, Lolita Čigāne, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilze Viņķele and others propose that the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe be included on the agenda for the meeting of 18 December. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Commission of Public Expenditure and Audit proposes to include the draft decision “On audit of the 2014 financial statement in the State Audit Office” on the agenda of the meeting of 18 December. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications proposes to include the draft decision “On consent to administrative arrest 12. Vekto Spolitis, Member of the Saeima”, on the agenda of the meeting on 18 December. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. Members Inguna Silver, Armands Krauze, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Aivars Meija and others propose... Thus, the Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Inguna Silver, Armands Krauze, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Romanas Mežecks and other draft laws presented “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible. ‘ Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U6	Good morning, dear colleagues! Good morning, dear colleagues! I have to talk about a bill that has not been annotated and which no one has yet spoken about. So that I'm... ( Depp.) R. Balodis.) Thank you, Mr. Baloze. Then you will be able to disprove my counter-arguments, but they will not be counter-arguments. These will be arguments why this particular draft law should not be passed on to commissions and why the issues as important as the change in the procedure for the election of the President... However, I expect that we will discuss this in the most qualitative and already discussed form of the draft law. There are very different procedures for the election of the President of the Republic in European countries. In a number of European countries, the president is elected by the people. It is in Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Finland, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia, France, Portugal, Romania, Cyprus and Lithuania. Parliament elects the President in Hungary, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta and Latvia. Partly through parliamentary involvement, the election procedure is in Germany, where the members of the Bundestag, together with representatives of the federal states, elect a president. In Estonia, too, there is a procedure where these procedures are decided together with local government leaders. An even more complicated procedure is in Switzerland, where the parliament of the head of the state is re-appointing one of the members of the federal government each year, electing him as the federal president for one year. There are also constitutional monarchies in Europe: Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg. We, the European family, are very timid and Latvia, with very parliamentary traditions, has elected the President of Latvia in a stable parliamentary order from the entry into force of the Satversme. Yes, we can change this existing order! Yes, there are different coolers in society about how the President of Latvia should act in various public and national misfortunes, and he would have a stronger mandate if he were elected by the people. But I really expect the analysis to be based on research. I have taken with me a collection of views compiled by the Commission on Constitutional Rights of the President, which contains a very well-founded study of the functions of the President of Latvia in a parliamentary state. The highly recognised state law experts have studied that the procedure for the election of the President of Latvia and the procedure for obtaining his initial mandate are not the ones that determine the powers of the President of Latvia. And indeed in Latvia we are in a situation where we should think whether this role of arbitrator, which is entrusted to the President of a parliamentary state, should not be supplemented - perhaps within the framework of a creative function - that the President of Latvia could be more involved in proposing high-ranking officials so that political parties or political groups are not the candidates to be approved by the Saeima. Very good questions to debate! But, as I said, this draft law does not have an annotation, and it is very laconic: it speaks only of a change of election. Dear colleagues, Consequently, I believe that we will debate a great deal about the election of the President of Latvia in this parliamentary term. My group, the Unity of the Group, believes that this is the case. We hope that, in this Saeima, we will be joined by colleagues from the new factions that come with this initiative today - to speak about the open election of the President of Latvia, while the Constitution strengthens the role of Parliament in the election of the President of Latvia. Thus, there is a great deal of work to be done after the session's suspension, because seeing the role of the President of Latvia and electing the President of Latvia are already put in the swing - that is, in the next part-session... not the next, but the summer part-session will really have to decide on this issue. But there are still very few revelations made by the President's Commission on Constitutional Law. I will also tell you in 50 seconds that this discussion on the extension of the role of the President of Latvia as an arbitrator of the parliamentary state should not be linked to a change in the procedure for the election of the President of Latvia. These are individual issues, colleagues, and we can debate this. Today, we have another bill on the agenda, so that there will certainly be a debate. But I am calling, colleagues, for this draft law to be rejected, because there is also a small problem with the legal technique, and the applicants know it. In order to amend the scope of the powers of the President of Latvia and to reduce the time limit for five years, it is also necessary to amend Article 39 of the Satversme. This is not proposed in this draft law and the Commission will not be able to reopen it. Colleagues, I call for this draft law to be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U7	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U8	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! As surprising as it may be, I very much agree with Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere. But - but! Before the draft law was tabled, we, as its drafters, were in the face of a great dilemma. One possibility was to prepare serious, detailed, large-scale amendments to the Constitution - such amendments to the Constitution that were developed five years ago by the National Association - amendments that would be drawn up on the basis of the conclusions of comparative constitutional rights; amendments that would crystallise the scope of the powers of the President of Latvia; amendments that would include all the eight functions listed by the prominent Latvian statewife Kārlis Dišlers. Such amendments must cover at least 10 articles of the Constitution and other laws. The second opportunity was to open a discussion on the model for the election of the President of Latvia in principle. The first option was chosen, as I mentioned, by the National Association that submitted amendments of high quality to the Saeima for consideration - amendments to the Constitution, which, according to the current Minister of Justice, provided for a very balanced mechanism of power. Experts of constitutional law had worked on its development, evaluating foreign experience. Among these constitutional experts, I was also working on amendments for six months with other scientists. Why did we work? Because several energetic young people came to the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia with sparkling eyes and in the eyes of Latvian lifestyles and asked to help prepare amendments to the Satversme that would allow the election of the President of Latvia to the nation. Scientists helped. And where are these amendments now? These are "wronged" with, for example, protruding arguments: "These amendments are turning the country towards authoritarian regimes. And, in general, the power in the proposal in question is not like that... something that is not rude in those amendments.’ To start talks about the mandate so that later the Philistines would put the nation's question of the President of Latvia aside - that's the method! That's the method of all the arguments "for" and "no" being caught in a big pile to end hard to blow down and reject this issue - say, now there's no clear mandate! In our view, it must be said: "Stop!" . Like in the ancient Latvian multene “Si-Si-Dra” we say: “Let’s get a new picture inside!” Let's start talking in turn. Let us start a debate on whether we in Parliament want to vote in favour of a change in the model for the election of the President of Latvia, and then start talking about the mandate. There is no good, better, best and most correct proposal in the debate on the scope of the President's mandate. The mandate of the President of the People's Republic can only be a product of political discussion, consultation and strong political compromise. It is for this reason that the very earlier proposals that were encouraged have been quietly buried in the Saeima archives. In August and September this year, both the National Association and the ZZS expressed their support for the idea of changing the election order of the President of Latvia and introducing a nation-elected president. In fact, only one of the parties elected to the 12th Saeima consistently opposes the people's elected president. It is a Unity. I respect their consistency, but the unity that, by the way, is not so uniform (The Group's Unity laughter.) , there are only 23 votes. I cannot, unfortunately, talk to the hall, but a mathematically elected president should be admitted to this Saeima if anyone does not play the theatre. This is a question for the National Association, because currently the Legal Commission has Gaidis Berzins, the leader of the national states. I would remind you that in the 11th parliamentary election programmes in four thousand signposts you wrote that you are supporting and wanting a people-elected president, and at the present moment you are writing in a broader programme that you must be a nation-elected president. I remind you that the proposals of the Association of the Regions of Latvia are coming, and SASKA also comes to the name here, and I think that the statistics that the people say to us... In most parts of the people there is a desire for a people-elected president. Whoever wants to achieve the result, it is looking for the means to do it, but who only imitates the action, always finds an excuse for the question to be postponed. I appeal to the nationals, to Gaida Bērziņa: please combine these legally so different draft laws and create an alternative draft law to amend the Satversme, which would be carefully discussed in terms of “for” and “to” powers, because in fact the Saeima has acted similarly in other cases, when the Legal Commission worked on an alternative draft law. There could be a working group and there could also be a sub-committee. It is only a matter of technical nature. Let us not try to “shake” it with any arguments when we have to think about this important matter. Thank you. ( The philosophies of the NSL fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U9	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 34, for - 8. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. ( Ploughs of opposition fractions.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the Member Dāiņa Liepiņa, Nellija Kleinberga, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šics, Mārtiņš Bondars and other draft laws presented “Amendments to the Law on Roads” be submitted to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible. So “for” applied to speak Member Dainis Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U10	Dear colleagues, This is a bill that I think no one has doubted that it is very important for Latvia's economy, because what will happen to state roads, both the Cabinet of Ministers and us as Members, are one of our economic priorities. And, in fact, the proposal we tabled is based on a very simple compromise. Indeed, we are just offering to increase these excise duties on a regular basis and to increase them by 1 per cent next year. One thing! Although, in fact, it will still be far from what was adopted at the time - that 80 percent of excise duty will leave the national roads. We now offer 21 percent, then increasing for two years to 25 percent and then 35 percent. And only in 2020 would we reach those 89 percent. I think it is only fair to put some system in place and thus increase the predictability of road construction. I call for support for this draft law to be passed on to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U11	Thank you. ‘ Against” has applied to speak by Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U12	Dear President, Colleagues! I would like to touch a bit today on the fact that a contract on the acquisition of European funds was concluded this year. It is time to say a great deal of thanks to those who concluded this Treaty with the European Union, because now, out of EUR 4.3 billion, around 29 per cent of the European Union's funds are allocated to the development of transport straight - road and rail - over the next five years. So I would like to say that more than EUR 1 billion will be available from the European Union funds over the coming years and it will affect both the main roads of Latvia, regional roads and local roads. And municipalities, i.e. regional centres, will also have access to ERDF funds on a rather large scale. I think that our main task would be to look at the criteria for these available ERDF funds to really be invested in infrastructure and tolls in the larger regions, but we also need to think about small local authorities, rural authorities in the future, because they could have a public investment programme; of course, there will also be funds from the Rural Support Service. I would like to say today that, over the last few years, funding has regularly increased for the maintenance and repair of both public roads and municipal roads. In 2012, the municipalities had 23 percent, for public roads 77 percent, and in 2014 this ratio was 28 and 72 percent. And, as I said, for 2015, 2016 and 2017, the funds are planned mainly for the development of regional roads, and therefore partly for local roads. On what Members are now proposing. It is simply unrealistic to include these percentages in the law in the coming years, because what we now collect from excise duty... This has been about 405 million in 2014, and 415 million are planned for 2015. So if it's 21 percent, then you can figure out what it's about... Unfortunately, we really get out now with excise duty on fuel and gas products to remove much more necessary things. Of course, this idea is to be supported, but now, as I said, these are unrealistic figures. And unfortunately yesterday, I must say, the opposition also voted 'no' or abstained in the vote on 7 million of the funds for new political initiatives being allocated next year to clean up and maintain municipal roads. I call for a 'no' vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 25, for - 31. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” presented by Solvita Āboltiņa, Edward Smiltēna, Gundars Dauge, Gaida Berzins and Augusta Brigmanis be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Please vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -78, against -13, refrains - not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” presented by Member Solvita Āboltiņa, Edward Smiltēna, Gundars Dūke, Gaida Berzins and Augusta Brigmanis be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Solvita Āboltiņa, Edward Smiltēna, Gundars Dauge, Gaida Berzins and Augusta Brigmanis refer the draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Sergey Dolgopolov has applied for a procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U14	Dear colleagues, since the 11th Saeima, all electoral laws have passed through the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, so I invite you to change the commission of responsibility and to state that the Commission of State Administration and Local Government is responsible for this draft law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U15	So there is a proposal to establish a Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, but a Commission of Law - for a Commission of Responsibility. So... Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U16	Yes, thank you, colleagues. My call on behalf of the Legal Commission would be to refer the draft law to the Legal Commission. And as co-responsible could be the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U17	That's it, thank you. We must therefore vote in favour of the draft decision prepared by the Bureau. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft decision prepared by the Bureau, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible, and the National Administration and Local Government Commission - the co-responsible commission. ( The ringing of noise, the intermediates. From the drug depot. S. Aboltiņa: “But there was a proposal to fix... !” ) Thus, according to the Rules of Procedure, the decision is to determine the Legal Commission for the Commission responsible. However, there is a proposal to change the commission responsible. Therefore, it is necessary to vote first of all on the draft decision prepared by the Bureau, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible and proposing that the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be designated as the co-responsible commission. Turn on the microphone for Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U18	From a procedural point of view, the Bureau’s decision is to refer it to the Legal Commission as the commission responsible. That decision is therefore also to be put to the vote by the... but in the opinion of the Commission, this draft law must be considered by the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, as it has been for all these years. That was the second proposal. The Bureau decision does not refer to the co-responsible commission. It is therefore a separate decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U19	Mr Dolgopolova, you are absolutely right! It is therefore necessary to vote first of all on the draft decision of the Saeima, as it was originally drawn up, according to which the Commission for Legal Affairs is the Commission responsible. Please vote... Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the European Parliament Election Law to the Legal Commission, which states that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 16, for - 71, for - 3. Thus, the draft law has not been passed on to the Legal Commission, which states that it is a committee responsible. The next proposal is to vote in favour of handing over the draft law to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on the European Parliament Election Law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please vote mode!... Voting mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 17, for - 5. Thus, the draft law has been passed on to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Thank you. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes to refer the draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Political Parties’ drawn up by Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Edwards Smiltēns, Gundars Dauge, Gaidis Berzins and Augusts Brigmanis to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, which states that it is a commission responsible. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Let’s vote!” ) Members ask for a vote? ( From the drug depot. I. Silver: “Yes!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Political Parties” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, six, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Solvita Āboltiņa, Edward Smiltēna, Gundars Dauge, Gaida Berzins and Augusta Brigmanis refer the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” to the National Administration and Local Government Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 7, it's not. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by Member Edgars Putra, Kārlis Šadurska, Jānis Vacāns, Artis Rasmanis, Imantas Raudnieks and Andris Berzins be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible. Are there any objections to Members? Member Roman Maudiņš has applied to speak. Turn on the microphone, please, Member Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U20	Colleagues, request that this draft law be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy as the co-responsible Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U21	Are Members opposed to passing the draft law on to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as co-responsible? Please turn on the microphone for Edgar Putr! There's no objection, though... Thus, there is no objection to Members. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There's no objection. Thank you. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of the Republic” submitted by the Member Diņa Liepiņa, Jānis Ruka, Artura Neimina, Mārtiņš Šics, Jurs Viļuma and other Members be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “No objections!” ) Member Dainis Liepiņš has applied to speak “on”. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U22	Colleagues, this is a continuation of what... for our first vote. And in fact, we would just like changes to the President's election law to be considered. It would stipulate that the candidate should have a higher education degree and have the highest category of admission of state secrets in good time. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “How is this possible?” ) We also determine that 10 Saeima Members, 10 thousand citizens, political parties registered in Latvia or their associations with not less than 1 thousand members may nominate a candidate for the office of President of Latvia. So we are calling for support for this draft law to be examined by the Commission. And perhaps if colleagues have some clarifications in it, we can do so in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U23	Mr. Karlis Šadurskis has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U24	Dear colleagues, I think that this proposed norm that the candidate for the post of President of Latvia should have the highest category of permission for state secret is contrary to the Constitution (From the hall: “To change!” ), because the scope of candidates is very serious, as allowances for dealing with sensitive documents can be obtained according to the need to perform their duties. Consequently, only those persons who already have this tolerance in the performance of their duties could be elected as President of the State. Otherwise, if we wanted to elect someone who is respected and loved across the nation, who is not currently working in public administration, he would simply not be able to qualify because he would not have this tolerance at that time. However, to demand permission simply because you want to become a presidential candidate, unfortunately, our legislation does not provide for it. I therefore call on the developers to think more about the legal quality of their proposed legislative amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U25	Thank you. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 49, for - 5. So the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes the Member Daiņa Liepiņa, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šica, Artura Neimina, Jurs Viļuma and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Saeima's Rules of Procedure... I apologise, the Saeima Presidium proposes that the Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Daiņa Liepiņa, Nellia Kleinberga, Juris Viļuma, Jānis Rūka and other draft laws presented "Amendments to the Saeima's Rule of Procedure" be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Member Dainis Liepiņš has applied to speak “on”.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U26	In this case, we should amend that we rule out the way in which the President of Latvia is elected and exclude that information about the candidate for President of Latvia is submitted to the Bureau. Since this is, let us say, the whole package that comes with it will continue to come in the context of this election procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U27	Thank you. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Of course!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 49, for - 6. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Diņa Liepiņa, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šica, Artura Neimina, Jurs Viļuma and other draft laws presented by the President of the Republic of Latvia “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” be referred to all commissions, stating that the Commission for the Judiciary is responsible. Do Members have objections? Members are calling for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” to all commissions, stating that the Legal Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 43, refraining from - 12. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the member Diņa Liepiņa, Jānis Ruka, Mārtiņš Šica, Artura Kaimiņa, Jurs Viļuma and other draft laws submitted by the parliament “Amendments to the Law “On the Central Electoral Commission” be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as to the State Administration and Municipal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Yes!” ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Central Election Commission” to the Legal Commission, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 52, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that we have received an application. On the basis of the first and second paragraphs of Article 144 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, National Associations “All for Latvia!” - “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” group submits a report on the motives for voting, voting on the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” and the second draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” ( 121/Lp12 and 84/Lp12), “Amendments to the Law on the Election of the President” ( 119/Lp12), “Amendments to the Council’s Rules of Procedure” ( 120/Lp12) and “Amendments to the law “On the Central Electoral Commission” (122/Lp12) to the Saeima committees, and asks to allow to read the results of the vote after the vote to the Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U28	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! National associations “All for Latvia!” - the report on the motives for voting on the following draft laws: ‘Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia’ ( 84/Lp12), ‘Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia’ ( 121/Lp12), ‘Amendments to the Law on Election of the President’ ( 119/Lp12), ‘Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order’ ( 120/Lp12) and ‘Amendments to the Law on the Central Electoral Commission’ ( 122/Lp12). ( Herein are the draft laws.) Draft laws provide for the introduction of a publicly elected Institute of the President of Latvia. In the 10th Saeima, the National Association submitted a draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, which provided for the introduction of a publicly elected Institute of the President of Latvia, in addition to granting essential powers to the President of Latvia, such as the appointment of judges. In the process of drafting that law, recognised experts in constitutional law, such as Professor Ringolds Balodis, were also involved. On 9 June 2011, the Saeima did not pass on the said draft law to commissions. Nevertheless, the topicality of the issue has not disappeared. In view of the desire of the part of society to introduce the institution of the elected President of the People, the position previously expressed by the National Association and the current geopolitical situation, the National Association considers that first of all, the public needs to have a wide discussion about the goals of the introduction of the elected President of the People, assessing all arguments “for” and “for” as well as the timing of the implementation. Such a discussion is particularly important in a situation where neighbouring Russia is engaged in aggression against Ukraine. In the current situation, any unweighted action may affect both security of Latvia and the future. Secondly. None of the proposed draft laws provides for the procedure for the funding of pre-election of candidates for the post of President. The lack of such arrangements, especially today, runs counter to the principle of monetary power in politics. In the absence of a clear and understandable regulation, it is possible that the election campaign of the President of Latvia would involve funds of origin in countries hostile to Latvia with objectives that are clearly contrary to Latvia's interests. Thirdly. A situation in which one of the cornerstones of Latvia's state - the State President's Institute - is transformed into a hurry and at any cost is not allowed. Such a conclusion comes from the assessment of the wish of individual Members of the Saeima to hand over to the committees poor-quality draft laws, without even removing the contradictions contained in them. In a way, it can be considered hooliganism against the Constitution. The actions of these individual Members, which include, inter alia, recognised experts in constitutional law, cannot therefore be understood. On the basis of the above considerations, the Group of the National Alliance does not support the referral of these draft laws to the commissions, but from next year will launch a discussion on the future of the Institute of the President of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U29	Thank you. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Commercial Law" presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: ‘Ir!’ ) Members have reservations. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Labour Dispute Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social Affairs and Labour by stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Andrejs Elksniņš on 11 December of this year. The Bureau of the Saeima shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request from Member Andrejs Elksniņš to grant him unpaid leave on 11 December of this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Sergey Potapkin from 12 December to 18 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request from Member Sergey Potapakin to grant him unpaid leave. The Bureau granted leave from 12 December to 18 December and informed the Saeima thereof. The next item is the draft decision on the closure of the parliamentary autumn session of 2014 and the opening of the parliamentary winter session of 2015. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima autumn session of 2014 and the beginning of the Saeima winter session of 2015! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore approved. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the dismissal of Lilija Kanaviņa from the position of judge of the Aizkraukle district court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U30	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 11 December of this year, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Lilija Kanaviņa from office of a judge of Aizkraukle district court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Lilija Kanavina to be dismissed from office of a judge of Aizkraukle district court by 31 December 2014.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Lilija Kanaviņa from office of a judge of Aizkraukle district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the dismissal of Ināra Strautiņa from the position of judge of Riga district court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U32	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 17 December, the draft decision “On Dismissal of Ināra Strautiņa from the position of a judge of Riga district court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Ināra Strautiņa to be released from office of a judge of Riga District Court on 18 December 2014 due to health condition.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U33	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Ināra Strautiņa from the office of judge of Riga district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Members Aleksejs Loškotovs, Lolita Čigāne, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ilze Viņķele and others submitted a draft decision “On the approval of the Head of the Latvian Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Head of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima". In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, propose to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights” submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U34	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection”. As you know, this draft law has already been submitted to the previous Saeima, and it concerns issues relating to so-called ‘non-bank lending’. The head of the draft law was the Cabinet of Ministers, and the amendments aimed at ensuring the proportionality of the costs of consumer credit services, promoting the assessment of consumer solvency, ensuring the application of proportionate interest on late payment, as well as a fairer procedure for the redemption of payments resulting from the contract. The main proposals in this bill related to the prohibition of overnight credit agreements (i.e. from 23.00 a.m. to 7 a.m.), the intention was to ensure the proportionality of the costs of the credit agreement and compliance with fair business practices, the prohibition on the use of bills of exchange as a means of settlement, as well as the introduction of a maximum delay rate. With the entry into force of this law, the industry itself has begun to take steps to address these painful issues. Unfortunately, this applies only to those operators in the sector who are members of the industry association, but not to all those in the sector. At the same time, the Ministry of Economics also points to a worrying trend that so-called remote loans are showing an increase in delayed liabilities. The industry itself has also pointed out that there are a number of issues that should be put together in this sector. These include, for example, licensing, which prevents the industry from being effective and planning its activities in a way that is sustainable. Therefore, having repeatedly listened to the views of the drafters of the law, as well as the views of industry, the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission decided to invite the Saeima to examine the draft law at the 12th Saeima, setting a sufficiently long time limit for the submission of proposals in order to give the opportunity to draft proposals and the necessary solutions for all problems. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to support the continuation of the examination of the draft law at the 12th Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U35	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 3. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U36	10 February of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U37	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 10 February 2015. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, propose to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U38	Hello, dear colleagues! In essence, this draft law must be seen in the context of the draft law on "Amendments to the Energy Act", which is the next item on the agenda. These two draft laws are in essence part of a single package. In addition, these two draft laws could soon be joined by the third one, the related one, which is on the way to the Saeima, which is the draft law on energy efficiency, which is in essence such a roof law for this subject of energy efficiency regulation. Basically, the Buildings Energy Efficiency Act and its related laws are... These amendments to these laws are, however, justified by the current Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy performance of buildings. Of course, this regulation must also be introduced in Latvia. This will not be an inexpensive process; it could cost quite considerable amounts to the local authorities and the private sector as well. Given that the draft law on energy efficiency is still only on the way to the Saeima, on behalf of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, I call for a sufficiently long period to be set for the submission of proposals so that it is really possible to look at all three draft laws in the context. Therefore, I call on you to continue with the 12th Saeima to see amendments to the Buildings Energy Efficiency Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U39	Thank you. The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy Efficiency of Buildings” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members not opposed to being the committee responsible in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. In that case, please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U40	18 February of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U41	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 February 2015. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers, propose to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Energy Law” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U42	Dear colleagues, I call on the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to be as friendly and united as you have supported seeing the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act... continuation of viewing in the 12th Saeima, do the same with amendments of the Energy Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Energy” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that this commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima? There are no objections. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U44	Analogous as before, so this is February 18 next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U45	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 February 2015. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection of the Topographies of Semi-conductor Products” submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. In the debate... No, report applied by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U46	Hello, honourable Members! Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection of the Topography of semiconductor products” is related to the amendments already adopted... instead of the amendments adopted at first reading, supported by the Saeima’s Education, Culture and Science Commission... No, the new draft law on industrial property institutions and procedures, as well as the three future draft laws on the agenda, is related to this law. And these amendments are necessary to remove from the special law the regulations contained in this industrial property law in order to harmonise terminology... to have a common terminology, and therefore these three draft laws - both this draft law and the next three draft laws - should be dealt with in a single package with this draft law on industrial property institutions and procedures. On behalf of the government, I also call for the 12th Saeima to continue examining this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U47	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U48	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, As the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice has already mentioned, the issue of amendments to the law on protection of topographies of semiconductor products is related to the draft law, which was reviewed at the 11th Saeima, the title of which was the “Law on Industrial Property”. Unfortunately, this draft Industrial Property Law was drafted very poorly. During the examination at the 11th Saeima, this draft law was passed until the second reading. The content changes were more than half of the articles of the draft law. The draft law also gained a new name by which it was taken over to the 12th Saeima. At present, in the 12th Saeima we have taken it up with the 43rd Number and the title “Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures”. It has four accompanying laws, one of which is this law for the protection of topographies of semiconductor products. However, the changes required by this draft law, taking into account the changes made by the basic law, are disproportionately large. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science looked at the issue both at this draft law and at the next three in its sitting and decided not to refer the draft law to the 12th Saeima and to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to draft the draft law in a new version. Please do not support the transposition of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U49	Thank you. I closed the debate. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 28, against - 36, abstaining - 16. So the 12th Saeima will not continue to consider the draft law. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” submitted to the Saeima by the 11th Saeima. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Janis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U50	Yeah. As I said, this draft law is also related to the Law on Industrial Property, and the motivation for its adoption, for example, is exactly the same: a special law whose terminology and norms must be arranged... be brought into line with this Law. On behalf of the Government, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U51	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U52	It is with the same motivation as in the previous question on behalf of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science that I ask you not to support the transposition of these draft laws at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U53	Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Patent Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, against - 28, refrains - 17. So the 12th Saeima will not continue to consider the draft law. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the review of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice - the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U54	Yeah. The third draft text of this same package, which I also call for support by analogy.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U55	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U56	(From the drug depot. A.Elksniņš: “Who is the first of you?” ) Dear colleagues! With identical motivation as in the previous question on behalf of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, I call not to take over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs” for consideration at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U57	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Designs” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 37, for - 16. So the 12th Saeima will not continue to consider the draft law. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” at the 12th Saeima. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Janis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U58	Last draft of this legislative package. On behalf of the Government, I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U59	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U60	(From the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “Something New!” ) Dear colleagues, apologies, but now for the fourth time in connection with the Law on Industrial Property Institutions and Procedures, I also call for no support to be given to the transposition of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications" at the 12th Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U61	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 37, for - 16. So the 12th Saeima will not continue to consider the draft law. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Bad!” ) According to Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration” submitted to the 11th Saeima at the 12th Saeima. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Janis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U62	Yes, this will not be the law of the same legislative package this time. This draft law is related to the next draft law. ( Merry laughter.) And this is related to the concept of registration of a single institutional entity and economic operator in the Register of Enterprises approved by the Government on 22 August 2012, i.e. the Register of Enterprises will maintain a register of public institutions so that this list of institutions is easily accessible to all citizens and other interested parties, as it is now, for example, concluded at government level that this public sector classification is not sufficient, therefore this draft law proposes to introduce this register. I therefore call on the government to take over and look at this bill at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U63	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U64	Hello, honourable Members! So this question has been twilighted in the air since 2008, but if you look deeper into history, it started in 1998 by Maris Gulbis. And it is about the fact that, in fact, already in Lithuania, public authorities are already transparent in one public register, which can identify what is now right to represent the Ministry and what was before. At this point in time, we have these records in individual ministries... Partly, not partially. The State Chancellery, which would be obliged to conclude and record what, for example, is now the Auditor General, would probably be, if they went and looked at it on their computer, I think I would see that Inguna Silverba is still the Auditor General. I have been acting as the main notary of the Register of Enterprises in the working group, so I also know about this case, and that's the story that, of course, you'll ask them for information, they'll look at... hop, we've got... There is no Elita Shrub, but there is Inguna Silver. They will quickly rewrite and give the right information out. At the same time, however, this is a step forward so that public authorities are transparent to everyone, not to say that each institution's website contains different information... These are serious amendments, and I ask for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U65	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. In that case, please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading. Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U66	Given that this issue, as Mr Baloža said, is very serious, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set on 2 March 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U67	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - March 2, 2015. The Saeima Bureau informs that it has received... I'm sorry! So there were no other proposals. ( From the drug: “There was no one! It wasn’t!” ) The Bureau of the Saeima informed that it had received an application from five Members - Kārlis Šadurska, Edward Smiltēna, Hosama Abu Meri, Solvita Āboltiņa and Ainaras Latkovska - to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December this year and to move paragraph 49 (draft amendments to the Commercial Law) before item 27 of the agenda. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the SC Group: “We don’t care! ” ) There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. Consequently, on the agenda the draft law ‘Amendments to the Commercial Law’, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U68	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The budget package that we supported yesterday included a draft law on “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Enterprises”. This law... In accordance with the legal technical standards and requirements, the amended norm on the composition of boards must also be duplicated in the Commercial Law. These amendments have been prepared by the Commission and the Commission is asking for urgency to be established for the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law and to support it at first reading. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Where do you have to hurry?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U69	The Commission therefore proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, against - 28, refrains - 5. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U70	Dear colleagues, The Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U71	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Commercial Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - 29, for - 5. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U72	If there is no objection from colleagues, I call on the committee to support the draft law in the second, final, reading as well, without re-examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U73	Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U74	The Commission is calling for a deadline of five minutes for the submission of proposals and a discussion at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U75	So there is a proposal to set a deadline for the submission of proposals - five minutes. Are there any objections to such a... Is that so? ( From the medicine: “There are objections! ” ) Members have reservations. So we have to vote. We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law "Amendments to the Commercial Law" to be set at 10.24 a.m. until 18 December this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 35, for - 1. So the deadline for submitting proposals is five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U77	The next item is the agenda. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” presented at the 11th Saeima” at the 12th Saeima. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Janis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U78	Thank you. This draft law is also linked to the establishment of a register of public authorities. And if Members supported the first draft law, which was "Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration", then I also call for this draft law, which is related to it, to be supported by my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U79	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law will continue to be examined at the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima, too, this commission will be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. In that case, please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading. Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U80	Colleagues, given that this draft law is related to amendments to the Law on State Administration Equipment, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set on 2 March 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U81	So the deadline for submitting proposals is March 2, 2015. The next item is the draft law amending the Civil Procedure Law. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendment to Civil Procedure Law” submitted to the Saeima by the 11th Saeima. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Janis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U82	Yes, thank you. This is a small amendment to the Civil Procedure Law, which introduces a state fee of EUR 30 in cases where it is already requested to replace a party after the judgment because the claim has been assigned to recovery. On average, there are approximately 3 000 such applications per year in the courts, which, of course, also create some administrative burden. Therefore, a request for the introduction of such a charge has been received from the courts. And its amount shall be equal to the fees provided for by the procedural arrangements for a similar application. I therefore ask the 12th Saeima, on behalf of the Government, to continue examining this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U83	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U84	Dear colleagues, This draft law is, in my view, very mixed because it provides for the introduction of a new and unjustified national tax. The regulation contained in the draft law “Amendment to the Civil Procedure Law” regarding the procedure for taking over the procedural rights of the parties obliges the person to pay a new state fee when submitting an application for taking over the procedural rights of the party in the event that it is submitted after the entry into force of the final decision. The new State levy is payable in the amount of EUR 30. In my opinion, this initiative is not and cannot be supported, because the party who left at the beginning of the proceedings has paid the national fee for the proceedings. Moreover, not in all cases, the successor party submits extensive additional documents. This can also be seen from the statement that a party, in the exercise of its procedural rights, tends to produce large amounts of documents. So this is not always the case. It should also be noted that the annotation attached to the draft law, in my opinion, is very unsuccessful at all, and the aim of the draft law mentioned in the annotation – “to improve the procedure for taking over the procedural rights of the parties established by the law on civil procedure”. It follows that improvement is possible only through the introduction of public levies. However, I believe that this cannot be accepted, and the majority of the Saeima's Legal Commission has similar thoughts, because during this part-session the relevant proposal and the relevant regulation have already been rejected once. I call on you to vote against the transposition of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U85	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to Civil Procedure Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 29, for - 6. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object to it being responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima as well? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals. Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U86	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 20, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U87	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 20 January 2015. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Law on Public Services” submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U88	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen, At present, national legislation does not contain provisions which clearly define common basic principles that would apply to all public services. The legal framework is fragmented and is also not denied by the opponents of the draft law. Therefore, a draft Public Service Law has been created - created to reduce the administrative burden on citizens, as well as entrepreneurs, and to improve the efficiency, quality and accessibility of the provision of public services. The draft law must ensure a common understanding of the concept of public service and lay down basic principles for the provision and management of public services, create a legal framework for the implementation of a common service provision procedure in public administrations and municipalities, while creating a framework for the joint coordination of the parties involved in the provision of services. Draft legislation has consistently been a priority for governments over the last three years. 11.The legislative procedure has been initiated and the draft law has been adopted at first reading. The draft law has been drawn up on the basis of Cabinet Order No.58 of 19 February 2013 (on the concept of improvement of public service system), on several points in the Declaration on activities planned by the Cabinet of Ministers headed by Valdis Dombrovskis, on the basis of the declaration by Laimdota Straujuma first government, which states that we will continue to improve the public service system, submit the draft Public Service Law to the Saeima, implement pilot projects of the one-stop-shop and, on the basis of the results obtained, clarify the concept of improvement of the public service system. Paragraphs 27 and 28 of this Government Declaration also state that the development of professional, efficient, modern and result-oriented public administration should be continued, promoting distance work opportunities and introducing e-government principles in the provision of public services, as well as regular evaluation of administrative burden and submission of proposals to reduce it. It is these objectives that can be achieved through the arrangement of the public service system and through the adoption of the Public Service Act by the Saeima. This draft law is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, because the norms stipulated in the draft law are applied in all public administration. One example is the current situation where there is no regulation regarding the provision of municipal services. If an entrepreneur wants to develop his company in Baltinava, then he has to take into account that the Rural Support Service is only in Gulbene, but the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia and the Food and Veterinary Service in Rezekne, while if any excise duties are required, they can only be received from the State Revenue Service in Riga, but if there are tax issues, things must be considered in Daugavpils, but the construction board is in Viļaka. Distance: from Baltinavas to Gulbene - 68 kilometres, to Rezekne - 60, to Riga - 243, to Daugavpils - 160 kilometres... Therefore, a rhetorical question arises: why should these citizens and entrepreneurs, who want to achieve a single goal, walk from the institution to the institution in order to get sound, permission? Why can’t these services be received electronically via the portal www.latvija.lv or in the one-stop agency of your municipality? This draft law provides for this. Perhaps this is why the Latvian Employers' Confederation and the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry are also supporting the progress of this draft law. The ideas included in the draft law have been supported in more than 100 different seminars across Latvia, which have been attended by at least 2 000 heads of municipal employees and institutions.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U89	Mr. Tawar! I'll ask... How long will your report be? How long? Mr. Tawar, how long will your report be?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U90	I could be in 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U91	I call, however, for the report to be completed after a break, because we have a Christmas event. So you have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Before reading the results of the registration, colleagues, I would like to invite you to meet at the Saeima for the Christmas celebration where the Christmas tree will be, there will be an opportunity to make Christmas decorations with your children, taste a hot drink and gingerbread. Everyone is welcome! Name for the announcement to Member Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U92	Dear colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! I call on you, in this break, to sit on the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission - now in five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U93	Interruption until 11 a.m. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U94	Please, colleagues! Not registered here: Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Inga Bite, Arturs Kaimiņš, Imants Produnieks, Sergejs Potapkins. Thank you. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U95	Dear colleagues, Please, take your seats! The clock is eleven and it's already one minute. On December 18th, 2014 the Saeima will meet! I remind you that we started to look at paragraph 29 of the agenda before a break - the draft law on public services proposed to take over by the 12th Saeima in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliamentary Order, and the name was given to the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Edgars Tavars. Please, Mr. Tatar!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U96	(From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Start from the end, otherwise it will be forgotten!” ) Yes, thank you. Thank you again for your word. I'll go on. Yes, the need for improvement of the public service system has also been supported by managers of municipalities where pilot projects of on-site customer service centres were implemented. These are the municipalities of Daugavpils, Valmiera, Auce and Roja. Data from SKDS survey conducted at the beginning of 2014 also show that 85 percent of respondents support the implemented state progress of pilot projects provided for in the draft law towards arrangement of the public service system. Next year's draft budget also provides for support for this activity, as well as for the new period, the support of the European Union's structural funds provides substantial funding for improving eGovernment. On the progress of the bill. In order to develop the draft law, an interministerial working group with 30 people was set up, with the participation of lawyers from almost all ministries and institutions subordinate to them, and as a result of the work of this working group, the draft law in the Cabinet of Ministers was approved, as well as agreed with all ministries and the Latvian Municipal Union. However, given that the draft law will have a significant impact on the work carried out by public administrations to date with visitors, the draft law lost a number of initial wordings in the course of its harmonisation. The Legal Bureau of the Saeima and members of the National Administration and Municipal Commission also pointed to this problem in the 11th Saeima, but the draft law also supported further progress. On the side of the Ministry, I can assure you that all the necessary forces of the Ministry will be dedicated to preparing and discussing proposals discussed with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which will be intelligible, acceptable and acceptable to the 12th Saeima Members. Therefore, honourable Members, I call for a careful assessment of the nature of the draft law for the benefit of citizens and businesses and for its further promotion in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U97	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor will be discussed with Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U98	The High Saeima! A very interesting situation is emerging, which also creates a certain precedent. 12. The National Administration and Local Government Commission elected in the Saeima has already examined this draft law, devoting two sittings to it, inviting experts and listening to all opinions about it in a rather detailed manner. Some questions arise. The first question: Is it imperative to have a law to create, let us say, one-stop-shops on which pilot projects have already been carried out? In several municipalities such agencies have been working long enough. Is there a need for a separate law to improve e-government? Is it necessary to formulate principles of good administration, because Section 10 of the Law on State Administration already lays down these principles and could be supplemented with it... Is that so? These are all questions that should be asked - and they were also asked! - the Ministry presenting this draft law in a rather long debate, which resulted in the Commission not supporting the draft law for further consideration. In order to continue the examination, nine Members representing all the political groups voted out of the Commission... not all, but the majority, 2 abstained, and no one was in favour of continuing the examination. Now on the substance. Of the 28 draft laws, most are absolutely declarative. None of the experts who took part in the discussions - none, I underlined it! - had not expressed the idea that this draft law could be viewed without amendment... Furthermore, a number of experts, including highly respected experts, who I consider to be honourable experts, namely the Ministry of Justice, which had strongly opposed its viewing, and our Parliament's Legal Office, which very rarely submitted a written opinion on the draft law before zero reading with its strong rejection. Consequently, the decision in the commission was as it is. If the Saeima will support the further examination today, the further progress of this draft law, then a rather interesting wedding will come out: once it had already been examined, one time the opinion was formulated, but now, thanks to pressure from the ministry, we are trying to change what has been supported. That's the point one. Two points. In discussing this matter within the Commission, we have also agreed that the Ministry will improve the proposed law, taking into account all the criticisms that have been expressed and will submit it to the Commission. In its own name, the Commission, bypassing long bureaucratic procedures provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers' equipment law, will submit an improved regulatory act, in case it will be improved, to the Saeima for further consideration. The third thing I'd like to say. The attempt today to drive this bill forward with any force is a very elementary thing - to take away from your shoulders the responsibility for the brother that has been produced, because today what was mentioned by the parliamentary secretary... with all due respect!... but the examples he mentioned speak not about the nature and application of this law, but about quite other things that affect the efficiency of our public administration structures in general, and that is a completely different song and a completely different story. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the examination of this draft law not to continue at the 12th Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U99	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Einars Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U100	Honourable Members! In fact, the situation in the previous Saeima was similar when the National Administration and Municipal Commission did not support it (From the drug depot. Dolgopolovs: “The Commission did not support, the Saeima supported!” ) further progress of this draft law, but the general vote of the Saeima was different. During the period since the first reading, quite a large amount of work has actually been invested and these proposals have also been prepared. I guess we can do this right now... they can also be improved, and it therefore seems to me that it would be right to support this draft law now and to continue its examination, setting a sufficiently long deadline for the submission of proposals and preparing these proposals accordingly for second reading. So there are, of course, some legal disputes here: are these principles to be imposed by this law or by the law on the structure of the State administration. Well, let's say, this is a discussion... In particular, the draft law considered that this law was broader and concerned not only the field covered by the Law on Public Administration Structures, but that it works in an even broader way, which so... This can be discussed, but if this e-government and one-stop shop are to move forward, I think it would be right to give this once again... to support the continuation of the examination of this draft law today and then to address further issues already at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U101	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Mr Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U102	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In many places, Mr Dolgopolova is right, because the opinion of the Legal Bureau was indeed quite dramatic, and in fact that means... de facto, this means that someone has to take the law and this law must be reviewed from scratch or changed at least. It's not true in one way... only in the sense that everyone voted and everyone unanimously rejected it and decided to give it back to the government. We only did this because it was found as a compromise that this task force, which will recycle, will form outside the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of VARAM - we will help and then take it back. Why do Members support? I therefore support the fact that no one is calling into question the need for such a draft law. No one doubts that this is necessary, but at the same time everyone is aware of how difficult it is to implement. We were at the meeting of the Riga City Council and discussed it in the one-stop-shop, and the result is a rather sad conclusion (that is, to say, a bag for future activities): seeing all the difficulties that Riga, for example, had in trying to, let us say, force its capital companies to admit that it is necessary to create places where these services are in a unified system, it is very difficult to plant in front of how our ministries, those that are not connected to the regions, will be forced to provide these services in all places. The second issue that needs to be addressed is whether it can be done to the VARAM? Such a question arises not because it lacks the potential to create it in theory, but only because it is one of the ministries and not the "reministership" to which others would listen. The question arises: how can you force... Is that so? But we're still here today... We have decided to go back to the vote. Greens and Farmers will vote in favour. This draft law, however, needs to be recast in some way. Well, since the Saeima has had this experience, it's just a good drive... But - just on behalf of that service is very necessary! Only on the name that citizens in all regions expect of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U103	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U104	Dear colleagues, Indeed, it is a pleasure to speak to Mr Kučinska, and thank you very much for understanding that this bill is necessary, and thank you for your promise to vote in favour. Mr Dolgopolov has already noted that last Saeima... I also worked at the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, and the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government had a long discussion about this draft law. The Commission had decided by a majority not to support the draft law, but at the Saeima sitting the draft law was supported - precisely for the reasons mentioned by Mr Kučinski! - because the bill on a single public service is simply needed by citizens. We now have a situation where the various public services of the state and local authorities are very fragmented in territorial terms, the people are not easily accessible, and in the outermost regions the citizen is, in principle, unable to leave for this service in one day. We've had two successful pilot projects in Paradise and Auce, and I've met that experience myself. The managers of these regions have made it clear that the opportunity to offer public and municipal services in one place and to spend enough time to help perhaps fill in some forms or explain exactly what is due to this person... that it is very necessary for people in small regions. For example, for Roya residents some services are available in Talsi, while some are available in Ventspils. Well, think about the geography of Latvia! How can these people go to receive these services to these different Latvian cities?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The fact that the experience in Riga has been poor and the capital companies have not wanted to cooperate is a typical problem of Riga, because in Riga, for example, capital companies believe that they are so sovereign that they do not need to be given information, including information about their financial data, even to members of Riga City Council. So it's not surprising that there are problems there. However, I would like to call for instead of abandoning the problem by saying that there are some legal loopholes here, but still being prepared to deal with them. Dear colleagues, one of the priorities of the Latvian Presidency is digital Europe. In the first half of next year, Latvia will be the main driver of all the European Union's digital priorities and digital solutions. And it is very interesting that, in our negotiations with our fellow Members of the European Union, we often conclude that the ideas about our ability to find digital solutions in Europe are much better than we often think about them, because we have been quite far from digital solutions. But, you know, that is not thanks to public policy in some situations, but despite public policy, that we simply cannot adopt the necessary solutions in time and agree on the necessary solutions, despite the difficulties. We know very well that, for example, a situation in which we do not have the ability to electronically authenticate was resolved by the fact that commercial banks offered us such a service. And for a very long time we provided public services via www.latvija.lv using the service offered by these private entities for authentication. There is a very good opportunity to move towards one-stop-shops using information technology services. We have huge investments in existing information technologies and solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, let us just make this move in support of this draft law. But its defects will be possible here in the Saeima, to correct. We just have to want to do that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U105	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Sergey Dolgopolov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U106	Dear colleagues, However, I would like to clarify, Mr Kučinski! What you have said from the platform, I have already said clearly and lightly - both on the results of the vote and on the intentions that have been expressed and accepted by the Commission. The argument that VARAM has had too little ability to resolve this case, because it is only one of the ministries - it is not a reservation, because, to be honest, we have already specifically agreed that VARAM will prepare the material that it will be proposed not by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by other ministries, but by the Commission. One point. Two points. If we are talking about eGovernment, then it is not the subject of this law. It is a separate legislation that should be drawn up separately. Thirdly. If we are talking about this particular law, then we see what, out of 28 verses, nobody is reducing the administrative burden for citizens or business, although it was the main objective. And finally. This is one of those draft laws... From the Reform Party, the so-called ratchet package. Many of this legislative package... Many of them experienced a rather sad fate. Those accepted were improved from A to Z and from zero to maximum. This time in fact, I underlined once again! - is transfer of responsibility from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Ministry shoulders to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, to the Saeima as such. If you want to say that the capacity of the Saeima is greater than the capacity of the Cabinet of Ministers, then, unfortunately, I will not be able to agree to it. If you say that we need, in any case, to improve the brothers who are being prepared by the ministries and the Cabinet, I would not like to agree to this either. We live in a parliamentary republic, and you can't control what you're doing. I call for the continuation of this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U107	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Maris Kučinskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U108	However, I want to clarify. All due respect for Mrs. Chigan, but when it comes to capital companies, by the way, I didn't think they were bad... And if we look here for politics in every place, then in some way we will not be far away with this law in the Saeima too. It was precisely against the ministries. I will immediately state the arguments that we will hear soon when we start working on this draft law: if we already provide coverage across Latvia and if our services are already available, then why do we need some more institutions? I am thinking of the ministries, of the fact that every restaurant seems self-sufficient and that every restaurant, even without actually making any commitment between its agencies, will certainly resist anything else... But it would still be half a sorrow. The other one is... It is once again true to Mr Dolgopolova - for quality and what he is saying. In fact, the law is already moving towards it - and also the concept itself - that we will create a new institution, which will adjust the existing institutions, that we have a great risk of moving it forward within the existing legislation, making it still in all municipalities through some new institution, without reducing and doing anything with the flow of existing documents. That is why, once again, I am simply calling for us to plant ourselves in front of those who stand in front of us for a grand job! And yet I think the Saeima and the government, or whatever... that we all have to do this... to do, without restricting: “Let them do, we will stay out!” This is our common task, and we must do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U109	Thank you. The floor will be discussed by Mr Ringold Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U110	Hello, colleagues! Mr Kučinska is not right in that everyone in the Commission has voted against. The representative of our group, Mr Mežecka, voted in favour. That would be the first. Secondly. I can say, after hearing what Lolita Chigana said and what Mr Dolgopolova said: both of them are, to a large extent, right, but we are in favour of bringing the draft law forward at first reading, I will say it straight away. It's a story about the fact that you can't really mix everything in one quail - let's say, portal www.latvija.lv. and these one-stop-shop points in the regions. Because speaking from the perspective of the Register of Enterprises, it should be said that the Ministry of Sprūdžis, if it can express itself, provided money to the Register of Enterprises only on the condition that the Register of Enterprises will provide electronic registration, but in the end it could not be www.latvija.lv, nor the Register of Enterprises could normally provide electronic registration. When it comes to regions, I think it must be said that everything with just one idea - unify... to put together one point simply because it has to be done - I think it is stupid, because not in all places this is possible. There must be a smart approach, a differentiated approach and, of course, work on this draft law. Because it is not possible to defeat the SRS and the Register of Enterprises only with the idea that they should be together, and plus also provide a separate institution, such as a family list department. So there must be a sensible approach. But, of course, it is a task, already in the law writing. But we don't have to mix that electronic, let's say, aspect with one-stop-shop! So we are in favour, but we now need to work quite seriously, because the draft law is currently of poor quality.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U111	Thank you. The debate is closed. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Public Service Law” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 21, for - 4. The draft law “Public Service Law” will be discussed at the 12th Saeima. The committee responsible for the previous Saeima was the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members have reservations that this commission is also responsible for this Saeima?... ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Maybe Juridical!” ) Was this a serious proposal? ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “No, thank you!” ) So, as I understand it, there are two proposals: to define the commission of the National Administration and Local Government or to designate the legal commission of the commission of responsibility. The first... We must vote in favour of the first proposal, so that the commission responsible is the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government. Please call me! We will vote for the fact that the Commission of State Administration and Local Government will be responsible for the draft law “Public Services Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - no, for - 23. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government shall be established for the commission responsible. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals. Turn on, please, a microphone member, Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U112	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 1, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U113	April 1, 2015. Do Members agree? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Bondars is applauding.) Members agree. I'm sorry, turn on the microphone for Lolita Chigan!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U114	My proposal is on 1 March 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U115	March 1st. So we have two proposals. First of all, we must vote on the next deadline. Please call me! Let us vote on the proposal to set a deadline for the submission of proposals on 1 April. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 47, for - 3. The proposal on 1 April is therefore not supported. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 1 March. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Parliamentary Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” submitted by... ( From the medicine, “Regulatory! ”) ) I am sorry, ‘On the recognition of regulated professions and professional qualifications’, requested by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with Article 39 of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure. The draft law has also been examined by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. And on behalf of this commission, Member Sylvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U116	Hello, colleagues! I'll be very brief. In the Commission, we really looked at the draft law that is linked to and on which this bill is based... is its basic law, and we have perhaps paid less attention to it because it is related to this. But the essence is the next one I'm going to talk about. Thus, this draft law establishes that the profession of psychologist is determined as a regulated profession, as well as that the requirements for the education and professional qualification of psychologist and certified psychologist are determined by the Law on Professional Activities of Psychologists and that the right of a person to independently provide the services of psychologist is certified by a certificate of psychologist issued in accordance with the procedure laid down by laws and regulations. The draft law is directly related to the draft law on psychologists, which includes key aspects of the regulation of the profession of psychologist, including issues related to the certification of psychologist, competences and responsibilities. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to put this issue on the next agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U117	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft law passed on to the 12th Saeima. In the previous Saeima, the commission responsible for this draft law was the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Are Members against the fact that this is also the committee responsible in this Saeima? Members shall not object. In that case, please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U118	The Commission's proposal is for the second reading to submit proposals by 27 March 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U119	March 27th. Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. So March 27th. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, which is requested by the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure in accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure for further consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of the 12th Saeima. Karlis Šadurskis, Member of the Parliamentary Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U120	Dear colleagues, This draft law is linked to both of those mentioned by Mrs Šimfas and it would be logical if the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission were a co-responsible commission. On behalf of the Commission, I do not oppose the continuation of this draft law at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U121	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The examination of the draft law will continue at the 12th Saeima. Please clarify what is then the proposal for which the Commission to be responsible, because I understood that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) was in charge of the previous Saeima, but just from Mr Šadurski said that he would like it to be looked at by the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U122	No, no. Ladies and gentlemen, these three draft laws are, of course, moving in a coherent way, and it would be good if our commission were to be responsible for taxes and duties.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U123	Yeah. Do Members have reservations that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is looking at this bill? There's no objection. In that case, please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U124	March 27, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U125	March 27th. Are other proposals? There are no other proposals. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on psychologists, which is also requested by the Cabinet of Ministers in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure for further consideration at the 12th Saeima, but the draft law has also been reviewed by the Commission of Social Affairs and Labour. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U126	Thank you. The draft law will regulate the scope of the professional activities of psychologists in the country, establishing clear criteria for the education and experience of psychologists, establishing the rights and duties of psychologists and their clients, as well as the responsibility of psychologists for their professional activities. The requirements laid down by law for practitioners will ensure public interest in receiving high-quality psychologist’s services, provide sensitive information about persons, psychologist’s client, protection and confidentiality, as well as possibilities for any person to defend his rights and interests if it suffers damage due to the activities of the psychologist. Please support the progress of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U127	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “The Law of Psychologists” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. Draft law was referred to the 12th Saeima. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission was responsible for this draft law in the previous Saeima. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U128	Deadline for the second reading of the proposals - March 27, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U129	March 27th. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is March 27. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (registration number 134/Lp12). The Cabinet of Ministers shall also request that it be reviewed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U130	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has already examined the whole set of draft laws, the examination of which was not completed in the previous Saeima, and has taken its decision on each of these draft laws. With regard to this draft law, we have not tabled a proposal to the Saeima to continue its examination. At the moment, we have not received any new additional information from the Cabinet of Ministers that would lead to a review of this decision, so on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) I invite you not to continue the examination of this draft law at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U131	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (registration number 134/Lp12) at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 73, for - 2. The 12th Saeima will not continue to consider the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next section of the draft law on the agenda, we need to decide on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for changes to the agenda of today's meeting and to exclude the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to Commercial Law" (No.140/Lp12) from the agenda of today's meeting. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the law “On individual (family) business and farmer or fisherman’s farm”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, the rapporteur was Mr Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U132	Yes, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the law “On individual (family) enterprise and farmer or fisherman’s farm” at second reading. Given that the draft law is urgent and that no proposal has been received in this draft law, I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of the draft law at second, final, reading!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U133	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On individual (family) enterprise and farmer or fisherman’s farm” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 85, it's two, it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the insolvency law, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U134	Honorable Chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! We work with the draft law ‘Amendments to the insolvency law’. I would remind you that the main purpose of this draft law was to postpone the entry into force of the previously adopted law until 1 March of the following year. The Commission has received 8 proposals and examined them. 1. - the proposal by Member Andreja Judin that the administrator's certificate be terminated in the event of an administrative penalty imposed on the administrator for the administrative irregularity - exclusion of certain positions in commercial companies. The Commission had a discussion on this proposal. Members of the Commission expressed the view that the question was about proportionality, as in about 26 cases the Latvian Administrative Violations Code imposed such a penalty. To give just one example: violation of the ban on the employment of foreigners in the absence of a work permit. Well, such employment is obviously not linked to insolvency proceedings. It was also argued that such a result with regard to the administrative irregularity and the specific penalty, namely the termination and withdrawal of the certificate, could be in cases where the administrator, for example, committed an administrative irregularity in the area of prevention of corruption or insolvency, but no such proposals were submitted to the Commission. It should be noted that these proposals were not supported by the Legal Office for these reasons too.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U135	Thank you. Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U136	Dear colleagues, I submitted three proposals for the relevant draft law, and in essence they are all related to Article 17 of the law. Article 17 deals with the suspension, termination or revocation of the administrator's certificate. All proposals are different, but they also share a common idea. In particular, I think it is very important that people with a good reputation work as administrators. But we can't record it, because right away there will be a question: What does it mean, and how does the reputation of one or the other become damaged? So I offer three separate solutions. And the first question relates to this situation. Namely, if a person is subject to an administrative penalty - disqualification of the right to take up certain positions in commercial companies... That is, if he has committed a serious violation of his activities and he has been administratively punished for that, then he cannot deal with his actions... Can such a person be entrusted with the administration of insolvency proceedings? I don't think so. Consequently, I propose that, in this case too, a person will not be able to act as the administrator of insolvency proceedings. We have a number of cases where he cannot work - for example, if he has committed a criminal offence or if he has been declared bankrupt himself... the insolvency proceedings of a natural person. There are other cases. I heard from our invited experts: if we prohibit him from working as an administrator, he will be punished twice. But not at all! For if a person commits an offence and has been punished, it has various consequences. Everyone understands, for example, that when a person is called criminally, he cannot work as a prosecutor, as a police officer, he cannot work as a teacher, he cannot be elected President of Latvia and so on. So one action has several consequences. And that should be the case here, too. If a person has the right penalty that he must not work... I'm sorry! There should not be certain positions in commercial companies, then, in my opinion, he must not be an administrator of insolvency proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U137	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U138	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U139	There is nothing to add on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Andrey Judeen's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 10, for - 52, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U140	Thank you, colleagues. The next, 2nd, is the proposal of Member Andrejs Judin, which provides that the Association of Certified Administrators of the Bankruptcy Procedure of Latvia, upon entering into the conditions referred to in Section 17, second paragraph of the Solvency Law, should be accepted mandatory - therefore mandatory! - the decision to terminate the certificate. In particular, such a decision should necessarily be taken in the event that the administrator concerned has twice been removed from his duties. Well, in a way, this proposal is linked to the previous one, and the arguments were similar. And the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U141	Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U142	Mr Berzine is right in that this proposal is also designed to change the situation and to ensure that people with a good reputation are employed as administrators of insolvency proceedings. However, it is different in nature. According to the law now comes out... the situation arises: if a person was working as an administrator of insolvency proceedings and he was removed twice from his duties... In particular, if he committed such an infringement, two different courts decided in two different proceedings that he should not be an administrator, the person may also appeal in those cases, so that two more courts can look at the matter and reconfirm and decide that, yes, he cannot be an administrator. And this man can... The fate of this person can be decided. Now it's written in law that this man... a decision on the termination of the administrator's certificate may be taken... That is, despite the fact that two or four courts have dealt with the matter, he may lose the certificate, but he may not lose it. Well, you can imagine a situation that man... that the decision was taken by a court... it has been ordered to do so by decision of the court. What happens next? The Latvian Association of Certified Administrators of insolvency proceedings evaluates the judgement, the decision that has entered into force. And it can be concluded that, despite the decisions made, the person can continue to work. I think this is wrong, and I call for the definition of... include an imperative provision: if there has been a relevant case, he loses the opportunity to work as administrator. Despite the fact that some colleagues did not support or abstain from the previous vote, I call for this proposal to be supported, because it is different, and this is not the case if you vote in favour, without the system being destroyed. There will simply be clear legal consequences: if twice is abolished, then it will no longer be possible to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U143	Thank you. Name in the debate for Member Lolita Chiganė.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U144	Dear colleagues, Yesterday we agreed on Latvia's state budget for 2015. It is very encouraging that we have received a positive assessment from the European Union of our budget, because all the basic indicators are being implemented very well by our budget, so as critical comments, such as many of the much older Member States of the European Union, such as France, will certainly not be available. However, there is one critical remark in this comment by the European Commission on our budget: there is not enough investment in Latvia: foreign investment. Dear colleagues, how is this related to this insolvency law? It's connected in the most direct way! For several months already many of you have received publications from several banks operating in Latvia for the fact that the very poor insolvency practice and irresponsibility of administrators and judges undermines the willingness of these banks to grant loans for investments that are very necessary in the Latvian economy. Dear colleagues, We need to strengthen the responsibilities of insolvency administrators so that this area can start to be regularised and that commercial banks do not fear to provide credit, to multiply the risk that, in the event that a company that has received credit fails, this commercial bank will fall into the rank of unsecured creditors and will not be able to recover its financial investments in any way. Dear colleagues, This is an economic issue, and our economic environment is currently seriously threatened by this very unpleasant Latvian innovation - a kind of insolvency reiderism that is happening to us in very many cases. I am asking for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U145	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U146	Yes, unfortunately, on behalf of the Commission, I cannot add anything because Mrs Chigane's statement was not essentially related to this proposal. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Andrey Judeen's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! To - 38, to - 18, to - 21, to - 21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U148	Thank you. 3. There is also a proposal from Member Andrejs Judin, on which the Legal Commission had discussions. The proposal provides that a decision on the termination of the certificate shall be taken if during the last two years of the certificate of the administrator the insolvency administrator has recognised violations of laws and regulations twice in the operation of the administrator, but the Commission has seen several problems here. First of all, according to the second paragraph of Article 175 in force, it is possible to appeal against this decision of the insolvency administration, which is very important, despite the fact that the appeal does not suspend the operation. However, Member Judin could not answer the question as to what action would then have been required if the insolvency administrator had, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 174, imposed on the administrator a legal obligation that would have been fulfilled, for example, a report on insolvency proceedings had been submitted. In the context of this proposal, the Bureau also noted the importance of taking into account this possibility of appeal, which is not reflected in the wording proposed in this Article 3.1. Here, too, it should be noted that in relation to, maybe a slightly similar situation, on 7 July 2014 the Constitutional Court initiated a case on compliance of the wording of Section 363.8 of Civil Procedure Law previously in force with the Satversme. And on the basis of these arguments, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U149	Let's start a debate. There will be a debate on the name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U150	This time very briefly. Only in connection with the Constitutional Court case. Yes, very often we hear such an argument: it is better not to change anything, because the Constitutional Court can cancel and there will be certain consequences. Colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is a case that has been initiated, but it has been initiated in accordance with the version of the law in force until 2010. Until 2010, there was a situation where no appeal could be made. Now the law is amended and there is a possibility. Therefore, my suggestion: neither to scare people with the Constitutional Court today nor in the future when there is no reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U151	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “No, no! Don’t be afraid!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U152	I would just like to add, on behalf of the Commission, that your wording, Mr Judine, does not provide for appeals when there is such an administrative decision. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U153	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Andrey Judeen's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 20, for - 21. The proposal is supported. ( A certain group of Members applauds its unity.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U154	Yeah, thank you. 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is a technical proposal which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U155	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U156	The proposal in turn is the Member Andrejs Elksniņš' proposal, which provides for an extension of the time during which the natural person - the debtor - has the right to submit the relevant application for discharge in insolvency proceedings. Under the proposed new regulation, the number of these days would not be 30, but 60. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported, given that the entry into force has now been postponed and this issue is therefore not relevant.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U157	Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Andrey Elksny's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 49, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U158	Thank you. 6. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which is more editorial. We see that these amendments have been made in the form of the first reading, so this proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U159	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U160	7. - the proposal from Member Andrejs Elksniņš, which has not been supported by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U161	Let's start a debate. The floor will be held for the Member Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U162	Dear Members, There are some very interesting things that we had not talked about before. First of all, it is necessary to recall why this is going on on March 1. The answer is very simple: the Ministry of Justice has not submitted the necessary amendments to the Civil Procedure Law in due time in order to provide the procedure for the substantive amendments that we adopted due to insolvency reform. We set them the date of entry into force - 1 January. And then it happened that suddenly one of the sittings of the Legal Commission... When it was five minutes before the meeting, the National Association was the person of the Minister of Justice! - submitted proposals to the Legal Commission. Well, please, maybe you're on your own... submit these amendments accordingly. The Legal Commission did not support it at that time. The Saeima also did not support this, after the National Association, five minutes before the Saeima meeting, asked for this item to be put on the agenda. That was its legislative procedure. Now, because Parliament has been unable to introduce amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, it comes up with proposals to move all the issues and this fundamental reform to March 1, because the banks have suddenly started to frown coalition Members and say that, however, perhaps we should try and, in some way, reduce the issue to a large extent. And the most interesting thing is that the representatives of the National Union in the hysteria had dedicated their refutations to absolutely everyone for not supporting their amendments to the Civil Procedure, but at the same time they were in favour of postponing this reform to March 1. At the same time, today's amendments, on which you worked on the responsibility of the members of the board, were intended to be dealt with in two readings in one sitting... submit for first-reading and second-reading a draft law on the liability of members of the Management Board. Well, is this not a double-moral exercise by the same national association that does not want these amendments to enter into force? What do I ask with this proposal, colleagues? All right, amendments to Civil Procedure Law are not ready! Why aren't you ready? Because the Ministry of Justice was sitting all the time and together with the Minister of Justice, then Mr. Gaidi Berzins, and with current ministers in silence hoped that the President of Latvia would simply not announce this essential package. And that's it! And so the regulatory mechanism, as it could enter into force, was not developed. Let us assume that they made a mistake and showed their incompetentness, but what now is preventing us from adopting amendments to the Civil Procedure Law during one sitting? And today, with regard to the amendments on the responsibility of the members of the board, we are showing that this is possible. Well, then I am calling for it to be done! This is first and foremost. Second round. What do I ask for in this proposal? In order to support the norm, where amendments to the Civil Procedure Law are not necessary, which provides for a reduction of the time limits for exit of insolvency proceedings for persons, and for which there is also a request from the Association of Certified Administrators of insolvency proceedings in Latvia. And Mr Burns also knows very well what negotiations are going on to make this process easier for people, but he also goes with the aim of transferring it to March 1. What then makes sense not to support this proposal, if not just lobbying the banks? So to say, the glaciers are trying, however, to breathe up until some point and, by 1 March then, to shift this reform to a much longer period, too, in this point. I do not really understand the duality shown by the National Association on this issue, I do not understand the duality that the Legal Commission is doing when it votes on a number of proposals - initially by supporting them, but then suddenly by rejecting them with rehearsals, on the basis of an agreement reached by the coalition, so that it would not be... I call, however, for great care to be taken and for this proposal to support the entry into force of a single rule, namely point 65 of the transitional provisions, so that it can be supported. No amendments to the Civil Procedure Law... their entry into force is not necessary, this norm is indeed valid and necessary for our people.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U163	Thank you. The floor in the debate is for the Member, Mr Barzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U164	Dear colleagues, I also do not understand the duality of Mr Elksniņš, because if you really wanted to accept the relevant amendments to the Civil Procedure Law, to which you refer and which have some connection with this draft law, you, as an experienced lawyer, could, in my opinion, read these individual norms, which were proposed by the Ministry of Justice. I think that you could quickly focus on these norms and introduce them to the Members of your group, because it was too late when you obviously understood what these amendments to the Civil Procedure Law were about. You simply obviously did not have time to focus on this question. However, we are now where we are, and the Saeima has referred these amendments to the Civil Procedure Law to the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission will, of course, work on these amendments, and I think that our aim is to introduce this regulation from 1 March. I would definitely like to say that, at least in this section, which was discussed by Mr Elksniņš, that is to say, the reduction of the deadlines for decommitment... As we remember, this was the purpose for which this law was opened. I think that there will be no transposition deadline on 1 March, at least the National Alliance will not come with such encouragement. And we will do our utmost to bring these deadlines into force, also in the knowledge of the situation with the number of debtors who have been unable to meet their debts from the times when the banks conducted a policy of "gas on the floor".
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U165	Thank you. Name to Member Andrejs Elksniņš, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U166	Mr. Burns! I would perhaps like to agree with you on one point. The only thing I have left in my memory of what you have just said is: “We are where we are.” But now it's about the facts. On 6 October, the President of Latvia announced amendments to the insolvency law. October 6th! Answer the question: on what date you set aside for the Legal Commission sitting - you did. - amendments to the Civil Procedure Law? Well, which one? Can you tell me? At the end of November. How much time did you need? Then what happened? At the sitting on 4 December, you suddenly woke up. That question was referred to the 4th meeting on December, you withdrew your previously signed amendments to the Civil Procedure. You also withdrew them! Why? Because you reached an agreement suddenly - to move this issue to March. You play a two-way game in this situation. On Monday you shout that this question is vitally important and it needs to be accepted, and on Tuesday you say, “Well, you didn’t support us on Monday, so now we’re telling you “fi” and turning around and leaving!” But that is what you do. On the legislative procedure. You say: to present my group colleagues to adopt a decision. Five-ten-- Before the meeting of the Legal Commission, we receive your draft. But you don’t even say, “Well, we give it in!” You say: “We don’t submit. Put it in our place!’ And the Minister of Justice does this, asking the Legal Commission! And what you want now is that within five minutes we don’t get to know either the annotation or any documents that we’ll say to you, “Yes, we’ll run ahead and support what you’re heading for!”
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U167	Thank you. The floor will be debated for the second time. ( From the drug: “Last! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U168	Yes, colleagues! Mr Elksniņš, as an experienced Member, you know very well that the Ministry of Justice does not go to the Legal Commission in the way you teach it. ( From the drug depot. A. Elbow’s mids.) You know very well that in the Ministry of Justice, the legislative process also includes discussions in a working group involving experts. Indeed, on 6 October this law was announced and at the same time work started on the drafting of these amendments. As soon as these amendments were drawn up, they were submitted to the Legal Commission. And you know very well that there were also parliamentary elections at this time. Consequently, the work of the Legal Commission may not have taken place at the rhythm that it should take place in the day-to-day process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U169	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything else to be added on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U170	No, thank you. This proposal has not received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U171	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Andrey Elksny's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 47, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U172	Colleagues, 8 is a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is more editorial and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U173	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U174	Thank you. We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” in the second, in this case final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U175	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” at second, final, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 53, for - 22, for - 10. The law is passed. The next item is the bill "Amendments to Copyright", second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U176	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”. The draft law is seen as urgent. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U177	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U178	2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office. Terrologically. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U179	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U180	3. is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbards, which is linked to the extension of the term so that the Ministry of Culture can successfully prepare the legislative documents which this draft law imposes on it. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U181	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U182	And 4 is the proposal of Minister of Culture Daces Melbārds, which intends to supplement the draft law with an article on the entry into force of the law. It states that the law shall enter into force on the day following that of its promulgation. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U183	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U184	On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to Copyright Law".
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U185	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U187	The next item is the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism", third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Mihail Zemlinski.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U188	Colleagues! We will work with document No.250 - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”. No proposals for the third reading of the draft law have been tabled. Therefore, please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U189	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Finalisation of Privatisation and Use of Privatisation Certificates of State and Local Authorities”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U190	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Finalisation of Privatisation and Use of Privatisation Certificates of State and Municipal Property”. In total, three proposals have been submitted to the Commission. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U191	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U192	2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U193	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U194	And 3. - last - there is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U195	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U196	Consequently, all three proposals have been examined. Please support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U197	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Property and Use of Privatisation Certificates”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U198	Yes, colleagues! We will wait until 9 January 2015 for constructive proposals to be made by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U199	January 9. Members agree. The next item on the agenda is the draft law “Law on Public Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U200	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! We see the draft law “State Service Law”. This is a successor to the Civil Service Law, which has been in force for more than ten years, so since 2001. During this time the norms of the law have been improved, as well as practice in application of these norms has developed. Public administration must be a competitive employer not only in Latvia, but also in Europe. The main current trends in the reform of the European civil service are the following: equalisation of employment conditions for civil servants and public administration staff, a key role to be played in giving private sector experience, career development and the creation of a pay system; the linking of pay systems to performance through widespread use of job performance assessments; open competitions for any post, flexibility in employment conditions and delegation of responsibilities to direct managers. The Cabinet of Ministers has adopted the concept of human resources development of the State administration some time ago, in 2012, and on the basis of it this draft Law on State Service has been developed, which, therefore, revitalizes this concept. There will, of course, also be a number of other draft laws, but this is the key. What is planned in it different from the previous Law on State Civil Service? First, improving the legal relationship between employees in public administration by establishing a single employment relationship for all in public administration. It is planned to ensure the implementation of the principle of "public administration as a single employer" (already there is a uniform legal framework for officials and employees in the field of remuneration and assessment of performance of work), establishing a single employment relationship in direct management bodies. They will no longer be governed by two different laws. Currently they are partly regulated by the State Civil Service Law and partly by the Labour Law, but in the future there will be one by the State Civil Service Law. It is also an opportunity to address the issue of joint disciplinary responsibility for officials and staff. At present, only two disciplinary sanctions - a note or a roll - can be imposed on employees. The introduction of a single employment relationship will allow for a more effective and less resource-efficient staff record-keeping function in the institution and will not require a thorough knowledge of the two different procedural rules and case-law when dealing with employment disputes. At present, too much resources are being spent on managing and maintaining staff records, and only the remainder of the time can be devoted to the strategic development of human resources. A single employment relationship is also a condition for the introduction of a functioning mobility system within public administration and the implementation of the idea of public administration as a single employer. Second important change: tenders for all posts will be open. Open competitions are currently organised only for civil servants, but in future they will be open to both civil servants and employees. Thirdly, incentive systems and professional development measures, development of the system. It is planned to set up a free training programme for young officials and staff, heads of institutions, as well as a talent management system. The possibilities to organise internal competitions in public administration have been expanded to facilitate the development of experts from public administration. The possibilities for rotation have been expanded both within restaurants, where there are different employment relationships and within public administration. The possibility to temporarily transfer an official or employee to a municipal institution or even a commercial company is also foreseen. The aim of this rotation is to increase the expertise of experts and not to lose the best experts by enabling them to complement their knowledge elsewhere and to ensure good governance by making full use of the human resources available in the restaurant. The rotation will also promote the creation of a unified institutional culture and cooperation within the state administration within and between the same restaurant. Thus, this Law will not apply to officials of the Ministry of the Interior system with special service grades and to officials of the administration of detention places of the Ministry of Justice with special service grades, as well as to the employees of state security institutions and support personnel of the Cabinet of Ministers who are heads of offices, advisers and so on. Nor will it apply to municipal officials, although at first such an idea was... But then, when the commission dealt with this issue, the local authorities said... It came very pragmatic. They said: “Let’s see how this will work for public administration! If that works well, then maybe we will join... Let us look at the possibility of joining this system." And now I want to say a few more practical things that will then be achieved by this new draft law. So actually... You too, when you go to a public institution, have ever experienced some particular attitude or misunderstanding of the employees there, and therefore know how the opposite side feels - especially the businessman, when you go to an official who may never have been... Thus, he has not worked in the private sector, so he does not really understand the pain of this entrepreneur or the substance of his problems. So actually now this law will be an opportunity to entic even the officials to someone... even on a state-owned company or similar, to create them this experience, which is of course positive. There are also two different attitudes to the official and to the employee. There have even been cases where, by committing the same offence, both at the same time, one has one punishment, and the other one has another, which is not really logical! ( From the drug depot. A. Berzins: “Well it’s clear!” ; dep. V.Orlovs: “Soon!” ) Also to decorate, for example, employees between the Ministry and the subordinate institution – it is really impossible at the moment... e.g. to decorate an employee from the Ministry of Economics to the Latvian Investment and Development Agency or vice versa. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Stop it!” ) And so there are a few more things - such as mediation - that are included in the bill, that is, when you don't go to court right away, but there's mediation here. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Law on Public Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - no, for - 27. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U202	Sorry about the long report, but the reform is very important. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 1 February 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U203	February 1. Members shall not object. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start to see the next item on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the proposal from five Members has been received (from the deposit of the Chamber. V.Ageshin: Surname! ) - to continue the sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? Yes, it has been tabled by Members Smilten, Abu Meri, Shadurski, Brigmanis and Zarins. ( From the hall: “A new coalition! ” ; dep. A.Bērzins: “These are the heroes!” ) So - do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The sitting is continued without interruption. The next item is the draft law on Slītere National Park Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U204	Dear colleagues, this is the second reading of the draft law on Slītere National Park. The commission responsible has received five proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U205	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U206	Two more. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which the Commission asks for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U207	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U208	3. - Legal Bureau's proposal on building regulation in the reserve neutral zone, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U210	4. - The legal bureau's proposal, more editorial, and their commission also supports.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U211	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U212	And to finish five. - Legal Bureau's proposal for regulation, which will be in force until the entry into force of the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers referred to in this Law. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U213	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U214	I therefore call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U215	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on Slītere National Park Law at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U216	January 9, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U217	January 9. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending civil law, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U218	Honorary Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, See ‘Amendments to civil law’ in the draft law. I would remind you that the draft law introduces an institution for building rights in order to avoid the so-called shared property in the future. The Legal Commission has received and examined eight proposals. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is editorialal and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U219	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U220	2. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau, which provides that, upon the expiry of the right of construction, all third parties' rights in the matters established by the right of construction shall be terminated. On the other hand, the next proposal, unfortunately also needs to be referred to, also provides for situations in which this right of construction cannot be terminated without the consent of third parties. I now go back to Amendment 2. As I said, this is a proposal from the Legal Office that has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U221	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U222	On the other hand, the third is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Dzintars Rasnačs, on which I have already expressed my support for the second proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U223	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U224	4. There is also a proposal from the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U225	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U226	5. is a proposal from the Legal Office, more technical, and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U227	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U228	6. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is supported and editorial.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U229	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U230	7. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U231	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U232	8. is a terminology proposal from the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs and is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U233	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U234	We have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law amending the Civil Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U235	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Civil Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U236	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 30, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U237	30. ... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U238	30. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U239	Yeah, so on January 30, 2015. There is no objection by Members. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the exchange of name and nationality, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U240	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” and has decided to support it and direct it to consideration at the Seimas sitting at second reading. The Legal Commission was not available, so no proposals were tabled, and therefore, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for this draft law to be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U241	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U242	The Commission is proposing on 23 December this year. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “It will not be possible!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U243	23 December. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U245	The next item is the draft law on the recognition of the Law on the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People's Front Museum, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U246	Colleagues, we are looking at the draft law “On the recognition of the Law “On the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum””. The Legal Commission has received two proposals after examining them. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U247	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U248	2 is also a proposal from the Legal Office. And this proposal is more related to the need for legal compliance and has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U249	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U250	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, the request is to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U251	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “On the recognition of the Law “On the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U252	The deadline for submitting proposals is December 23, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U253	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Application Procedure of the Entering into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U254	Colleagues, the draft law is linked to the just supported amendments to the Civil Law, introducing the institution of building law. The Commission has received two proposals. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides for the exclusion from the transitional provisions of the paragraph, which currently gives the right to form this divided property. Given that it will, hopefully, come into force after the third reading, the amendments to the Civil Law regarding this institution of building rights will not be necessary. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U255	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U256	And 2 is also the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, who is now calling for this period of entry into force to be deleted, which unfortunately has already passed, but the Commission will certainly work towards reviewing this draft law as soon as possible and later adopted by the Saeima. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U257	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U258	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Application Procedure of the Entry into Force and Application of the Section of Civil Law of the Renewed Republic of Latvia of 1937”, second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U259	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U260	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 30, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U261	January 30th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U262	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” (document No 271). The draft law for the second reading was submitted to the Saeima's Legal Bureau two proposals. Both proposals are editorial and clarify the text of the draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U263	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U264	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U265	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U266	As all the proposals have been examined, please support the draft law at second reading on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U267	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U268	The deadline for submitting proposals is December 23, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U269	23 December. Members shall not object. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". Draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U270	Dear colleagues, This year's budget programme, 'Ensure the functioning of the Saeima', will not spend 2 million EUR 894 000 EUR 552, and I call on you, colleagues, to agree to the reallocation of this appropriations to the national budgetary programme 'Unforeseeables'.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U271	Thank you. Let's start a debate. The floor will be held for Ms Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U272	Dear colleagues, As could have been expected, in the light of all yesterday's debate on the budget, and also in the light of this very special timetable for the adoption of the budget, EUR 1 million was allocated to distribution, and I hope that colleagues and you, our colleagues in the coalition, are aware that they are only 0,013 per cent of the total budget. And for them - and only for them! - we Members can answer. And these 0,013 percent of the government played us as such a baby rabble, and we made it fun, played and felt lost, and allowed the government to distribute more than EUR 2.30 million of funds for unforeseen events. But the appetite is already growing up eating and it seems that the Cabinet of Ministers has liked to be this generous Christmas grandfather, to be generous at Christmas. How else can we understand this draft decision by the Saeima, which intends to re-allocate EUR 2.8 million from the Saeima budget for the Contingency Facility programme? And are we waiting now for some special weather conditions? Does the National Security Council have any information about threats to Latvia? Who is planning to split the €5 million in this programme “Unforeseeables” with a light hand? And what are the challenges for the parliament behind the back of the House? At the same time, when discussing the state budget for 2015, we had no opportunity to support virtually nothing - neither additional funding for rehabilitation measures, salaries of teachers, nor health promotion measures. And, honourable Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this proposal provides that we re-allocate the funds planned for the Saeima from capital expenditure. Does only our group really feel that something is wrong? Firstly, we have to ask why, only at the end of December, we have noticed ourselves that the funds have not been spent in accordance with the plan, and we are redeploying them by entrusting them to the government for their understanding? Secondly, we should answer the question why the annual state budget norm, which provides for action in these cases, is not applied in this case when the implementation of the investment project has been delayed. It would be legal and responsible to transfer these funds to the reserve appropriations for the next year's use of the buildings on Jēkaba Street 6/8 for further reconstruction. Instead, the funds will be spent in a hurry this year to re-planned them in the 2015 budget. It is not responsible and equal for all institutions, and unfortunately once again it must be made clear that the principle of "One Truth and One Law for All" is not working. Unfortunately, this is not for everyone! The Cabinet gave you the opportunity to allocate EUR 1 million to the 2015 budget, in return for a generous Christmas gift - permission to allocate EUR 2.8 million to the government itself. Even if you have voted hard for the 2015 budget, this is the time to realise that the Saeima must set a model for society with its decisions. I call for these amendments not to be supported by allowing the next year to start with a EUR 2.89 million increase in the financial margin, even if, in the next year when there will be a need for resources for something essential, the government would have less chance of taking a stand for the lack of money. And I would like to add that this morning, too, when we read the news that the resources of those people who still need rehabilitation and who have suffered the tragedy of Zolitude, as well as the relatives of the dead who still need this rehabilitation, have come to an end. Perhaps we will respect that part of society that deserves us to see that they need our support very much! Thank you. ( The philosophies of the NSL fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U273	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U274	Many, my colleague. It seems that by supporting the many proposals for the 2015 state budget yesterday, the Saeima has taken the quick credit to the Government of the Republic of Latvia, but today this quick credit is rushed to give back... return without asking where it will then be spent. ( From the drug depot. L. Chigan intersacres.) And then, when the Ministry of Finance was asked by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission: "How are we going to spend this money here from the Saeima on unforeseen occasions?" , their response was: “There are a lot of needs in the country.” ( The transcripts are: “Rightly! ”) ) Yes, true! This could also have been observed yesterday at the time of the adoption of the budget. There were churches, associations, and brothers. It was all there! Your interests were a little bit, but they were satisfied. You know, I also met people in 2014. , who could have benefited from yesterday. One of them was a Children’s Hospital surgeon who had just left the room after the next surgery at 11.00 a.m. after a long working day to find out that he had two more operations ahead of him, or two operating children. I met a teacher, Mrs. Barch. A.Barča: “And what?” ) who had little children at home and who could survive with the income we made available for three weeks from 30 days. I also met a guy who has been on watch for years about Latvia and sees that many of their colleagues are changing service to a decent life. But they're... they, Mrs. Viņķele. That long list of your yesterday I didn't find. ( From the drug depot. E.Smilten: “Mr Bondara, for the thing! The specific question!’ ) I understand that during this period of miracles, you hope that by giving more than 2 million to the government, the government will, in a biblical spirit, take care of both the number of doctors required in the hospital for children and the number of teachers who can not only survive for their salary, but also live, and that safety will also be for those people who protect the state of Latvia. Your hope of a biblical scenario is the only justification for your vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U275	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky. ( Medications.) ( Medications.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U276	Dear colleagues, As it was my duty yesterday to report on the bill 'On the State Budget 2015', then it is time I took some responsibility for the fact that, because of my failed report, Mrs Silver had not really understood what we were doing yesterday. Mrs Silver, I must correct what you said: we distributed yesterday not EUR 1 million, as you said, but more than EUR 7.5 billion. I'm sorry if I managed this procedure so vaguely! ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciated. From the opposition fractions, the intermediate cry: ‘How shame!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U277	Thank you. Name to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U278	Dear colleagues, It was interesting for me to listen to both representatives of the opposition, because there is demagogia in the Saeima, there is a great deal of demagogy and there can be a speech from our colleagues. I was surprised that demagogy could be well informed - it was presented by Mrs Silver, who was at the meeting of the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit, when we spoke specifically about the Saeima budget. And why was EUR 2.8 million left? Because we have a building to be rebuilt, where... it was found that the ground condition was that there was a need for serious reinforcement work, and therefore the construction could not be continued. Underground reinforcement and design works are under way. And logically, this money cannot be kept, and it would be illegal if the Saeima kept something in the savings box instead of returning it to the state budget. Mr Bondara, on the other hand, using his speaker's skills and a well-prepared speech, to which he only put his bow in front of him, once again spoke about what, but not about the particular issue. The specific issue was the reallocation of appropriations. And, of course, the Saeima will support this decision regardless of how it is delivered. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L.Čigane laughter, audience.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U279	Thank you. Name to Member Guntis Belevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U280	Sir, Dear colleagues, Of this money, 1 million will be compensated for medicines, and I call for this proposal to be supported. This will be the solution next year to the issue of medical food for children - those children who are fed with a probe. And we'll have money oncological medications. I call not only on the members of the position, but also on the opposition to support this proposal, as 1 million of this money comes from medicine. Thank you. ( Unity of Fraction and Fragmentation of the ZZS fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U281	Thank you. The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U282	Thank Minister Belevičs for his explanation. He was the only one who was able to explain clearly at least part of this designation of funds. The Ministry of Finance was unable to do this, at least not in the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U283	Thank you. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U284	High Minister, Mr Bellevičs! Tell me, is it recorded somewhere, is that just your statement? I read the bill, and there is something else: funds for unforeseen events. But why do you think that sharing money is a government responsibility? The budget shall be approved by the Saeima. And if you really want to re-allocate this amount in such a way that a million are allocated directly to compensating medicines, then why didn't you write it in the bill? You believe that Members cannot vote for this themselves?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You know... Well, it's hard for me to say that I don't believe you, but... Until now, however, there is a certain division of responsibilities between the executive and the co-legislators. And if that is your intention, coalitions and governments, then why didn't you write it in this bill? A very simple question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U285	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U286	Colleagues! I listen to what is going on now, and I have one anecdotes coming to my mind. A.Bērzins: “That’s right! It has not been long ago!” ) - anecdote on how crocodile Gena and Pekous divided oranges. Pecous arrives at the crocodile Gena and simply puts him in front of the fact, saying: “We were sent 10 oranges. Good news! Each in eight!” What Gena says: “Wait, wait, Pecous! If there are 10 oranges and we divide them in half, then each in eight does not come.” Pecous answers: “I don’t know, I don’t know, Gena! I already ate my eight!” That is how we divide this budget.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U287	The debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, does Member Shadurski want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U288	Yes, honourable colleagues, I would like to make it clear that, in accordance with the law on the state budget for 2014, which provides for a mechanism for re-allocation of appropriations, if the Saeima wants these funds, which are not spent within this appropriation, to be really used for the purposes mentioned by Mr Belevič, then the only mechanism is, as is the law, to carry out this re-allocation of appropriations so that the government can further allocate them to the positions that Mr Belevič spoke about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U289	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 33, for - 1. Decision adopted. (Applause) The next item is the draft decision on the audit of the 2014 financial statement in the State Audit Office. On behalf of the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U290	Colleagues, on this draft decision! As stipulated by the Law on the State Audit Office, the Saeima shall select, in accordance with the procedure of competition of the Saeima, a sworn auditor or a sworn auditor for the purpose of carrying out an audit of the annual financial statement of the State Audit Office. The Public Expenditure and Audit Commission of the Saeima chose this commission, the Bureau approved, and the Procurement Commission has carried out the procedures laid down in the Law on Public Procurement and recognised SIA “Audirfirma Gards” as the winner of the procurement. I invite the Saeima to approve SIA Auditorfirma Vārds as the auditor of the State Audit Office of the Republic of Latvia for the financial year 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U291	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On audit of the 2014 financial statement in the State Audit Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Before we look at the last item on the agenda approved, I informed you that two draft laws had been submitted today at the Saeima Registry at 11.58 p.m. and 11.57 by Members Dainis Liepiņš, Nellija Kleinberga, Juris Viļums, Jānis Ruks, Mārtiņš Šics and Mārtiņš Bondars. One of these draft laws is entitled “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President of Latvia”, the other is the draft law presented by the same Members “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. Thus, Members Liepiņš, Kleinberga, Viļums and Bondars are asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” and the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election of the President”. In any case, we must decide on each of these draft laws separately, whether we include them or not on the agenda of the Saeima's sitting today. And so the question is: do Members have reservations that the draft law "Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia" is on the agenda of today's sitting? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “There are objections!” ) Members have reservations. We therefore need to distinguish this issue by voting. Member Liepiņš wants to say something about the procedure? You're pressing the button all the time. You can speak for just five minutes “for” or five minutes “for”... for inclusion or non-inclusion. If that is the case, please give the name to the Member Dainis Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U292	Yeah. Dear colleagues, We did nothing but listened - very carefully! - the ruling party's members with such a wish... We would like to vote openly in favour of the President of the State, and with the experience we have so far - the short experience that is going on for a very long time - we are just coming with an initiative - it is not difficult for us! - how to consider the issue of changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, about the fact that the Saeima would elect the next President of Latvia openly. That is all we want to look at right now. And the other question is about the same thing: that we set... Talk about this perfect reputation, higher education, and tolerance. Indeed, Mr Shadursky has actually deceived all of us before commenting on this. These issues are not long, so I am calling for them to be dealt with quickly, because I believe that everyone here has shown a willingness to introduce such a case as an open vote. Then let's do it, let's not delay it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U293	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky. He will obviously speak against the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U294	Dear colleagues! What if you were to sit down and read the laws and regulations rather than fry such “holy pies” after each other? I very much like this article 1 that you propose, but is it really a "Mister's Gift Set" - here's something pleasant to you? And then Article 2... Well, can't you really read what the laws call... Is that so? There is no 'highest category tolerance', there is a first category permit to work specifically or, in particular - I do not really remember - secretly...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U295	Mr. Shadursky, I am sorry. We're talking about inclusion right now... ‘For’ and ‘for’.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U296	That's right! That is why I am not in favour of inclusion.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U297	Yeah. Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Liepiņa, Kleinberga, Viļuma, Ruka, Šica and Bondara's proposal... No, I'm sorry! One of them is not... Ruck... No, no... So, once again... We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” of Liepiņš, Kaliningrad, Viļuma, Ruka and Bondara. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 35, for - 49, for - 4. Draft law “Amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” is not on the agenda of today’s sitting. But now we have to decide on a second proposal: on the proposal to put the draft law amending the law on the election of the President on the agenda of today's sitting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of Member Liepiņš, Kleinbergas, Viļuma, Ruka and Bondara's proposal to include the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Election of the President" on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 48, refraining - 5. The order of business has not been amended. And now the last item on the agenda approved for today is the draft decision on the approval of the 12th Saeima Member Veika Spolitis. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U298	Dear Bureau, honourable Members. Well, we have to finish this sitting with some positive report. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application of the Saeima received and examined the application of the State Police at its meeting on 17 December this year. The Commission prepared and unanimously supported the draft decision of the Saeima “On consent to administrative arrest 12. Saeima Member Vekto Spolitis”, based on the judgment of Riga city Latgale suburb court of 3 November 2014 in the case number 12910581-21. I invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U299	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On consent to administrative arrest 12. Saeima Member Vekto Spolitis”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 1. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The entire agenda for today's sitting has therefore been examined. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! While the results of the registration are being collected, my honourable colleagues, I informed you that today at 17.00 there was a provision for answering Members' questions. Member Zariņa, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Lochmeles-Lunova, Tretyaka and Pimenova have received a written reply from Anry Matīss, the Minister for Transport, on the implementation of the Rail Baltica project. The question will therefore no longer be dealt with at the question-and-answer meeting. On the question of Member Zarina, Urbanoviča, Ribakova, Potapkina and Agešina, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the real acquirers of state-owned “Citadeles” shares”, the written reply of the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola was received, but it does not satisfy the applicants. But Dana Reizniece-Ozola cannot come to the question and answer session today. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On possible conclusion of an option agreement between the Government of Latvia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on the sale to the Government of Latvia of the joint stock company Citadele banka and the joint stock company Reverta owned by EBRD” by Pimenova, Urbanovich, Mirska, Rubika and Cilevič. This issue has been re-addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who, as I said, cannot come today. The written answer submitted is not satisfactory for the applicants. On the other hand, Member Zarina, Nikiforova, Ivan Klementyeva, Stepanenko and Urbanovičs' question to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Implementation of “Rail Baltica” project”, which has been forwarded to Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss, has been answered in writing. This written reply satisfies the questioners and will therefore not be given an oral answer to that question today. A question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On A/S “Air Baltic Corporation” and SJSC “International Airport “Riga”” has also been presented. As I said, it has been forwarded to the Minister for Transport, who has answered in writing. The written answer provided satisfies the questioners and therefore does not require an oral answer. Finally, sixthly, Member Zarina, Tutina, Mirska, Arthur Rubika and Dolgopolova's question to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma "On the avoidance of providing information on the real acquirers of A/S “Citadele” shares belonging to the state". This issue has been re-addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs. A written reply has been received, but the Minister cannot come today, so there will be no question-and-answer meeting today. In addition, before I give the floor to a member of the Saeima to read the results of the registration, the name to the Member Janis Upenieks for the announcement.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U300	Dear colleagues, In the yellow hall, we will set up a group of Members to cooperate with the Brazilian Parliament. Now!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U301	For the notification, the name of Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U302	Dear members of the Saeima Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications! In 10 minutes, we will have a commission meeting on the Commission's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U303	For the announcement the name of Member Lolita Chiganas.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U304	Dear colleagues, We will immediately set up a group of Members to cooperate with the Moldovan Parliament.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U305	Thank you. And finally, the name to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Secretary of the Saeima, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U306	Thank you. Not registered: Solvita Āboltiņa, Jānis Āmsons, Ringolds Balodis, Guntis Belēvičs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Inga Bite, Arturs Kaimiņš, Ināra Mūrniece, Imants Krādnieks and Sergejs Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-18-PT12-279-U307	Thank you. Thus, I declare closed the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December 2014. I wish everyone a happy holiday!
