ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U1	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Please, take your seats! Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 11 December! Before starting to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments should be examined. The Bureau has received 29 amendments to the agenda of today's meeting, of which 21 draft laws are the draft budget drafts submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. I am asking for the draft law on the state budget for 2015 and the accompanying draft laws to be included on the agenda for the sittings as a single package and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when we decide on amendments to the agenda for today's sitting, one Member will be able to speak 'for' and one Member will be able to speak 'no' to each of the draft laws in the budget and to forward them to the commissions. In addition, a separate vote may be required for each draft law contained in the budget package. We begin to examine the proposals submitted for amendments to the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. And now we are starting to consider the proposal put forward by the Cabinet of Ministers - to put the budget package on the agenda of today's sitting. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prison Administration” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the law on detention procedures” to be included on the agenda. Are Members not against this amendment? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Law on the Office of Internal Security” be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondara's intermediate call: "Vote!" ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Law on the Office of Internal Security” on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” to be included on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( OF THE GROUP: ‘ Yes!’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of including the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 17, for - 1. Decision adopted. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax” in the agenda of today’s sittings. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Vote!” ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” be included on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( OF THE GROUP: ‘ Yes!’ ) Consequently, there are objections. Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” on the agenda of today’s meeting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” on the agenda of today’s meeting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” on the agenda of today’s sittings. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There's no objection? Thank you. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks that draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” be included on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Revenue Service” on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: Let's vote! ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's not 7, it's not. So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking to include in the agenda of today's sitting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Information System of the Territories”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the group of medicines under pressure: ‘ Yes!’ ) Objections are present. The question must therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 19, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017” to be included on the agenda. Do Members object to this agenda... Is that so? ( From the drug depot. Mr Bondars: 'Vote!' ) Consequently, a vote is requested. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017 on the agenda of today's sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -24, refrains - not. The agenda has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” to be included on the agenda. Are Members... Is that so? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members have reservations. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -8, for -17. So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. The following proposals for amendments to the agenda of today's sitting have also been received: The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Copyright Act” to be put on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( From a political group, COORDINATION: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion in the agenda of today's meeting of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Solvency” submitted by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 17, no. The agenda has therefore been amended. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for a draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On consent to search in the ownership of the 12th Saeima Member Sergeja Potapkin”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Edwards Smiltēns, Dzintars Zaķis, Atis Lejiņš, Ainars Latkovskis, Vilnis Ķirsis and others have submitted a draft decision. They asked for a draft decision to be put on the agenda for today's sitting on "On the withdrawal of the Member from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe". Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Edwards Smiltēns, Dzintars Zaķis, Atis Lejiņš, Ainars Latkovskis and others have also submitted and are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere in the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda is the draft decision “On consent to search in the ownership of the 12th Saeima Member Sergeja Potapkin”. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janīna Kursīte-Pakule.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U2	President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The Board of the Saeima’s Mandates, Ethics and Application received and discussed the application of the General Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Latvia at its meeting on 10 December of this year. The Commission heard the Prosecutor General Ēriks Kalnmeier and Sergey Potapkin, Member of the 12th Saeima. The Commission prepared and unanimously supported the draft decision of the Saeima "For its consent to the search under the ownership of the 12th Saeima Member Sergey Potapkin". This property is indicated in the decision of 8 December 2014 of Riga city Latgale suburb court in criminal proceedings No 15830013614. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for support for the draft decision that has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the consent of the Member of the Saeima, Sergey Potapkin, to be searched. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Activities of Insurance and Reinsurance Intermediaries” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” drawn up by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers “On recognition of violations of customs regulations and tax laws of the law “On compensation of the performer of property” be transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the Member Inguna Silver, Sylvia Simfa, Romana Mežecka, Ringolda Baloža and other Members' draft law on the amendment of the Microbusiness Tax Law be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U4	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) Minister Jānis Reirs informed that Latvia's economic growth has slowed down in the first three quarters of this year and there are no indications that at a time when most of the countries of the European Union are experiencing economic stagnation, Latvia would be expected to grow very rapidly. The 2015 macroeconomic forecast also shows a very small increase, and this optimistic approach is threatened by serious risks to economic development: geopolitical situation, deterioration of consumer, business, remaining investors' confidence and other risks identified by the Ministry of Finance in the documents we received yesterday. So there is no indication that the economy is at risk of overheating and that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Latvia are living so well that now we have the time to slow down his further development and activities - therefore to accept increased taxes. Moreover, if we take into account the fact that Latvia's economic growth in the first three quarters of 2014 was essentially ensured only by internal consumption growth and related sectors, but there is hardly any investment in Latvia's economy - there is therefore no basis for long-term growth. We need to be able to create conditions for a small and medium-sized entrepreneur in our own country, so that he can operate and develop, with a clear awareness that the country appreciates and supports every entrepreneur who is able to create added value that keeps himself and his family creates jobs. There is no economic basis for increasing the rate for micro-enterprises, and it is a political decision that is contrary to the views of non-governmental organisations and sectoral associations. According to experts, if the micro-enterprises tax rate is above 13 per cent, then it is no longer economically justified for entrepreneurs to choose to be a micro-enterprises tax payer. We can not hear and do not want to hear non-governmental organisations, sectoral associations, society, but only ourselves, with a desire for progress - should we not, however, be aware of the reality and not only in words but also in works to support small and medium-sized businesses? Dear colleagues, Most of the parties represented in the Saeima during the pre-elections promised to specifically support and promote small and medium-sized business. That is the nature of micro-enterprises' tax, which is to facilitate business start-up, reduce red tape and contribute to the reduction of the shadow economy. Although the planned increase in the rate does not affect micro-enterprises' taxable persons whose turnover is below 7 thousand euros, in fact such a norm will not work, because in this case the taxpayer will choose to pay personal income tax better. In particular, it will be possible for a company to employ only one employee - the owner of itself - at such a small turnover, in which case the payer could better choose not to register himself as a micro-enterprise taxable person. It is no secret that micro-enterprises have also found shortcomings in their operations, and one of the reasons for raising the rate was the fact that micro-enterprises have little social guarantees. However, the increase in the rate alone does not ensure an increase in social security, and there is a risk that a part of the income from micro-enterprises may not be shown by taxable persons. It is therefore necessary to develop other ways to address social security issues (from the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “What?” ), e.g. by setting a minimum level of national social contributions, similar to that set for royalty income. The increase in the rate does not solve problems, but may make entrepreneurs return to the shadow economy sector or choose a country where businesses are supported and where everyone is given the opportunity to develop their business. This is not just a vote on the tax rate! This is a vote on support for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, support for our people to stay in Latvia. I therefore call on us to support our proposal to repeal the amendments adopted by the 11th Saeima to the Microbusiness Tax Act, which introduced the introduction of... raise to 11 percent of the micro-enterprises tax to companies with a turnover of over 7 thousand euros and return to 9 percent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U5	Mrs. Silver!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U6	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U7	Thank you. ‘ Ingmārs Līdaka, the Member against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! In fact, I would very much like to talk about it, because maintaining this micro-enterprises' tax rate at a sufficiently low level is also an idea and idea of the STECF, but I still have to speak against it, because, look at this, it is not all as simple as Mrs Silverba is doing here. That's right, Mrs. Silver! The status of micro-enterprises as such is meant to start up a business, not to restructure a business, as is often the case today. In contrast, large companies are restructured, divided into small micro-enterprises, which leads to a certain tax optimisation scheme. What would I ask you to do right now? I would call for this particular draft law to be rejected, because the Ministry of Economics is preparing an alternative version of the amendments, which will first... will be developed maybe a little more complicated scheme, but... Firstly, for micro-enterprises, let us say, this low - 9 percent - rate will be maintained, but it is time-bound. So, with this idea that when a micro-enterprise is formed, some three... Well, we will be able to discuss here how many years this low - 9 percent - rate must remain. Then the micro-enterprise must become, let us say, a normal enterprise. Secondly, however, the social protection of micro-enterprises must be addressed. This needs to be addressed! And so I allow us to decide on another breakdown of those 9 percent, which is now the tax rate. Undoubtedly, there, more attention should be paid to supplementing the social budget, in order to provide, however, micro-enterprises with more social guarantees. I therefore call for this draft law to be rejected so that we can wait very soon - in the next sitting! - Here on the table... So, on our computers and on the table, another version of these amendments, already prepared by the Ministry of Economics, with a very similar idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U9	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', the other one spoke 'for'. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Microbusinesses", which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 33, for - 22. So the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" presented by Member Inguna Silver, Sylvia Simfa, Romana Mezecka, Ringolds Baloža and other Members be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ “A Member applied to speak about” Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U10	Good morning, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! The essence of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” is to reduce the value added tax rate on milk, vegetables and cereals from 1 January 2016. In our view, the issues that concern the basic needs of the people of Latvia - food, housing, education, health - must be in Parliament's work as priority issues, all the more so because Latvia has one of the highest VAT rates for food throughout the European Union. According to Eurostat data, only Hungary and Denmark have a higher VAT rate than Latvia. Moreover, in 13 European countries VAT on food is less than 10 per cent. In four countries - Cyprus, Malta, Ireland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland - the rate is zero, while in Latvia it is 21 percent! A collective proposal for a reduction in value added tax on food was presented to the last Saeima for consideration. More than 13 thousand members of our society supported this initiative on the portal manbalss.lv. For the time being, its number of supporters has already reached more than 14 and a half thousand. What do the leaders and experts in different areas think about? Lienīte Caune, vice-president of Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, tax and duty experts, is the following opinion (I quote): “I believe that this proposal is logical and necessary. A reduction in the VAT rate for bread, milk, meat and other basic foodstuffs would be aid for both citizens and local food producers." Irina Pilvere, professor at the Latvian University of Agriculture, believes that the reduction of the VAT rate, firstly, would reduce food prices in stores and increase sales volumes, secondly, would increase the competitiveness of Latvian producers and, thirdly, reduce the proportion of the shadow economy. Reducing VAT from 21 to 12 percent could reduce the size of the shadow economy by around 8 percent in the food sector. The result would also be a benefit for the State, as the tax revenue would increase. Uldis Priekulis, a member of the Board of Latvian Traders’ Cooperation “Aibe” believes that (I quote) “food should reduce the VAT rate. Our cooperation brings together around 400 shops, mostly in rural areas and small towns. In stores, the purchasing power of locals is currently rather weak. After coffee, pasta and other goods that do not damage so quickly, one part of the Latvian population travels to Poland, where the VAT rate for food and other goods is 5 percent.” Finally, Peters Apiņš, the leader of the Latvian Medical Society, thought and thought: “A very important dietary component is fiber. In Latvia, there are too few fibers. The most important sources of fibre are roots, vegetables, whole grain bread and bread, whole grain groats and dry cereal mixtures. Roots, vegetables and fruits produced in Latvia should be used five times a day.” If we look at the structure of household consumption expenditure, it is clear from the year on that, in this structure of consumption expenditure, it is food products that take the greatest place: on average, 28 percent. In addition, for the people of the lowest quintiles - the first, the second income quintiles - that is, the poorest, this proportion is between 32 and 35 per cent, the richest - the 22th richest, the fifth quintiles - 22 per cent. At the risk of poverty in Latvia, children - 24,4 percent, young people - 20,1 percent - and people from 50 to 64 - 20,1 percent are most at risk. These people also need food, not just babies, because we had baby foods released... has a reduced VAT rate. And finally. The deep material deprivation index in Latvia is four times larger... is the fourth largest among the countries of the European Union - 25,6 per cent, 25,7 per cent in Hungary, 29,9 per cent in Romania, 44,1 per cent in Bulgaria. In Lithuania, however, it is only 19.8 percent, in Poland it is 13.5 percent, in Estonia it is 9.4 percent. I appeal: honourable colleagues, let us take a step towards reducing the burden of this profound material deprivation and support the further progress of this draft law in the Saeima!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U11	Thank you, Mrs. Schiff. Your debate is over. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U12	Madam President, Colleagues! Reading the annotation of the draft law and listening to the speech of Mrs Šimfas, it is clear that this draft law is actually intended to combat income inequality, and it is also planned to support local producers as well. The aim is, of course, noble, but unfortunately this draft law will not provide it in any way. And there are several reasons for that. First. Who will then be the biggest beneficiary of such a reduction in VAT? If we look at consumer consumption habits, we can see that people with lower incomes are, of course, buying lower quality food products that are cheaper, while those with more money are buying better goods and, of course, more expensive ones. You mentioned that one poor person consumes about €16 per month for these basic foods. Let us assume that this would be all 20 euros. A person with more money, on the other hand, would consume about 50 euros per month for these products. Here we go! So the situation is as follows: in fact, a low-income citizen would save 3 euros per month (on your offer), while the one who has more money and spends 50 euros would save 7.5 euros. So, in fact, the biggest beneficiary of your proposal would not be the low-income, but the one who has more money. And it's even worse! - the state would lose the opportunity to withdraw this money from a richer and re-allocate it to the benefit of a less prosperous citizen. In fact, it would only increase the gap (from the drug depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) , increase the inequality between the layers of society. Secondly. Why do you think that a reduction in VAT would immediately reduce the prices in the store the next day? As long as the free market is in operation (unless of course you have another draft law - the draft law on the abolition of the free market!) Meanwhile, traders and manufacturers will still decide what the price of the products will be. The same reduction in the VAT rate took place once in Mexico, and according to researchers, 50 per cent of this reduction in the rate of VAT is passed on directly to traders (from the drug depot). I.Zariņš: “Why... ?” ), with 40 per cent of the wealthiest company (intermediate references). and only 10 percent - only 10 percent! - the low income population. In fact, this proposal, in its own way, even... supports our traders, so the richest part of society. ( From the drug depot. S.Shimfa: “It’s not true!” ) Third. You mentioned support for local entrepreneurs. Maybe you don't know, but... VAT rate cannot be reduced only for goods produced by Latvian producers, then it must be reduced for goods of both Lithuania, Poland and any other country of the European Union. In fact, it happens that you want to support both Lithuania, Poland and any other producers for Latvian taxpayers' money... of course, including Latvian producers. A more precise way to support only Latvian producers would be to reduce labour taxes, as all of this would remain here - in Latvia. You mentioned that in Latvia... You mentioned a whole series of European countries where value added tax has been reduced. But look at it on the other side! First of all, they have already been so traditional, historically established. But the tax burden of Latvia in relation to gross domestic product is 27 percent. In contrast, in Germany it is 39 per cent; in Belgium, Denmark it is 48 per cent. But actually... Perhaps you pay less VAT when you enter a store in Denmark, but after you leave the store, you will be washed off three leathers. ( From the drug depot. I.Klementjevs: “We need to talk about it!” ) In the context of tax policy, not just one break-up moment. I therefore call, first of all, for this draft law not to be supported. Secondly, the authors are invited to support this year's budget, which includes a reduced rate of personal income tax, which will therefore support local entrepreneurs. There is also provision for raising the minimum wage, which will therefore reduce inequality. It is also planned to develop a progressive non-negotiable minimum, which will also reduce inequalities. ( From a faction, Unity: “Right! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U13	Yeah, thank you. So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law on amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 35, for - 20. So the draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There are no Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detention Procedures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Office for Internal Security be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention and the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Are there any objections to Members? ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -19, refraining from -2. So the decision has been made. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Mr. Zarins, are you... “to” so applied... Ivars Zarins has applied to speak against. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U14	Colleagues, this is one of the draft laws in the budget package. Have you come to know that? Have you seen what is written there? This has nothing to do with the budget package! Why is it there? If you read... I can tell you - for those who have not read - and you will have a serious substance to think about. There are things that relate to the liberalisation of the electricity market, which should really be done, but they do not need to be linked now to the budget package. It's one block. The second block I want to focus on. There are amendments which provide for additional costs which will have to be passed on to the transmission system operator so that this tariff can rise so that it can be higher. So it's about the fact that we're starting to talk here in a hidden way about how to get out of the law quickly again, without even real understanding what, as a result, to hide this reason, that the electricity will remain more expensive with the current decision of the Saeima. There is also another very interesting thing. Why do we offer some local producers for 20 years with the force of law to set the price of electricity, know to what extent - more than 111 euros per megawatt hour. That's... Why should such a gift now be made? Why is it necessary to do this on an urgent basis: to throw it in under the budget package and to adopt it urgently? I call for this draft law not to be seen together with the budget package, but to move it forward in the normal way - to discuss it properly and to take the right, balanced decisions. That is why I am calling for this draft law not now to be supported and not to be referred to consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U15	Thank you. So Members have reservations. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the Commission responsible, as well as to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 23, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Member Sergey Dolgopolov has applied for a procedure. Please turn on the microphone for Sergey Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U16	Dear colleagues, In view of the time deficit and the inability to organise a full review process in the Commission, I call for the relevant draft law to be passed only to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission as the commission responsible, without examining it in the Commission of State Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U17	So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission only. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law passed. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Information Systems of the Territories” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Member Nikiforov has applied to speak against. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U18	Hello, colleagues! Well, we all know the situation with this bill, which provides for the public disclosure of teachers' salaries. The situation is rather strange because, on the one hand, there is a intention that is recorded in the draft law, but on the other hand, there are public statements from both the government and the ministerial promise that this draft law will be either withdrawn or... either this Article will be excluded. But no one voted to exclusion. I see that people stay with their head that will be turned off. Mr Wuzan will probably come to the next platform, who will also publicly announce - to the protocol, and this will be recorded on the verbatim report - that he will be withdrawn or excluded. Well, that's also the only reason I'm on the ladder: double doesn't break. Consequently, if you are not sure that you will be able to withdraw that article or bill, then I invite you to vote against. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.) “For” has applied to speak Member Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U19	Good morning, dear colleagues! Mr Nikiforov has quite rightly pointed out that this draft law refers to the public disclosure of teachers' salaries, to this controversial issue, which has touched the public in recent days. On this point, I would really like to confirm that, in the Saeima Commission for Education, Culture and Science, the Minister for Education and Science promised this provision for second reading with his proposal to withdraw from the bill. However, this draft law also contains other norms that directly affect the budget, and therefore do not look at the draft law itself.... There's no reason. And I ask you to vote... ( GREEN'S MEMBERS' INTERPRETATIONS) There's no reason to look! And so I ask you to support leaving this draft law on the agenda of the Saeima, but the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, as the co-responsible commission, then followed whether what the Minister promised is being fulfilled. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Yes!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U20	Yeah, thank you. So one Member has spoken against, one in favour, but we will decide on the matter by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -17, refrains - not. So the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Igors Pimenovs has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U21	Good morning, dear Chair! Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party and its Group will not support either the medium-term budgetary framework or the draft budget for 2015. I will also name the main objective reasons, but first of all I will talk about subjective ones. I have been involved five times in the discussion of the state budget, but until now, there has never been such an open cynical restriction on the possibility for opposition members to take part in the discussion of budgetary documents. I do not know who is in this situation: are you really afraid of us, or do you naively believe that it is possible to demoralise us in this way? The answer given by Minister Reira yesterday to our question: how can you get acquainted with a paper pulp, which has a thickness of at least 10 centimetres, in a few hours, so that you can then take part in the debate? - exceeded all previous record of arrogance. We have heard that the Members who have entered politics have to prepare for the new budget from spring, and there will be enough for 20 minutes as well. So Members are not the right ones! With this government's attitude towards the parliamentary opposition alone, it is enough to let this budget out of touch, but its content still needs to be commented on. Latvia's economy is developing slowly. Initially, the rapid breakthrough from the crisis has come to an end, and the current weak dynamics of economic growth are proof of - on the contrary! - has begun to stagnate. However, the government's financial policy does not change: the budget is fully balanced, relying on Latvia being given a high credit rating and thus attracting external investment. However, the opposite is happening, and the data from the Ministry of Economics, which we have heard yesterday at the committee meeting, proves: the amount of investment is falling! The government, caught up in fiscal discipline, is almost doing nothing to increase domestic demand. In particular, it is demand that is the key to economic recovery. More! The salaries of staff financed from the budget are kept at an unacceptably low level, which hampers economic development. The unwillingness to listen to teachers whose voices are now heard by the Saeima is a striking example of this. Low wages not only caused a drop in the quality of life of these people, but will also cause a reduction in demand in the internal market. However, it is quite clear that the increase in the income of disadvantaged people would not lie in their savings boxes, but would immediately be used and that, as a result, part of it would be returned to the budget in the form of value added tax. Above all, however, the growing demand would motivate entrepreneurs to develop their activities. There are no other incentive mechanisms for business development in the budget. Go on. Despite all pre-election speeches, expenditure on healthcare has stuck at 3 percent of gross domestic product. Of course, it is good that the minimum wage will increase, but it does not reduce social inequality in Latvia as a result of the regressive principle and mechanism of the tax system. This cannot be prevented only by increasing the exemption from personal income tax. There is a need for a progressive tax, but this is not even a subject for comment. When assessing the three-year budget and the 2015 budget as a whole, it should be concluded that they are still stagnating budgets, but the country needs a growth budget. Our constituents expect economic growth and social justice. This budget cannot be supported at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U22	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U23	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I fully agree with what Mr Pimenova said that our constituents also need a growth budget. Probably all the voters. Just... What does Mr. Pimenov offer? We cannot improve this budget if we do not pass it on to the commissions. This means drawing up a new draft budget, which Mr Pimenova will agree to hand over to the commissions. It is not quite true that Mr Pimenova said that, in a few minutes, he had to get to know such a big package. Members had access in e-mail to both the budget law, the draft framework law and the entire accompanying package since Monday afternoon. Of course, if a person does not read his e-mail, then nothing can be done. So it was time to get to know it. ( Calling the medicine: “Nouu! Well!” ) In the election year, this is the usual procedure for the Saeima to consider the budget at a very rapid pace. And we do not have any other way of ensuring that the budget law is announced in time and comes into force from 1 January. The last date when there is an opportunity to look at the Saeima budget at second reading is December 17... in order to perform all technical works and in time the President of Latvia could declare this law and the laws of the accompanying package. Otherwise, in January next year, we will spend one twelfth of this year's budget expenditure. This means a sum of 280 million less per year (from the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “Not the entire budget of the year... !” ) than this budget law. Therefore, to say that our constituents are waiting for this, is, in my opinion, somewhat exaggerated. The same teachers that Mr. Pimenov mentioned... So the education budget will be about 30 million less. It doesn't look good, Mr. Pimenova, so I advise you to start watching your e-mail, read it quickly and, if you fail to understand everything quickly, consult experienced colleagues - there is one in your group! - because we do not have the hope of working on budgetary law for months. ( From the medicine, “Cinnic! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U24	Thank you. The question must therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017” to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Presidium of the Saeima also proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be passed on to all commissions and that the Commission of Budget and Finance (tax) is the committee responsible. ‘ Against” applied to speak Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U25	(Dep. R.Ločmele-Lunova, Z.Tretjaka and A.Loskutov are alluding.) Madam President, Honourable Members! No ministers. I'm sorry! There are not many things that can surprise me, but it seems that this time the politicians of the ruling coalition have managed to beat themselves. And I am really surprised by the duality and arrogance of politicians when it comes to the national budget for next year. It is expressed not only against members of the opposition, but also against their constituents less than two months after the elections have taken place. More! Why do I say that the members of the ruling coalition have overcome themselves? Because before the adoption of this budget - the 2014 budget - you, Mr Pimenova, spoke on 3 October and expressed the indignation that the members of the opposition were going to get acquainted with 46 draft laws (from the dep. S.Absolute intermediate call sign.) , only one working day has been given. This year - Mr Shadurski has already warned about this last week - Members will not even be given one day, but only one night to prepare their proposals. Yesterday, at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) Mr Šadurskis has repeatedly urged us to make clear his desire to adopt the budget as soon as possible, thus excluding the possibility of assessing, debating or supplementing it in the context of the budget. When I asked Minister Reiras, how long he thought he would take to get to know him (Showing a pile of laws.) This budget package could be used to make balanced and responsible decisions (from the deposit of the room). V.Ageshin: “Five minutes!” ), the Minister for Finance replied that it takes between 15 and 20 minutes. Whether Mr. Reira, putting his hand on the heart and looking into the eyes of any person in Latvia who gave his vote for you in the elections, can confirm that he is ready to sign under each budget law line that you have studied carefully and that you have dedicated 15-20 minutes. Are you ready, for example, to sign under this... I'm just going to get it out of this budget package: “The State Revenue Service has the right to initiate proceedings on the reimbursement of late tax payments by a legal entity to the budget of a person who has been a member of the board of that legal entity at the time when these late tax payments have arisen”? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Of course! There are 5 criteria!’ ) I am convinced that the people who voted for me expect a responsible policy, and for me such an approach on matters that affect every Latvian citizen is totally unacceptable. And I also call on each of you to act responsibly by rejecting this bill. Another reason why I am calling today for a vote against the budget law is that when preparing the Saeima budget, the procedure resulting from the parliamentary roll of order (I will quote here) has not been followed: "The Saeima is financially independent. The request for the budget of the Saeima for consideration by commissions and approval by the Bureau shall be submitted to the Minister of Finance for inclusion without amendments to the draft state budget law.” However, neither I nor my colleagues in the committees have seen the Saeima budget. This leads me to the conclusion that decisions are being taken behind Members. The way in which the ruling coalition demonstrates socially responsible policies does not create confidence in me or - I am sure! - Our constituents. That is also the main reason why the Association of the Regions of Latvia and I personally do not support this bill and call on the other Members not to support it. Thank you. ( Ambitious by the members of the LRA Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U26	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U27	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Mr. Bondar! I am absolutely sure that the voters of all of us, Members, were waiting for a responsible policy, but in the name of some of them they only expected high-class oratory art. That's what happens. Unfortunately, you confused the speeches. You have read the wrong speech. You called for the budget law not to be supported, but this is a question of handing over the budget law to commissions. And the commission meeting will decide whether to support or not. You will also be voting there, the government will then look at the proposals that have been tabled, and at the end of the day... To the first reading you should have read this speech, which you have now read! Your quote for transferring responsibility from legal to natural persons... You have very beautifully quoted the result, but you have not mentioned any of the five features of fraudulent business... in which it enters into force. I would remind my colleagues - the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has already said yesterday that, with such a scheme working... The total tax debt not paid in the country is €800 million. State Revenue Service together with the Ministry of Finance... has drafted a set of criteria with the approval of the government and has passed on this draft accompanying package to our fellow Members. I very much hope that we will approach this issue responsibly and do our utmost to get this money back into legal circulation and the state budget. According to the Ministry of Finance and government estimates, next year - in 2015 - if this norm starts working, our benefits will be about 7.5 million euros. And I think that both Mr Bondara and all of our constituents would be very happy to see the movement of this money, the legal movement, the state budget law, and I therefore call for this process to come in responsibly, to hand over the draft state budget law to the commissions so that we can work with it, prepare for further work and adopt it at first reading today's sitting. And then, Mr Bondara, you will be able to come and read your speech again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U28	Thank you. The question must therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” to all commissions, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 7 and for - 16. The decision has been taken. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Colleagues! I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a proposal to amend the agenda. Members Liepiņš, Kleinberga, Ruks, Šics, Bondars and others ask for changes to the agenda of the sitting to be included in the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads”. Do Members have objections to this... Is that so? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Of course!” ) Consequently, Members have reservations. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Roads” on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 36, for - 19. Consequently, no decision has been taken and the draft law is not on the agenda of today's sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informed that it had received a request by Mr. John Adamson, to grant him unpaid leave on 4 December of this year. The Bureau granted this leave and informed the Saeima about it. The Saeima Bureau also informed that she had received a request from Member Vitaly Orlov to grant him unpaid leave on 11 December of this year. The Bureau also granted this leave and informed the Saeima. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Edwards Smiltēns, Dzintars Zaķis, Atis Lejiņš, Ainars Latkovskis and others have submitted a draft decision “On withdrawal of Member's Spolitis from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member's Spolitis from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 2. So the decision has been made. Members Solvita Āboltiņa, Edwards Smiltēns, Dzintars Zaķis, Atis Lejiņš, Ainars Latkovskis and others have also submitted a draft decision “On the election of Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere in the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere in the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima". According to Article 39 of the Parliamentary Rules roll, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Law on Referendums of Local Authorities” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U29	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Members of the Saeima! In its meeting, the National Administration and Municipal Commission has examined the draft law “Law on Referendums of Local Authorities” reviewed by the previous Saeima and, on the basis of Article 39 of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, proposes to continue examining the draft law “Law on Referendums of Local Authorities” at the 12th Saeima. The purpose of the law is to promote the participation of local authorities in local decision-making. Of course, the reason for continuing to look at this draft law is also that the previous Saeima has already examined this draft law in two readings. Of course, there were also different views. In particular, opinions differed on the issue mentioned in the second paragraph of Article 5 of the draft law, which provides that municipal referendums may be organised on municipal territory planning, on amendments to municipal territory plan or on local planning, as well as amending municipal territory plan. We therefore believe that this draft law should continue to be reviewed, as already on 17 July 2008 the Saeima amended the law “On Municipalities”, which included Article 61.3 which stipulated that local governments were entitled to hold municipal referendums and that this Article came into force when the law on municipal referendums was adopted. So please include and continue to see this bill in the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U30	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Einars Cilinskis, the Member of the European Parliament, applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U31	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! While agreeing that a great deal of work has been done in the draft law and that the examination of the draft law should continue, I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to draw attention to the fact that, in the course of the second reading, it would nevertheless be right to exclude the possibility of a referendum on spatial plans and detailed plans, because if we retain this possibility, then... it is, to a certain extent, an illusion of democracy which at the same time would represent a very high administrative burden, as always any production facility or such facility... there will always be people who will be against it. One example of this is Marupe’s protests against a possible railway branch at the airport. Rail Baltica is, of course, necessary from a national point of view either in this way or otherwise. Therefore, I think it is important to draw attention to this fact and, in my second reading, I would like to call for this possibility of a referendum to be ruled out, because there are different and detailed arrangements for discussing territories, which are already fixed by law, can be improved, but not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U32	Thank you. Member Ivars Zarins took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U33	Colleagues! I believe that this is an important bill for strengthening civil activity and democracy, especially in a situation where, as we see, very often people in the regions feel that those in Riga do not think and forget about the country at all of those in the regions. This will be an important instrument for reminding people in the regions. Unfortunately, as it is currently in place... It is designed again so that in reality this instrument will not be able to be used normally, because if you look at the conditions for this referendum, then... There is a reference to the need to collect a certain quorum for those people who have been registered for the previous municipal elections. But, as we know, in this register... Well, you can already use a classic expression: there will be full of "dead souls" - people who no longer really live in a particular municipality, who are no longer interested in the fate of this municipality. On the other hand, those who are there will not be able to physically collect such a quorum so that such a referendum can be held. Therefore, one important thing, one important change should be made in this law - this reference should be changed: it should not be about people in the register, but about the number of people who have actually participated in municipal elections and who are really important... who live there and who care about what is happening in their municipality. That's one thing. The other thing. Reflecting on what a colleague from the National Union has mentioned, it is, however, a very important thing, so that those people who live there can decide on their territorial planning. All the more so if there is some plan that has been approved... and if it is now frivoli changed, then... However, they should have the right of local people to express their views on this and defend it. So I believe, however, that it is very important here to approach this law and really make out of it a real work tool that would work instead of being another simple butaphoria that we could talk about, how beautiful, right and democratic we are, even though nothing really happens in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U34	Thank you. Member Sergey Dolgopolov took part in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U35	Dear colleagues, To be honest, it is very useful to read the Rules of Procedure again. We are talking today, not about the substance of the bill, about the requirements that should be included in that bill... We must answer one question: do we continue to look at this draft law or stop doing so? Consequently, any proposals that may be made, including proposals for any of these articles... It's the work that's standing in front of us. I call for support for the Commission's proposal to continue the examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U36	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Law on referendums of local governments” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 80, against - no, abstaining - 2. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law at the 11th Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U37	The deadline for submitting proposals is January 22, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U38	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January 2015. The Saeima Bureau informs that a proposal has been received from the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission. It requests that amendments be made to the agenda of today's sitting and that the draft law on amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Office be included in it for consideration at first reading. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Please vote!” ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” submitted by the Saeima Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption on the agenda of today’s sitting and first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will be on the agenda for today's sitting and will be discussed at first reading. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure roll, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” submitted to the Saeima in the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U39	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Good morning, dear colleagues! I would like to call on you today, on behalf of the Legal Commission, to decide on the continuation of the four draft laws contained in the same joint package on children's rights in the 12th Saeima. The Legal Commission of the Saeima has proposed and supported the proposal to continue its examination in the 12th Saeima on the basis of Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure. All these draft laws have given rise to a number of discussions, so the Legal Commission has held several open sittings and even one closed sitting, so that perhaps without a supposed note of populism, these issues will be dealt with in very detailed terms. Legal Commission... The Legal Commission of the Saeima had also set up a working group with the involvement of all ministries and other institutions as well as members of parliamentary groups to improve these draft laws, which were originally submitted from the ministries. This work has really been done, there has been a great deal of effort, so the Legal Commission unanimously supported that all these draft laws should be taken over. And now for each of them in turn. The first is the draft law ‘Amendments to the Civil Law’. So here, too, we are talking about important issues relating to children's rights, and I call on the 12th Saeima to take over this issue and to continue to work on it. Please support the proposal of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U40	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 21, no. So the draft law will continue to be reviewed by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will be the Legal Commission? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U41	January 5, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U42	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is January 5, 2015. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission encourages to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Barary Courts” submitted to the 11th Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U43	The draft law “Amendments to the Barents’ Law” is also related to issues of custody and access law, and I ask the Saeima to support this draft law for the Saeima to continue to look at it and for the Legal Commission to continue its work and work on these very important issues. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, please support the transposition of the bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U44	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Barn Courts” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible to the Legal Commission? There is no objection. In that case, please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U45	This draft law, too, was 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U46	So the deadline for submitting proposals is January 5, 2015. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U47	These amendments to the Civil Procedure Law are necessary in the context of the previous amendments to the Civil Law and the Brunch Court Law mentioned by me, in order to have a procedural procedure in which the court can deal with these cases, and I call on you to support the fact that the Legal Commission continues to work on them and the Saeima takes over this draft law. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U48	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object to it being responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima as well? There is no objection. In that case, please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U49	January 5, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U50	Thank you. Proposals can therefore be submitted by 5 January 2015. In accordance with Section 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On the Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of the Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937”. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U51	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Law “On the Time and Procedure of Entry into Force of Part of Family Rights of the Renewed Republic of Latvia’s Family Law of 1937” are also necessary to deal with the issues of contact and custody rights. I invite you to support the Legal Commission in continuing its work and the 12th Saeima would take over this draft law on its agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U52	Thank you. Consequently, the Members in the debate do not want to. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Time and Order of Entry into Force of the Renewed Part of Family Rights of the Republic of Latvia 1937” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The 11th Saeima was responsible for this by the Legal Commission. Do Members not object that the Legal Commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U53	January 5, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U54	Thank you. So proposals can be submitted by 5 January 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U55	Thank you, colleagues, for your support. We also invite you to participate in Legal Commission meetings if you have proposals to deal with this important issue.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U56	Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U57	Dear colleagues, I would remind you that these amendments to the insolvency law were in fact the result of the major amendments to the insolvency law seen last year, for which a large number of proposals were submitted at third reading specifically concerning the status and operation of the insolvency administrator. And a separate amendment to this large, large draft law on insolvency law separated this section, which is based on the status of insolvency administrator. The committee responsible invites to continue to review this draft law at first reading and asks to take over it to the Legal Commission, because these amendments to the insolvency law are closely related to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Bar Association and the Law on Civil Procedure, which have always been the responsibility of the Legal Commission. Consequently, I call for the deadline for submitting proposals to be set specifically for the Legal Commission, because it will have to work on this draft law in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U58	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.Among the Saeima responsible for this draft law was the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, but since it asks the Legal Commission to be responsible, do Members not object that the Legal Commission will be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. The Legal Commission will therefore be responsible. It is now necessary to set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading. Please, turn on the microphone for the Waiter Burns!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U60	There are no other proposals at the moment. So the deadline for submitting proposals is March 1, 2015. Colleagues, it is time for a break, and before the break we have to register. Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Before reading the results of the registration, I would like to inform you that, as Christmas approaches, as every year Members and employees of the Saeima are invited to arrange gifts for 18 Latvian foster families with 90 children within the framework of the traditional charity campaign. These gifts can be delivered to the Visitor and Information Centre until December 16. On Thursday, December 18, from 10.30 to 12.30 a.m. at the Christmas workshop at the Saeima House, we will all be able to prepare festive decorations to be added to gifts. So the name for the announcement to the Member John the River.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U61	Honorable members of the Sports Sub-Commission! I invite you to the sub-committee at 10.37 on the premises of the Committee for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U62	Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U63	Colleagues and colleagues! I invite you to the Employment Sub-Committee at 10.40 Aija Barču, Einars Cilinski, Andris Berzins, Marjans Ivanov-Jevsevs, Andrejs Clementyev, Hosam Abu Meri, Romuald Gaukuku and Andris Siliņa. And I also call on other Members who have not yet chosen a sub-committee to join the sub-committee on Employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U64	Thank you. Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U65	Yes, thank you. High honourable Members! The Saeima Bureau and the Fraction Council will discuss the closure of the autumn session at 10.40 a.m. in the Red House. I ask the political groups to be here. We're waiting for you in the Red Hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U66	Thank you. The name of Member Arthur Rubik. Mr. Rubika's not... So the name of the Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U67	Dear members of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please gather in five minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U68	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U69	Dear colleagues, let us check! Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Inga Bite, Boriss Cilevičs, Andrejs Elksniņš, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Mihails Zemlinskis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U70	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U71	Colleagues! Please, take your seats! We will continue the sitting of the Saeima on 11 December. Colleagues, please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! We will continue the sitting of the Saeima on 11 December. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the insolvency law, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins. Mr. Bondar, please take a seat in the Saeima sitting room! Other gentlemen and ladies! Be so kind, colleagues! Mr. Smilten!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U72	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See ‘Amendments to the insolvency law’ in the draft law. I would remind you that the Saeima did not previously support the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” in the agenda and its appropriate follow-up. It is therefore not possible to enter into force of the relevant amendments to the insolvency law from 1 January. So we should decide on this draft law... Entry into force of the law from the currently proposed March 1, 2015. The Legal Commission examined the draft law in question, supported the examination at first reading and asked for it to be declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support that draft law and support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U73	That's it, thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 51, it's against - 13, it's not. So the draft law is declared urgent. And the Commission has also asked for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U74	That's right.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the insolvency law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law is supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U76	Colleagues, deadline for submission of proposals - December 12, 2014 at 17.00, and consideration - December 18th, the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U77	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - 12 December this year, and the consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the law on trade marks and geographical indications, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U78	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendment to the law on trade marks and geographical indications”. This draft law is part of a single package with the next three draft laws. The amendments are related to the Civil Procedure Law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2015, and these amendments are of a technical nature – all the words “Riga Regional Court” are replaced by words “Riga City Vidzeme District Court”. Since we recognise this draft law as urgent, please support it at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U79	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law is supported in the second, final, reading. The next item is the draft law amending the law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U80	Draft law on the protection of topography of semiconductor products. It's the same thing. This draft law has also been declared urgent. I therefore ask you, on behalf of the Commission, to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U81	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law is supported in the second, final, reading. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Patent Law, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U82	The very nature of the draft law, Amendment to the Patent Law, is exactly the same. Neither has any proposal been received. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the second final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on the Patent Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law is supported in the second, final, reading. The next item is the draft law on Designs Act, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U84	The last of this package is the draft law “Amendment to the Design Law”. It is also related to the amendment of the Civil Procedure Law, which will enter into force on 1 January 2015. No proposal has been received. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Designs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. So the draft law is supported in the second, final, reading. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Gunārs Rusiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U86	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces” at first reading. First. The draft law provides for the clarification of the location of the NBS and the definition of what is understood by the term ‘military object’. Secondly. In order to ensure the highest possible quality and efficiency of support for youth education in the field of national defence, it is envisaged to extend the scope of the measures to be taken by the NBS by providing that the NBS supports the education of young people in the field of national defence and provides support to the Recruitment and New Guard Centre for the implementation of the programme of education of the interests of young people. Thirdly. The assessment of practice and experience has concluded that it is necessary to provide for the right of the National Armed Forces Military Police to exercise vehicle control in certain cases. Fourth. The draft law shall provide for the officers of the Military Police of the National Armed Forces the right to carry out an examination of the effects of alcohol, narcotics, psychotropics and toxic substances or other intoxicating substances in order to prove the fact of the offence and objectively examine the case for committing the offence. According to the Law on National Armed Forces, it falls within the competence of the Military Police of the National Armed Forces. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U87	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U88	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 22 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U89	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 22, this year. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Cooperative Society, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Andris Vilks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U90	Dear President, Honourable Members! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and discussed the issues related to these amendments of the law. The nature of the proposed amendments to the law is as follows: Certain provisions of the Law on Cooperative Society shall be specified, in coordination with other regulatory acts. The terminology is clarified as well as the legal framework for certain issues in order to avoid any confusion in the application of the rules in practice. In particular, the following issues are clarified: procedure for convocation of the general meeting of members and minutes of the general meeting of members, restrictions imposed on a natural person, capacity of members of a cooperative society and officials of administrative institutions. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U91	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law is supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U92	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 22, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U93	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January 2015. The Bureau of the Saeima informed that it had received five members - Kārlis Šadurska, Solvita Āboltiņa, Augusta Brigmanis, Aija Barča and Gaida Berzins - proposal to announce a break at the meeting of the Saeima on 11 December (after examination of item 18 of the agenda on Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society) by 2.30 p.m. Do Members agree? ( Interface: “Do not agree! ”) ) The Members therefore wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the adjournment of the Saeima by 2.30 p.m. on December 11, this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -67, against -12, refrains - not. So a decision has been made to declare a break at the Saeima sitting today by 2.30 p.m. It is necessary to register the presence of Members before we leave. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to inform you that Member Gaidis Berzins has requested a statement of words.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U94	Dear Members of the Legal Commission. The meeting of the Legal Commission shall be at 13.00 on the premises of the Legal Commission. Let us see the legislative package accompanying the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U95	Name for the announcement to Member Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U96	Dear colleagues from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! I ask you to meet in five minutes' time at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, where we will see the first reading of the budget package and the draft budget. Let's work in the commission's sitting room.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U97	Name for the statement to the Member Ingmars Līdak.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U98	Dear Members of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Meeting of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at 11.45 a.m. 11.45! Half an hour. Good food!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U99	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U100	Please, honourable Members, attention. Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Gaidis Berzins... There is, Inga Bite, Boris Cilevic, Richard Egim, Andrew Elksnins, Aivars Maye... Yes, Roman Money, Vitaly Orlov, Ivan Ribakov, Zenta Tretjaka... Yes, John Urbanovich, Michael Zemlinski.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U101	Thank you. So the break is till 2.30 p.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U102	Colleagues, please, take your seats in the Chamber. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the Saeima's meeting of 11 December 2015 and is to be put on the agenda.... Colleagues! Please stop phone conversations! They can be continued on the next break or outside of the sitting room. I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Dear Mr. Vectyran! Mr. Vectyran, I am calling for a seat in the Saeima's meeting room. Thank you. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the Seimas meeting on 11 December and to include the 2015 draft state budget law and the accompanying draft laws for the first reading on the agenda. Draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”. Are there any objections to inclusion on the agenda by Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Prison Administration’. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Draft law on ‘Amendments to the Detaining Procedures Act’. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children under 18 years of age. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Consequently, Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Law on the Office of Internal Security” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law is on the agenda. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” to be included on the agenda of today’s meeting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The committee responsible is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” to be included on the agenda of today’s sitting. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -17, refrains - not. The agenda has therefore been amended. The draft law is on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of today’s meeting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Tax”. Are there any objections to Members... Is that so? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax” in the agenda of today’s meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The agenda has therefore been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Electricity Market Act to be put on the agenda for this meeting. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” on the agenda of the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 20, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for changes to the agenda of this sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 6, for - 16, for - 16. The agenda has therefore been amended. Draft legislation is on the agenda of the sitting. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for the draft law Amending the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance to be put on the agenda for this meeting. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for amendments to be made and for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” to be included on the agenda of this meeting. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of this sitting and includes in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and includes in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. Are there any objections to Members? Members have no reservations. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of this sitting and for it to include the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’. Are there any objections to Members? ( Insight from the medicine: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 73, for - 6, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The order of business has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to change the agenda of this sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service””. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “Please vote!” ) Members are therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Revenue Service”” on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, a decision has been made and the agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of this sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the legislation on the information system of the designated territories”. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking for changes to be made to the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Education” to be put on the agenda of today’s sittings. Are there any objections to Members? ( Insight from the medicine: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 63, for - 16, for - 1. Decision adopted. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of this sitting and for it to include the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Higher Education". Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of this sitting and for it to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”. Are there any objections to Members? Members have no reservations. The order of business has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of this sitting and for it to include the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017”. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the drug: ‘ Yes! Let's vote!' ) Consequently, Members have reservations. Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017 on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The agenda has therefore been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking to amend the agenda of this sitting and to include the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015”. Are there any objections to Members? ( Intercretion: Vote!) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 27, it's not. So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) of the Saeima asks to amend the agenda of this sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima “On the procedure (form) for submission of proposals for the 2015 draft state budget laws” which the Commission submits in accordance with Article 90.1 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll. Are there any objections to Members? ( Intersenses from the drug: “There is! Vote!” ) Consequently, Members have reservations. And Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft decision of the Saeima on the procedure (form) for submitting proposals in the 2015 draft state budget law package on the agenda of this sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 55, for - 15, for - 14. So the decision has been made. The agenda has been amended. Thank you. The agenda of the sitting will be examined further. The next item is the first reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Qatar on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U103	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 42. The draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Qatar on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes” creates an opportunity to promote the entry of new investments into Latvia from Qatar, as well as cooperation between Latvian and Qatarn entrepreneurs. Latvia already has such agreements with the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait in this region, and this expands Latvia's cooperation opportunities with the region. The Foreign Affairs Commission reviewed this draft law, and after learning that several investment projects are becoming likely to promote Latvia's economic interests, we invite it to be adopted as a matter of urgency, as well as to be examined at the second, final reading at this meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U104	Thank you. The commission has first requested that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Qatar on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U105	I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U106	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Qatar on the prevention of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law was supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U107	On behalf of the Commission, I am calling for the draft law to be examined and supported now at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U108	Are there any objections to supporting the draft law at second reading? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Qatar on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law is supported in the second, final, reading. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Protection of Witnesses of 24 May 2012. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U109	We work with document 95. This Treaty is related to the UN Convention against transnational organised crime and aims to develop and improve cooperation between the parties on matters relating to the protection of witnesses. It lays down rules on the movement and protection of protected persons, information exchange, administrative, technical and logistical support. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined this at first reading and supported it. I call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Protection of Witnesses on 24 May 2012! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U111	December 19th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U112	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is December 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U114	The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U115	Dear colleagues, we work with draft law No.19/Lp12 - Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. The draft legislation is under consideration at second reading and is designed to meet the requirements of Directive 2011/99S. 27 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs that the right to request the adoption of a European protection order will be the victim, the guardian and guardian of the European defence order, but there will be no representative of the rights concerned. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U117	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It is editorial and provides for the exclusion of the words ‘State Police’ in paragraph 3.1 of Article 97. Nothing changes in content, because in essence the relevant norm is provided for in another Section of the Criminal Procedure Law. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U118	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U119	An analogue is the proposal 3 which provides for the corresponding amendments to paragraph 3.1 of Article 110. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U121	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which intends to change the reference from Chapter 76 to Chapter 77 of the Criminal Procedure Law. Proposal of a technical nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U122	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U123	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Incorporated in proposal 7 of the Legal Commission, which provides... which clarifies the wording of Section 906 of Criminal Procedure Law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U125	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported by the inclusion of proposal 7, which also provides for clarification of the wording of Article 906.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U126	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U127	7. - The legal commission's proposal. The wording of Section 906 of Criminal Procedure Law is clarified. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U129	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which is also editorial and provides for amendments to Article 908. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U131	9. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U132	It's the Law Office... I am sorry, Mr Judine, 9th is the proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U133	What is it?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U134	9. is the proposal of the Legal Office.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U135	Proposal by the Legal Bureau to amend Article 908. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U137	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U139	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for clarifications in Para 10 of Section 908, Part One of Criminal Procedure Law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U141	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for clarification in the first paragraph of Article 909. Partially supported by proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U143	13. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the wording of the first paragraph of Article 909. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U145	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau, which is also editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U147	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Office specifying the fourth paragraph of Article 909. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U149	16. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau to amend Article 909 (5). At first, it was proposed to indicate the institution in which documents can be submitted, namely the Office for International Cooperation of the Chief Criminal Police Administration. But such precision is not appropriate in the law, and therefore the relevant words are excluded, providing that the application will have the opportunity to submit to the Chief of State Police. This proposal is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U151	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which is an analogue to the first proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U152	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U153	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, editorial. Supported by inclusion in proposal 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U155	19. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U156	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U157	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for the exclusion of the word "representative" in the second paragraph of Article 912. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U159	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to replace the word "judgment" in the third paragraph of Article 912 with the word "decision". It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U161	22. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which intends to amend the fourth paragraph of Article 912, excluding the word "representative". It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U163	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which is also editorial. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U165	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which intends to amend the seventh paragraph of Article 912 by excluding a reference to a specific institution, namely, that it will be possible to submit applications to the Chief of State Police. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U167	25. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice, Rasnačs, which provides for the replacement of the word "judgment" in Article 913, with the word "decision". It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U169	26. - an analogue proposal to amend Article 914. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U170	Members also agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U171	And the last one, 27, is the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Rasnačs, which is editorial and which includes an informative reference to the directive. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U173	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. So the draft law is supported at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U175	December 29th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U176	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is December 29, this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Law, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U177	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. This draft law is related to the amendments previously supported by the Saeima to the Solvency Act. The Legal Commission has examined amendments to the Civil Procedure Law and supported the first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U178	Thank you. No one wants to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 15, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported. Specify the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U179	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 5, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U180	So there are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 5 January 2015. The next item is the draft law amending copyright law, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U181	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The Saeima Education, Culture and Science Commission in its 11th December... At its meeting on 10 December, I am sorry that amendments to the Copyright Law, which had been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, were examined. These amendments relate to the addition of a new chapter to the Copyright Act. This chapter is entitled ‘Use of orphan works’. This draft law takes over the relevant European Union directive and these amendments will make it possible to use the so-called orphanage works, that is to say works whose authors are uncertain or unknown, in a legal way, in accordance with the copyright rules laid down by law. The Commission decided to look at this draft law as a matter of urgency. Please support urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U182	The Commission is therefore asking for this draft law to be adopted as a matter of urgency. First of all, we must vote in favour of setting the urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U183	On behalf of the commission responsible, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U184	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Copyright Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a deadline for the second reading of the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U185	The deadline for submitting proposals - 12 December at 17.00, and the second reading - at the sitting of the Saeima on 18 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U186	So there are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 12 December of this year, and consideration - for the Saeima at its meeting on 18 December of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Office Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U187	Hello, dear colleagues! According to Section 27, Paragraph 1 of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, the public prosecutor’s office of cities is established in accordance with established district (city) courts. The district prosecutor’s offices shall perform the functions of the prosecutor’s office in the relevant district or in the area of judicial activity of the city. On October 30, 2014 the Saeima adopted the draft law “Amendments to Law “On Judicial Power”, which, among other things, was intended to reorganize Riga City Centre district court by March 1, 2015, eliminating it and transferring judges to other courts. With the existing regulatory framework and the cessation of work of Riga City Centre District Court on 1 March 2015, the legal basis for the further operation of the Riga City Centre District Prosecutor's Office should be reorganised by removing this unit and transferring prosecutors and employees to other prosecutor's departments located in the territory of Riga City. However, the functions of the public prosecutor’s office are not limited to maintaining the state accusation or dealing with issues of personal and national law protection. In Section 2 of the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law, monitoring of compliance of pre-trial investigation procedure with the law has been established as the first function. The work of the state police in the city of Riga is organized according to the administrative territorial division, as part of a unified and logical system, which includes the prosecutor's office and the court for the time being. It is useless and ineffective to change the structure of both the State Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office in Riga, because it is related to restructuring of the already successful supervision system in accordance with the administrative territorial units, creating new, unreasonably large units that will in no way make the work more efficient or economical. Thus, amendments to Section 27 of the Law are necessary, leaving the establishment of district and city prosecutor’s offices and the establishment of the territory of activities within the competence of the Prosecutor General, but excluding the attachment to district or city courts. The above-mentioned amendments would allow to preserve the Prosecutor's Office of Riga City Centre Centre District, as well as, if court houses are established in the areas of activities of all regional courts, the need to reorganize the divisions of the prosecutor's office of other administrative territories will fall. The second initiative is an amendment to Article 53 of the law, which provides for clarification of the legal regulation of prosecutor's awards. In the following, it is planned to deal with the issue with internal laws and regulations, taking into account the provisions of Section 2 (2) of the Law on State Awards that state institutions may establish their awards. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U188	Thank you. Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Office Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U189	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 16 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U190	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 16 December this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". Draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U191	Dear President, Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima has examined the proposal for reallocation of appropriations, and here there are two points in total. First. The funding in the amount of 28 131 euros is redistributed from the Ministry of Welfare’s sub-programme “Beneficiary Sector Management and Policy Planning” to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development’s budget programme “National support instruments for municipal development”. And the second proposal that the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) has supported is to re-allocate to a total of 3.5 million euros from the Under-programme “Administration of the Emission Quotas Instrument” of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development (i.e. there are slightly more than 1 million) and from the Under-programme “Projects of the Emission Quotas Instrument” of the State Budget (i.e. 2.4 million) to the Redistributable Financing of the Annual State Budget in the Implementation Process”. This reallocation of appropriations is necessary to provide support to municipalities to cover expenditure and investments in the Climate Change Mitigation Fund. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U192	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Inguna Silverba, Member of the European Parliament, took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U193	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission once again presented a proposal from the Ministry of Finance on the reallocation of appropriations, this time devoting more than EUR 3.5 million to unforeseen cases. I called on the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) to divide this issue into two parts and to support the part of the draft decision, which provides for the transfer of financial resources to the national budgetary programme 'Unforeseen Funds', in order to really deal with unforeseen events and to compensate local authorities for expenditure, both to combat African swine fever and to prevent the effects of the autumn floods, and to ensure the exchange of data between local authorities and electricity traders. The government proposal, however, reminds you of a bad store’s early Christmas offer: you have to pay a triple price and take some unnecessary or unquality goods. Knowing that these really eligible costs for municipalities are significant and eligible, it is a threefold overpayment - unfortunately, this is too high a price. The reallocation of appropriations also provides for investments in the Climate Change Mitigation Fund amounting to €350,000 from the National Budget Programme “Unforeseeables”. In 2013, the Cabinet of Ministers already supported it, but only now leads the question of the contribution to the Climate Change Mitigation Fund from unforeseen cases. I believe that this was a pre-predicted and forward-looking edition and should have been provided for in the state budget, rather than the measure being financed from unforeseen funds. And finally. The largest amount - more than EUR 2.3 million - is transferred to the Contingency Facility programme. At the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the responsible officials of the Ministry of Finance could not answer what other unforeseen events or events are expected, why so much money should be reserved. ( The laughter of Members of the Unity Group.) It should be noted that until Christmas there are eight working days and two meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is possible that ministries have already prepared their wish list for Santa Claus, but it should be remembered that the Cabinet of Ministers is not the Santa Claus, who will meet the wishes of ministries at the meeting on 23 December, but the executive, who must act responsibly with taxpayers' money and not use funds for unforeseen events. I therefore call for this reallocation not to be supported and for a proposal to be re-submitted on the financing of unforeseen expenditure by compensating the municipalities for the costs of combating African swine fever, preventing the consequences of floods and exchanging data between municipalities and electricity traders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U194	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Mr Shadursky, on behalf of the committee responsible, do you not want to add anything? ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “I don’t want to!” ) So there is no wish to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the re-allocation of the appropriations established by the Saeima for the State Budget 2014”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft decision of the Saeima is therefore supported. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". And it contains a budget package. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the order of the Saeima, Members will be able to debate the entire budget package as a whole, on each of the draft laws or on the draft budget law at the time we start the debate. But now I give the floor to Karl Shadurski, Chair of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U195	Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” and a package of accompanying draft laws, which includes 20 draft laws. At the Commission's sitting today, we have examined all these draft laws. The Commission's opinion is to support the urgency of all draft laws and to support all these draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U196	Is the Commission asking for urgent action to be taken on all the budget packages... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U197	Yes, as I said, the Commission supported the setting of urgency for the whole package and for each individual bill, and supported them for the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U198	So, first of all, we must vote on the urgent nature of each of the draft laws in the budget package, and only then can we begin a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent. Everyone has to vote for... It is necessary to vote separately on the recognition of each draft law as an urgency!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U199	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U200	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 29, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U201	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the law on detention procedures to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U202	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on detention procedures” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 56, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U203	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the urgent draft law on the Office for Internal Security to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U204	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on the Office for Internal Security! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U205	The Commission calls for the urgent draft law on the amendment to the Law on Public Probation Service to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U206	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 55, it's 29, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U207	The Commission calls for the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U208	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U209	The Commission calls for the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax" to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U210	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 56, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U211	The Commission calls for the urgent draft law on Amendments to the Electricity Market Act to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U212	Member Ivars Zarins wants to talk about whether or not to grant urgency? ‘ Against” urgent granting. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U213	Colleagues! I assume that few of you are familiar with this draft law, which you will immediately be ready to approve under the urgency procedure. I would like to inform you that this draft law has nothing to do with the budget at all. But what can happen at the moment is that, as a matter of urgency, the current folly and serious soaps with the electricity market will be ripped off again. There are two basic things about... If we remove what concerns the organisation of the market, then there are two more matters of principle which concern consumers and which should be known to all our consumers. One thing. This is about the transmission system tariff. With this draft law, you can get the Pandora box open, which will allow all those who do not want to fulfil their obligations on the market to put these costs into the transmission system tariff. So what you're trying to do now - hiddenly, rushing through the bill, which will legalize this opportunity. Think if it's worth it! The other thing that this draft law does is why it is very generous to provide some local wind generators with a tariff of 20 years. Why is all this urgent, together with the budget? Colleagues, there is no justification for this! These are serious issues that should be discussed. Otherwise, there will once again be a situation that you have met a year ago when you suddenly realized what soap you have run off in the energy market. Now it's exactly the same thing. I call not to look at this draft legislation as a matter of urgency, but to discuss it properly and accept the most desirable solution for users, the public, rather than the way it is going to happen now. This option will be beneficial to anyone... Unfortunately not the most honest in this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U214	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 57, against - 29, abstaining. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U215	Colleagues, the commission of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”” invites to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U216	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U217	It is also proposed that the draft law on social services and social assistance be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U218	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -24, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U219	The Commission calls for the urgent nature of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance".
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U220	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U221	I also call on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U222	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U223	Please accept the urgent draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U224	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U225	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees’. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U226	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U227	On behalf of the Commission, please declare urgent draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service””.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U228	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, against - 28, refrains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U229	On behalf of the Commission, please establish the urgency of the draft law on amendments to the law on the information system for the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U230	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Information System of the Occupied Territories”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U231	The Commission assessed the proposed legislation on Amendments to the Education Act and decided to recognise it as an urgency after the debate. Please determine the urgency of this.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U232	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U233	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I also ask you to declare urgent the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U234	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U235	The Commission calls for the urgent draft law "Amendments to the Law on Excise Duty" to be recognised.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U236	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 56, it's 30, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U237	The Commission calls for the urgent draft legislation on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U238	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U239	Finally, the Commission calls for the urgent draft law “On the State Budget for 2015”.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U240	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, 30, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent. And now we are launching a debate on the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” and the accompanying draft laws at first reading. Name to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U241	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! Ministers! Those who sit down and all who follow live! 2014 has been a significant year for Latvia's national development: the euro and medium-term budgetary planning have been introduced. We have started investments in the new programming period of European Union funds, ranking Latvia among the first Member States of the European Union whose operational programme has received support from the European Commission. In addition, it should be noted that this year the Treasury has repaid a substantial part of the international loan granted during the economic crisis. This is a good basis for further growth of the country. Today we meet to decide on the most important draft state budget. This is a budget for social and national security. It will affect every citizen of Latvia. If we compare a country with a human body, then the state budget is the spine, which has the balance of the entire everyday mechanism of state action. The draft budget has been drawn up as much as possible according to the current possibilities of the country, so that every citizen of Latvia can benefit. It is designed to make the national operating body operational and effective. The budget was created, with all ministers and officials working together in a single team with great responsibility. The government's priorities were based on economic growth, the quality of life of the family and the individual and the security of the state. I have the honour to offer the Saeima for discussion of the draft laws “On State Budget 2015” and “On Medium-Term Budget Framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017” as well as draft laws that accompany the budget. The basic facts of the budget. National consolidated budget revenue is estimated at EUR 7.3 billion next year, while expenditure is estimated at EUR 7.5 billion. The next year, compared to the 2014 plan, is expected to increase expenditure by EUR 283,3 million. The deficit for the following year is estimated at 1 per cent of gross domestic product. The next year's inflation is planned at 2.4 per cent. The 2015 state budget is prepared on the basis of the growth rate of Latvian gross domestic product of 2.8 per cent. First of all, good changes in every person’s daily life. We have done everything to make families and children stay better in Latvia. While ensuring the stability of tax policy and respecting the previous commitment to reduce the tax burden on labour, from 1 January 2015 the personal income tax rate will be reduced from 24 to 23 percent. The contribution to the second pension level will be increased from 4 per cent to 5 per cent. The Ministry of Welfare's budget for next year's basic functions is expected to be increased by EUR 68,6 million. Of this, the largest part of the funding, or €62.3 million, is earmarked for public social benefits. It is very important that we can help with a higher amount of childcare and family benefits. Next year we increase the minimum wage from 320 to 360 euros. This is one of the ways in which the strategic development objective of the country is to reduce the income inequality of the population. On the other hand, from 2016 it is planned to introduce a differentiated non-applicable minimum. The salary will be increased for the employees of culture, health care, lower court, social care and social rehabilitation, assistant services for persons with disabilities will be provided - these are just a few examples of tax redistribution for the employees less remunerated in the public sector. Next, social and national security. A person needs to feel safe and stable in his own land. Social security is one of the most important elements of national security. To this end, it is planned to increase funding for the Ministry of Health for the implementation of the basic functions of the State by EUR 31,1 million. These funds will be directed at reducing the patient's co-payments, raising the wages of the lower-paid medical staff, compensating medicines, reducing outpatient healthcare queues and increasing hospital services. Security is, of course, also a protection. National security already determines the stability of the country, it provides the basis for prosperity and investment. National security is one of the most important expenditure increases. The funding of the Ministry of Defence for the implementation of the basic functions of the State is increased by 37.9 million euros. These funds are intended to strengthen the capabilities of the Latvian army and the Land Guard. Special high-quality Earthguard jewellery will be created. Such funding will mark a targeted move towards protection funding of 2 per cent of GDP in 2020. In turn, in order to strengthen the internal security of the country, it is planned to allocate an additional EUR 21.5 million to the Ministry of the Interior for the implementation of the basic functions of the State, including the remuneration of employees. Focus on economic growth. In the area of taxation, we offer a predictable, clear future. Without a reduction of the personal income tax rate from 24 per cent to 23 per cent, the government does not propose any other significant changes to the tax rates. The new government's declaration focuses not on raising tax rates but on improving tax collection so that tax revenues on gross domestic product amount to one third. Of course, this is related to the challenges of combating the shadow economy and managing taxes. Budget revenue is expected to increase by 0.21 percent of gross domestic product in 2015. I very much hope that the resumption of activities of Liepaja Metalurgs could have a significant impact on GDP growth. Significant support was provided to Latvian farmers by devoting EUR 33.3 million to the Ministry of Agriculture in 2015, EUR 26.3 million in 2016 and EUR 1.7 million in 2017 to state aid to farmers. It will ensure a more level playing field in the internal market of the European Union. Latvia's fiscal discipline and responsible macroeconomic policy in 2014 have brought fruit in the form of increased credit ratings. In the future, this will allow us to refinance public debt more efficiently and to attract cheaper credit resources in general. In 2015, repayment of the European Commission’s principal of EUR 1.2 billion is planned. Let us also start by repaying the World Bank's first loan principal by transferring EUR 60.05 million to the World Bank. As a result, a reduction of 5.1 per cent of public debt is planned in 2015. I would also like to draw attention to the benefits of our budget from the wider possibilities of European Union funds. When implementing Latvia's interests in the composition of the European Union, no budget process can be separated from the investment opportunities of the European Union funds. The new programming period for European Union funds allows Latvia to invest €4.4 billion in Latvia's growth and development over the next seven years. In 2015, the European Union's investments will enable us to integrate social exclusion risk groups - long-term unemployed and young people - into the labour market. Investment will help to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty. The country will be able to provide appropriate training and help improve health. Support from the European Union funds is also intended to reduce primary energy consumption by improving energy efficiency in the private and public sectors, thus also improving energy efficiency in industrial production and supporting energy efficiency in public transport. Also among the major planned European Union funds' funding destinations are increasing investment in R & D, fostering private investment, and intensifying cooperation between research institutions and entrepreneurs. Significant investment is intended to improve information and communication technologies and transport infrastructure, directly affecting the productivity of the economy and providing the basis for wider employment and increase in the quality of life. In drawing up this year's budget, education was one of the most discussed sectors. I want to pay tribute to all teachers working on the education of our children and grandchildren. Your work is invaluablely important. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš: “We already see that!” ) I regret that teachers have been too busy with the work of the Ministry in its reform process. Clear rules are important for all, the future is important for all. The education sector needs a clear funding model and the new minister is actively working on it. In order to promote the quality of education in Latvia, the next year's budget of the Ministry of Education and Science is planned to be increased by almost EUR 31.4 million and to reserve an additional EUR 3 million (and if necessary - more) to increase the salaries of educators from 1 September next year. The additional funds are intended for the development of scientific activities both in universities and for raising the salaries of teachers. We have fulfilled the promises made in the past and I also look forward to a further constructive dialogue between the social partners and the government on the financing model for education. Local governments play an extremely important role in the growth of the country. We need to work in a single team. This week, we signed an agreement and dispute protocol between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Latvian Municipal Union in which we agreed on the budget and future cooperation issues. I want to use this case to thank all municipalities once again for the open and constructive dialogue! The government has supported the proposal to provide additional funding to municipalities of €6.5 million in 2015. It will address the issue of compensation to municipalities for losses arising from changes in fiscal policy. This ensures that public funding of €36.5 million is provided for financial equalisation between municipalities. In the draft budget proposed by the Government, no municipality has a reduction in revenue compared to 2014. Such a government offer will also reduce regional inequality. And in short: additional funds in the 2015 budget will be felt by all sectors against 2014 and the increase in funding. This time, we were able to look at the allocation of an additional 240 million into the next year's budget. 240 million include both decisions taken last year on additional funding, the new policy initiatives of €133.2 million and other priority accompanying measures of €46.5 million. For wishes and real life. All the desires in life can never be satisfied, but remembering higher goals, it is always possible to achieve tasks step by step. I therefore very much hope that we will all remind ourselves of fiscal discipline, of the continuity of work and of the coordinated growth of the country. The fight against the shadow economy, judicial reform, the improvement of education and health systems, the development of the law on equalisation of local government finances and other issues important for state development are those real tasks. By implementing them as best as possible, we can ensure that Latvia and every family, every person's well-being is improved. In conclusion, I would once again like to express my sincere thanks to all the ministers of my government for the work of the responsible team. I thank the Minister of Finance and the officials of the Ministry of Finance for their professional performance. I also thank all the social partners for their intensive dialogue. Thank you also to the President of Latvia, Andris Bērziņš, for his support. Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! I invite the Saeima to approve the proposed draft state budget laws. ( Ambush the coalition.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U242	And thank you, of course, also to the Prime Minister, Mrs Straujuma. The name is the Minister of Finance Janis Reirs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U243	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. Highly Respected Prime Minister. Dear Members, Dear Ministers, The 2015 budget is the Latvian social and national security budget, which will ensure reduction of social and income inequality, so that everyone, but especially the part of society with lower income and families with children, will have the opportunity to work decent work, get the necessary income for life and get better education, access to health care and social services. The Cabinet of Ministers has prepared the draft state budget for next year, setting the most important priorities for social and national security of our country, sustainable economic development of Latvia, which would improve public welfare, as well as promoting business competitiveness. The government also paid great attention to the work that had already begun in order to ensure that income inequality in our society was reduced, to raise the minimum wage for EUR 40 from 1 January of next year. This will promote the equality of income in society, improve living conditions for our less prosperous citizens and reduce the shadow economy. The approval of the main state finance document at the Cabinet of Ministers is characterized by the ability of the state to successfully manage public finances. The government, together with the social partners and the social partners, has done an ambitious job of assessing and calculating funding for all ministries, institutions and measures and optimally supported for the coming year, while also respecting fiscal policy rules. Dear colleagues, Next year's national consolidated budget expenditure will increase by € 280 million compared to 2014, including both decisions on additional funding already taken last year, new policy initiatives of over €160 million, and other priority measures. Next year's budget increase... The contribution of the next year's budget increase will be felt by everyone, both citizens, entrepreneurs and municipalities. In view of the difficult geopolitical situation created by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, as well as the growing importance of security across Europe, the Latvian Government paid considerable attention to strengthening the external and internal security of our country. Freedom is an invaluable value for our country, while security is also important for our economic growth and social protection. Therefore, next year's national budget is our country's social and national security budget. 2014 has made us in Latvia, as well as the whole world, pay more attention to security and defence issues. Therefore, the Ministry of Defence's budget is expected to be increased by 37.9 million in the coming year, which will reach 1 per cent of GDP. And I want to assure you that the law on funding for defence adopted by the previous Saeima has been agreed with our partners, both internal partners and external partners, both NATO and European. And this is a necessary increase. No one has spoken about 2 percent next year. This increase is intended to significantly strengthen the capacity of the Latvian army and the Land Guard, as well as the creation of a sub-unit of increased readiness. In turn, the Ministry of the Interior has an additional 21.5 million euros; it also provides funds for ensuring equal remuneration and capacity building. The possibility for the government to increase the revenue of the next budget has been created by adopting consistent measures to combat the shadow economy. We have guaranteed businesses the promise of tax evasion and reduction of labour taxes. Therefore, in line with already adopted decisions, from 1 January 2015 the personal income tax rate will be reduced from 24 to 23 percent. And Latvia is one of the rare Member States of the European Union where tax cuts are taking place. And these mayors will also facilitate our business competition in the Baltic region and Europe as a whole. The government also attaches great importance to social security issues, and therefore provides additional means to address health issues, education issues and others. The Ministry of Health's budget is to be increased by EUR 31.1 million in order to promote regional access to health services, reduce queues for outpatient health services, reduce patients' contributions and co-payments and ensure a lower wage for medical staff. ( From the drug depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) In order to promote the quality of education in Latvia, it is planned to increase the budget of all education sectors by almost EUR 31 million next year, as well as to reserve an additional EUR 3 million to increase teachers' salaries from 1 September next year. And these additional funds are intended to develop both scientific activities in universities and to raise the salaries of educators. The government has also created an opportunity to increase funding for the transport sector, with an additional €32.6 million in 2015. And this funding is intended for the maintenance and restoration of public roads and municipal roads, as well as for grants to provide transport services available to Latvian citizens throughout the territory of the country. For the Ministry of Agriculture, the government has supported an additional €33 million in funding next year to provide additional national direct payments to farmers in 2015 amounting to €51 million. When drafting proposals for granting state budget funds to municipalities for 2015, the government assessed in detail not only the total budget revenue of municipalities, but also their breakdown by municipalities. Important attention was paid to ensuring that the proposed solution would not reduce budget revenue for any municipality of Latvia compared to 2014. To this end, the government supported the proposal to provide additional funding to municipalities of €6.5 million, providing a total funding of €36.5 million for equalisation of municipal finances. Colleagues! The prepared draft budget law ensures that no municipality of Latvia's estimated revenue after equalisation of municipal finances and additional grants in 2015 will decrease compared to 2014. Thus, in 2015 a balanced, regionally balanced allocation of state budget funds to municipalities has been ensured, reducing regional inequality in terms of availability and equalization of financial resources. Colleagues! Here, I would like to stress that in 2015, every municipality will be guaranteed the adequacy of loans and guarantees for the achievement of the priority objectives by continuing its commitment policy of fiscally responsible municipalities. The objectives of the loans will be extended to municipalities next year. They will be able to borrow funds from development projects of sports infrastructure of state importance to the Treasury, which will be co-financed by the state budget in 2015. The municipal guarantee for investment projects related to the provision of public services will also be extended. The maximum loan amount for priority investment projects identified by municipalities will also be increased to EUR 250 000 (currently EUR 200 000 per municipality). Similarly, a very important role in the development of our economy and in raising the level of welfare of our citizens will be played by the targeted and successful investment of the European Union's funds and the skillful use of the opportunities provided. We still have one fund of the European Union... The main thing... an important financial source for investment. And as we use them, we will be able to continue developing. The active interest of entrepreneurs, local authorities, public authorities and capital companies, education and science institutions, social and cooperation partners is therefore very well understood as to whether EU funds will be available to implement projects and ideas and whether they will be available in good time from next year. I would like to emphasise that Latvia is one of the first EU Member States, which in a good sense has tried to introduce something... It is the first Member State... One of the first Member States to which the European Commission has already formally approved the availability of €4.4 billion of EU funds for the 2014-2020 programming period. The effective use of these funds will be managed by the Ministry of Finance as the managing authority and the Central Financial and Contracting Agency, offering effective e-solutions for the convenience and support of project promoters. Together with the funds administered by the Ministry of Agriculture - the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund - the amount of €5.59 billion will be available to Latvia. I will repeat some more general and key figures. Next year, national consolidated budget revenue is estimated at €7.3 billion, while expenditure is estimated at €7.5 billion. The revenue of the consolidated budget (including the budget of public persons derived from derivatives and municipal budgets) is planned for EUR 8.9 billion in 2015, while expenditure is planned for EUR 9.2 billion. The general government deficit under the European system of national and regional accounts is projected to be 247,6 million, at 1 per cent of GDP in 2015. The Ministry of Finance plans that the general government deficit in 2015-2017 will not exceed the allowable deficit resulting from the structural budgetary balance objective, applying in 2015, as I said, 1 per cent of the deficit, in 2016 - 0,9 per cent of GDP and in 2017 - 0,7 per cent of GDP. According to the medium-term macroeconomic development and fiscal policy framework for 2015-2017, economic growth is planned to be 2.8 percent next year, but in 2016 and 2017 - 3.3 percent and 3.6 percent respectively. However, given the high uncertainty in the external economic environment, the risks in the macroeconomic scenario are more downside. Unfortunately, our economic development will continue to depend directly on changes in the external environment and the worsening of the geopolitical situation remains a major risk to growth. If Russia introduces additional sanctions that will affect the Latvian economy, or the indirect impact of already established sanctions will prove to be greater, Latvia's economic growth may be slower than currently expected. One positive factor should be the resumption of activities of Liepaja Metalurgs and the restoration of production at the end of this year or the beginning of next year, which would contribute to faster growth of all our economies. As regards fiscal policy, the Latvian exchange rate on this issue has not changed and will continue to focus on ensuring sustainable economic growth and the implementation of responsible fiscal policy in the coming years, subject to the conditions of fiscal discipline. Dear colleagues, The 2015 budget has been presented to you. It is built in a responsible and collegial way, in cooperation between ministries, social partners and sectors, and in the interests of our country and society. Colleagues! Many of the budgeted officials in this capacity were the first to draw up a budget for the first time. This is the first budget for Prime Minister Straujuma. This is the first budget for the Speaker of the Saeima, Mrs Murniece. This is the first budget for the Chair of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, Mr Šadurski... and my budget, too. And so I can assure you that this is the best budget possible under the current circumstances. ( Ambitious and intercontinental hands of the opposition) Colleagues, it is characterised by security, social protection (From the hall depot. I.Zariņš intermediates.) , faster economic growth than the EU average, and reducing income inequality. And that's not a little! I call on you to support the draft budget for next year and wish constructive discussions. Thank you. ( Ambush the coalition.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U244	Thank you, Minister for Finance, Mr Reira. Mārtiņš Bondars, the Member of the European Parliament, took part in the next debate. Mr Bondara, will you have five minutes to debate? ( From the drug depot. M.Bondars: “No, it won’t be enough!” ) Slightly. Okay. So it's time for a break. We have to register before the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, for the notification the name of the Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U245	Colleagues and colleagues! Immediately after the sitting, right next to the Yellow Hall, I ask those who have signed up to the Group of Members for cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament - Verhovna Rada. Please, at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U246	Name for the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U247	Thank you. Investigation Commission in relation to the accident in Zolitūde! 12 Members are invited to the Red Hall. There will be a brief statement from the Legal Office, and then we will decide on our future action. But please come to all 12 Members who work for this committee of inquiry. In the red hall! Right away!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U248	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U249	Thank you. Dear Members, please pay attention. Registration check! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis, Guntis Belēvičs, Raimonds Bergmanis, Inga Bite, Boriss Cilevičs, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Andrejs Elksniņš, Romanas Naudiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Mihails Zemļinskis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U250	Thank you. Interruption until 16.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U251	Dear colleagues, please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! We are continuing the sitting of the Saeima on 11 December. Member Mārtiņš Bondars took part in the debate. Colleagues, please keep silent so that the debate can begin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U252	Madam President, Colleagues! Minister! ( The Minister for the Interior, R.Kozlovska.) Thank you for staying. I understand that Mr Reira and the Prime Minister came to listen to each other, but the national budget that we want to adopt today at first reading is not an abstract layer of documents. I want everyone to understand that. Let the budget... The national budget affects each of us, each of our constituents and also those who, for various reasons, did not participate in the elections. First of all, the quality of the budget presented to the Saeima. The Minister of Finance and the Head of Government should take full responsibility for this. I hope that these people are aware of this, even though I did not have such confidence from Mr Reira yesterday's budget gratification. Besides, today's commission... At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, the employees of the Ministry of Finance, who were thanked for their professionalism here today, were unable to answer any of my questions regarding the state budget for 2015. ( From the drug depot. A. Lokutov: “Maybe guilty of matters?” ) Neither have they been able to talk about general matters - whether we are seeking to reduce inequality of opportunity or to reduce inequality of income - nor have they been able to respond to the minimum wage in the country of the beneficiaries. They were also unable to answer how much the income inequality would fall after the S80/S20 index, as explained by Mrs Viņķele to my colleague Artur Neimins, because they had never heard of it. They had to say they'd write a report... As a general rule, when the Cabinet of Ministers refers to the Saeima for a draft law and when there is a need to bring it into line with the European Commission or to receive a recommendation from the European Commission, this happens in parallel. For reasons beyond my grasp, the draft budget prepared by the government was first sent to the European Commission at the beginning of November, setting a secret regime for it and preventing Members of the Saeima from starting to prepare in good time for the planned debate on the substance of the budget. Therefore, I would like to ask the Members here: is this in line with the fundamental principles of Western democracy? ( INTERPRETATION OF THE GROUP: “Scan, yes! ” “The second reading will be!” ) Is there any surprise in the low trust of voters in the state? I'm not surprised. The only thing that surprises me is that politicians, who call themselves experienced and wise, were unable to see the consequences of their actions. At a time when various organisations point to the high risks of economic stagnation, the government seems to be deliberately breaching the commitments made in the country's strategic documents. In recent years, instead of saving, the ruling coalition with the United Nations has deliberately increased the deficit. For example, a budget deficit of up to 1 per cent of gross domestic product was promised last year, but at the end of this year it will have already increased to 1.42 per cent. Latvia is currently in a rather difficult situation. I do not want to repeat by listing all the reasons, but I stress that the country of Latvia cannot afford as much risks as the ruling parties have intended for their citizens. It is already known that tax revenues are lagging behind the long-term objective declared by the government of one third of GDP. This undermines the ability of the government to ensure the sustainable development of public services, to respond to security risks and to develop the necessary infrastructure. In the past, Mrs Āboltiņa has repeatedly pointed out that she expects constructive proposals from the opposition as well, but it seems that a sense of power and superiority does not show any interest in listening to them, because otherwise we would not have been given one night to submit proposals for second reading. Unfortunately, this will not have the confidence of the public either in the Saeima or in the government. And it just seems that the politicians of the ruling parties have understood it: public trust does not reach us! And maybe it doesn't matter at all, just like pre-election promises. Because Mrs Straujuma's declaration by the previous government still contained a point on the need to promote public confidence in the state power, whereas the last government's declaration does not even contain it anymore. Openness and citizen-centred decision-making have not, in my view, been on the agenda for the 2015 budget. That is just one part of the reason why I will vote against the first reading support for the draft budget, and I call on the other Members to do the same. We're all... Yes, you too, Mr Shadursky, are responsible to those people who have elected you to the Saeima. Each of the voters who voted for you and also for me certainly had their own considerations, but in general they relied on us to be able to provide the country with the best, safest and most efficient path of growth. The main priorities of the Association of the Regions of Latvia (as before the elections) today are national security, equal regional development and demographics. Unfortunately, this new old government is also suffering from such a narrow mentality disease in recent years. Ministers do not want to look outside the walls of their ministry, and each of them is attached to the budget of the particular ministry as a slider to the straw. This practice should be terminated. Awake! We live in the 21st century, state security has long ceased to be a matter for the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. National security is also an education, health and culture. Before the elections, the National Union promised to increase its defence budget to around 2 percent of GDP by 2017. It can now be seen that this will only be the year 2020. You don't have to be naive to think that only Bondar noticed it, and our allies also see it. ( THE INTERPRETATION OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF MEMBERS.) The fight against the shadow economy, as a hot coupel, has been under its arm for many years. UNIQUIRITY’s unethical conduct sends bad signals to the public. At the same time, the State Revenue Service is growing and growing, but it is difficult to see the results of real measures to combat the shadow economy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķele and A.Loskutov intersacres.) Yes, the car service was shaked, and the dentists were also heard, but what happens to the smuggling of envelope wages in medium-sized and large companies? ( From the drug depot. I.Viņķelis: “Seating!” ) Does the teachers’ strikes and the fact that government leaders do not understand how teachers’ salaries are calculated suggest that schools will serve as a place where national thinking will be raised in their children from an early age? Can national thinking be promoted by a teacher who does not trust the state authority himself and who has the state power for the hypocritical year from year to year? The same applies to healthcare. Almost all parties promised access to primary health care, reduction of co-payments and reduction of queues. At the end of the summer, Mrs Straujuma promised that at least EUR 40 million would be allocated to healthcare. But what do we see today? 31 million for healthcare! Who needed it, Mrs Viņķele, by setting up a working group in the government that makes recommendations for improving the healthcare system? How many suggestions... How much of the recommendations that have been made are realistic for the following year? Can anyone tell Mrs. Dougda what will be the minimum health care for her? And can anyone tell Mr. Aizkraukle how much of the service will be paid by the country next year and how much will be paid by him? Can anyone tell us why lines are being artificially maintained, for example, for state-paid hip operations? Latvia is not in the United States, where you have to travel from one state to another 24 hours or more. Be honest with people once and tell them! If there is a line in Riga, then there is no in Madona! If you can't solve the problems for years, don't take such responsibility, honourable ministers! Did Unity really mean, by raising the minimum wage from EUR 320 to EUR 360, reducing the inequality in society that it spoke loud about before the parliamentary elections? It is no secret that this provision of the law places an additional burden on small entrepreneurs, especially in rural areas. To pay the minimum wage to your employee, the entrepreneur will pay a total of EUR 445, which is 50 euros more than today. At the same time, the employee will receive an additional 28 euros in his wallet. If the ruling coalition really wanted to reduce inequalities in society, instead of raising minimum wages, it would have increased the non-eligible minimum or increased incentives for dependants. According to data from the Central Statistical Administration, households with only one parent are at the highest risk of poverty in 2012, as well as households with three or more children. It is not a shame for those who earn so-called big wages when they work fairly, which is a relative concept, but for those who cannot earn a living - and where else are spending positions that ensure a decent life! UNIFORMITY plunders the flag of inequality. But has Unity politicians come down from their heights, go to the countryside, and ask, what exactly would their support be the most necessary to enable them to make a difference so that they do not have to emigrate? Demography is an extremely important issue that cannot be addressed by the Ministry alone - the Ministry of Welfare. In a demographic context, we also need to look at high mortality and its causes, and think about how to prevent it. In a demographic context, we also need to look at emigration and its causes. Does the government have a real offer without a remigration plan, which is another blank paper, for people living outside Riga? Unfortunately, I do not find any document where there are concrete measures and the means for them so that people do not have to leave Latvia so that they can earn the money to support their family right here. More! So that families who still want to return to their homeland can do so with confidence that they will have a place to work and a place to live. I do not see such concrete measures, Mr Reira, and let me say that the people of Latvia do not see them either. In terms of regional development, the Government Declaration contains a paragraph which reads as follows: let us promote a more effective functioning of the regional institutional and territorial framework in the areas of public administration and regional development. These are the other empty words! As Mr Reira said yesterday, this is another budget for compromises, and he mentioned it today too. Nothing is strategically addressed in any area. Regional and other societal challenges can be expected again. 6.5 million more - this grant is a mechanism to silence part of the municipalities, but it does not answer any question as to how the government will promote regional development. It is clear to me that the regions must be much more independent - including financially - and the government must think about how to make the regions really develop. Don't be clear. It is not the construction of a concert hall in the largest city of the region or where there is a representative of the Unity! I have observed that, recently, it has been modernised under the flag of the Presidency. Colleagues, that's not serious! Yes, it is an additional measure to be taken by Latvia and work must be done in honor, but the basic function of the country must not be forgotten. At the end of my speech, I would like to emphasise once again that the process of adopting the budget as intended by the members of the ruling coalition is absolutely unacceptable to me, and I do not see that this would be a state budget created in the mind of the interests of the people of the country. I will therefore vote against the failure to respect public interests and against the support of this budget law at first reading. Thank you. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U253	Thank you. In the next debate, Ms Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U254	Dear colleagues, Judging from the 2015 budget review schedule, the first or legislative power in Latvia is not the Saeima, but the government. If so, there has been a quiet coup d'état. In the best case, the timetable for the examination of the state budget for 2015 is unacceptable and does not create confidence that separation of executive and legislative powers is ensured in Latvia. The right to legislation is not only a vote on the draft law that has been brought by the executive power - that has been brought into the leather portfolio - but rather analyzed and carefully thought-out decision-making. The timetable for examining the proposed draft law is that it is impossible for Members of the Saeima to even read physically - where to still analyse! - the draft state budget, the proposals contained therein and 18 accompanying drafts, one of which is a completely new draft law. The state budget is not a technical document, a row of figures that I will not say anything, although the executive apparently wants us to look at it. In fact, it is an opportunity to assess once a year national progress in all policies, progress made and discussions to reach agreement on the results to be achieved next year. The state budget determines state development - the budget for growth or consumption, the budget with an investment for the future or for today? These are questions that need to be answered not only by Members but also by the public. Members of the Saeima should give an executive mandate to what objectives should be achieved next year in order to implement the national long-term strategy, and what resources are needed for this. For every budget line, we, honourable colleagues, must have a clear understanding! It is we, and not the executive, that will answer our constituents for the quality of this law. We need to be able to explain to the public what services the taxpayer will receive from the country, what the quality of education and health will be, and not just how the budget of one or the other sector will increase. That is why we need to have discussions, confidence in the quality of the budget that has been drawn up... discussions with representatives of non-governmental and sectoral associations. The lack of dialogue on this budget has already been seen in the morning when we came to the Saeima. An open explanation about the use of state budget funds and the objectives to be achieved would give immediate savings to the state budget for 2015, because the Ministry of Finance should not spend a priority measure of 175 thousand euros in order to explain the necessity to pay taxes and to inform for what purposes the taxes paid are diverted. The principle of the use of budgetary resources in relation to the responsibility for the results achieved must be introduced. The fact that the requests submitted by the ministries were not sufficiently assessed in 2014 is reflected in the huge number of reallocations of appropriations, and the reallocation of funds even from new policy initiatives, thus affecting the achievement of the strategic objectives set in the National Development Plan. Who is responsible for such quality planning? Unfortunately, no one! The government announces to the Members of the Saeima that the 2015 budget should be adopted by the Saeima within one week so that we will look well during the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is important for us what others think of us, but it is just as important for us to be honest and responsible in carrying out our duties. Therefore, I invite everyone to reply in good faith to yourself whether you have sufficient information to explain the figures included in the budget, which have or have not been financed, and what will be the impact of these decisions in the long term, for example, without implementing the activities of individual health sectors or the State Probation Service, but by allocating funds of EUR 235 000 to ensure safety requirements in the Ministry of Finance, which intends to improve the ventilation system. I hope that every Member of the position who will vote in favour of a timetable for the examination of such a budget and the submission of proposals knows what measures will be implemented and what objectives will be achieved. If we Members cannot answer these questions, then we must be honest and recognise that this is a formal procedure for approving the budget, and the Cabinet of Ministers and officials must take full responsibility for the funds allocated to society, to teachers, to scientists, to pupils, to pensioners and to families. If there is no way to ask a question, there are no answers either. So irresponsibleness can continue! When she received the budget yesterday, the Speaker of the Saeima said that she hoped that the Members of the Saeima would take this seriously. I call on every Member to act responsibly and to set a reasonable timetable for the examination of the budget. Thank you. ( The philosophies of the NSL fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U255	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U256	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The budget focuses on public policy in the economic and financial fields. This is the most powerful state action in economic and financial policy. During the previous weekend Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma stressed that by the centenary of our country in terms of gross domestic product per capita, Latvia needs to rush its neighbours and become the leader in the Baltics, and then Latvia could be like Ireland and possibly Denmark in the next five years. What does this mean for the people of Latvia? Compared to the European Union average, Ireland and Denmark have a GDP per capita of 43 thousand dollars, while Latvia currently has a GDP per capita of 23 thousand dollars. What is the hope of the Prime Minister and her neoliberal economic experts? There are two options: either Latvia's GDP will have increased twice after nine years, or the population will have decreased twice. It cannot be that Mrs Straujuma allows half of the remaining inhabitants in Latvia to be emigrated. But in order for the country to double its income, even in one generation and not only in nine years, it is necessary to ensure continuous growth - on average 7 percent per year. This is reflected in the 2008 World Bank survey on growth. One of the most important findings of this report is that such a rate of growth can be achieved if the total level of investment in the country reaches 25-30 per cent of GDP every year, including private and public investment. Latvia had for a short time the total amount of investment during the "threshold years" so we grew so fast. Unfortunately, our investments were dominated by private investment in real estate, which ended in the wake of the global financial crisis. In order to ensure a high level of total investment and attract private sector investment, public investment in public infrastructure was around 7 per cent of GDP annually in all fast growing countries. Similarly, in addition to investment in physical infrastructure, substantial investment in education and health care is also needed. The wrong structural reforms are as follows: in times of crisis and stagnation, reducing public spending, thus hindering the economy and making high-quality production even more accessible, preventing it from building on modern infrastructure. But what is the government's action plan? The basis for this is the requirements of the laws of the European Union and the law of the Republic of Latvia - Law on Fiscal Discipline. Will these measures ensure the pace needed to reach the level set by Mrs Straujuma? Of course not! The government is moving successively and firmly on the road, which has led to stagnation without exception across all the Member States of the European Union. Reducing all fiscal policies to budgetary balance means, in fact, abandoning growth policy. In certain circumstances, this principle - living without debt - can be implemented by the household, but in a market economy it is absurd. But all the neoliberal governments of the continent of Europe - with our government in the first ranks! - Just like a mantra repeats: "Econcise, save and save!" Why? With the hope that the credit rating will grow and financial market investments will flow here. However, despite Latvia’s “story of success” and the example “V” - figuratively expressed escape from rapid pickling - the percentage of economic growth, with which Latvia is proud, is no longer able to mislead anyone in the world. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), when presenting the budget, we were told that the amount of funds invested in the Latvian economy during the previous three quarters has decreased compared to the same period of the previous year. Indeed, fiscal policy has always been a means of developing capitalism: to borrow foreign money to create wealth and leave it to their children, to repay credit, to pay interest and to take debt back. The country's life on debt is the norm of capitalism. Developed nations around the world have lived in this way with the goal of becoming rich and, from their heights, began to encourage others to be savers. The British economist, Hajun Chang, has called such a policy a stairwelling policy: those who climbed up through the stairwells are turning them away so that others cannot get up. It is a shame that Latvia - one of the European countries most in need of support - declares the same... The policy of austerity has dramatically reduced state investment in the economy, reduced salaries of nurses, teachers and policemen working in the budget areas. There has been a fall in demand on the market and, accordingly, in the activity of economic operators. There are still 120,000 fewer jobs in the country than it was before the crisis. And it is precisely because of the strict austerity policy pursued by the country that they are increasing very slowly. The consequences are that from 10 to 13 percent of all Latvian nationals have emigrated. Most of them have done so because they have not been able to find a job and a decent salary in their homes. The most susceptible have gone - the young, the strong, the most enthusiastic, but those who place their homes more important than wealth. But the measure of patience is full. Low wages are being imposed, employees are starting to protest, and those in trade unions are taking part in the most energetic protests. Therefore, teachers gather at the Saeima and government home in picket, ready to strike if their demands are not heard in the Saeima and government. The biggest challenge is for the small rural schools in Latvian regions, because in these schools, especially during the crisis, the number of pupils has decreased, and therefore the income of teachers has also decreased. 12 million euros are needed to introduce a new salary model for teachers on 1 September 2015. It is possible that the government will manage to find 3 million, but the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union (LIZDA) answers that EUR 3 million is not needed, because these 3 million will not be able to change anything, and it will be a loss for the reform. We need 12 million! Next year's budget, calculated by the Ministry of Health - so rightly required! - €8.2 million has been used instead of €30 million to raise the salaries of health and social care workers. This means that everything the government has prepared for is almost equalizing the pay of certified nurses and their assistants. As a result, the government forces nurses to emigrate to other countries, as their work is paid much higher there. Despite repeated pre-election promises, the overall public health budget has, however, increased by 3 per cent of GDP. This is unforgivable enough for the system to work fully and for it to be a real demonstration of the priority approach expressed in words to the health sector. The Ministry of Health calculated that EUR 106 million is needed to maintain the health system. Of these 106 million, 30 million are necessary to increase staff remuneration. This in turn would provide an opportunity to attract new employees and keep existing not only in the health sector, but also in Latvia as a whole. The Ministry's calculations have been discussed on several occasions in different audiences and no one has ever questioned the accuracy of the calculations. In consultation with the industry, the Latvian Health and Social Care Workers' Union, the Latvian Medical and Care Workers' Union, priority is given to human resources in the health services sector. Without an immediate, immediate increase in remuneration, there is a real danger of losing staff, not to mention attracting new specialists, and it will have a lavish effect. Now, for overcoming social inequalities, the government has already made a declaration to the Saeima. The government is opposed to social inequalities and proposes to increase the minimum wage as well as the minimum income exempt from personal income tax. But that's better than nothing! However, according to the SCLAY, inequalities are based on a regressive tax system and can only be corrected by applying the principle of progressive taxation of personal income. These principles are based on the fact that the tax burden must be higher for those who have more opportunities to earn. Let us remember that the tax system in every country carries out three tasks: ensuring revenue in the state budget; impact, i.e. regulating the economic activity of business and - third, most importantly, in the context of this negotiation! - equalise differences in income between individual groups of the population. Since the restoration of independence in Latvia, the tax system of the third of these functions has never seriously performed. It was beneficial for the ruling elite, and the state of Latvia was established by the rules of the young rich, just like the rest of the former USSR. In Latvia, the principle common in Western Europe is not working and has never worked, that everyone has to bear the same heavy tax burden as they have. Therefore, it should not be surprised that Latvia is today the country with the highest income inequality in the European Union. International organisations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have repeatedly pointed out this. The income inequality of the population is known to be reflected by the Gini coefficient, which is measured from zero to one. In recent years, income inequality in Latvia has increased and, as I said, it is now the largest in Europe. The Gini coefficient in Latvia is now 0.36. Therefore, one recently known businessman in Latvia says that Latvia is a country where it is cheap to be rich. For Estonia and Lithuania, the Gini ratio is 0.32, for Europe on average 0.29 and for Sweden and Denmark, 0.23. The same Denmark that we were told about very recently, Mrs Straujuma! She talked about her desire to bring Latvia closer to Denmark. I am very respectful and pleased that our Heads of State have such intentions, but yet how will we do so? So why should those who make more money contribute more to the financing of public activities? This is necessary to ensure the stability of the market system. Where there is free market competition, there are situations of economic collapse as money is pumped in one direction (only in one direction!) under competitive and market conditions. - from the poor to the rich and the rich to the richest. A layer of income is created, and it is not simple, but very large strata. That is, a huge part of the country's population has no money at all for normal life. Total demand in the country is inevitably falling, the number of unemployed is rising suddenly and rapidly, production is falling rapidly, the economy is becoming inefficient. It happened in Russia a century ago, then in America and Europe at the end of the 20th century. Therefore, following the shocks that we are all well aware of, countries with a market economy are distributing money from the rich and talented to the benefit of the poor and less susceptible. Progressive tax is fair if we care about the stability of the country. The progressive tax is a matter of stability in our country, not of left-wing politicians. The draft budget is based on erroneous considerations and does not respond to economic and social challenges. That is why the Group will not support the draft budget and calls on Members of the Saeima not to support it. We need another budget and another financial and economic policy. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U257	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U258	Dear colleagues, According to the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015” for the implementation of the new salary model of teachers from 1 September 2015 in the state budget programme “Unforeseen Events” the reserve is EUR 3 million. In my opinion, this is not, and cannot be, acceptable. Consequently, I cannot agree with Mrs Straujuma's theme that the increase will be felt by everyone. This theme came from this parliamentary tribunal today. There will certainly be nothing for those working in the education sector, as they have nothing to do with this draft budget in the coming years. I believe that education is one of the country's priorities for economic growth and it is the work of teachers that ensures a successful future for the country, but the remuneration of Latvian teachers is unfortunately one of the lowest in Europe. And our country pays EUR 420 per pedagogic rate, but in Estonia, for example, the minimum salary is EUR 800. It is clear that the interests of teachers in this draft budget are not taken into account and that it is not a friendly budget for teachers. I would now like to give a little more detailed justification for my point of view. First of all, such pay in Latvia does not fully match the level of preparation, knowledge and skills required from a professional teacher, and this shows that the government does not appreciate their work. This is also reflected in interesting and objective indications. For example, between 25 and 50 percent of teachers in schools are male. Secondly, average pay for the public sector and for the economy as a whole is gradually increasing, but teachers have not changed in principle on the issue of pay. Moreover, thanks to the government, teachers will obviously have to work for EUR 420 per month on paper at a rate of up to 65 years. Thirdly, with 1 January 2015, the minimum wage in the country will be 360 euros, so the difference between the low-skilled and the highly qualified (often with two higher education and a master's degree) will be only 60 euros. And fourthly, the small supplement proposed by the government will not cover even the increase in public utilities next year, not to mention the increase and increase in the costs of food, clothing and other services. Is it normal, colleagues, that teachers on vacations and summer holidays are looking for a job other than resting and education to pay public bills? In order to implement the new salary model for teachers, as of 1 September 2015, adequate additional funding is required, which is not currently provided for to a sufficient extent in the draft budget. Consequently, I call on the Saeima to look for a solution to this problem if the government distances from it. In any case, there is a constructive offer that we are going to make in the next few days. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U259	Thank you. The name of Member Regina Lochmele-Lunova.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U260	Dear colleagues, The Minister of Finance, Mr. Reira, called the 2015 budget for the state and social security budget and also talked about this budget decreasing... equalizes inequality in our country. Today, opposition representatives have already spoken about a number of categories of people that have not really been fully thought out in this budget and that could be dissatisfied with the figures in the budget. But I would like to talk about another category of population that nobody else has spoken about today. In particular, on 22 July this year the new version of the Law “On Assistance in Addressing the Issues of the Apartment” entered into force, according to which Section 26.2 of this Law reads: “The State grants to municipalities a targeted grant for the provision of housing space release benefit in accordance with the funds provided for in the annual state budget.” No funds for the implementation of Section 26.2 of this Law are provided for in the draft state budget for 2015. In this way, the government that drew up this draft budget and the Members of the Saeima, who will vote in favour of this draft budget, will support a special business, which the people have long called "the purchase of a meat pie and the sale of a meat pie without meat - by price". And “meat” in this business are living people - inhabitants of denationalized houses. When voting in favour of the draft state budget for 2015 without amendments, which would provide for the restoration of the state's membership in the financial provision of housing allowances, because it was discontinued in 2009, the Saeima Members will support gross, I would even say, disgusting violations of the human right to housing guaranteed by the Constitution. Denationalised house owners and managers are forced to live without water mains, sewerage, heating or simply being laid on the street - sometimes even without property and passports! - simply because it is beneficial for "a pie without a meat dealer". Thank you. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U261	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U262	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Minister of Finance has called this budget a social and national security budget in his interviews. That's also confirmed here. Security, regional development and demographics are also priorities of the programme for the Association of the Regions of Latvia. It is precisely with regard to security and response capacities that I cannot accept that the draft budget and the new initiatives do not even find the way in which implementation is governed by law. The way in which the government's tasks have been ignored for years will be an example of the Civil Protection Law. Article 25 states that the State Fire and Rescue Service and the Emergency Medical Assistance Service shall establish a Rapid Response Team and a Medical Support Unit, respectively, to provide assistance to disaster victims and response and response and response response measures. The Cabinet of Ministers shall determine the procedure for the establishment, maintenance, training and financing of the said entities, as well as the procedure for the use and involvement of this entity. It's been four years, four years! - Since 28 September 2010 implementation of the law has not been organized and funds for the creation of units are not allocated to the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Health. Once again, the law and national security interests are being insisted on, they are not being called on in this budget. Perhaps someone has not even understood the latest teachings, because the lack of both of these units was reflected both in the elimination of Maxima's tragedy and in the context of Ukraine's events. I have always been in favour of fair, rational and cost-effective use of public funds, of non-fraud of the state and of bringing things into the right words. I believe that money should not be given for subscriptions in the field of services, for the part of services provided with daily resources and at the expense of citizens' rescue or late receipt of emergency assistance. Likewise, money should not be given to generating a fantastic profit of millions of euros per year by economic operators. I'm talking about the situation... the system from which I come - that the Emergency Medical Service... full allocation of all crews to two certified medical practitioners. Thus, each team has to work for two doctors, but instead of more than 20, only one doctor regularly travels on average a year. The amount that is not paid into wages is... is approaching half a million euros. Where's the money? I think this surplus is being diverted back to generating it. I am also talking about the proposals made last year, and also this year, on the amounts included in the budget to ensure different measures. They are allocated to the Fire and Rescue Service, emergency services and other services. In real life, a substantial part of the provision of these services is carried out by day-to-day teams without any premium. So security is reduced for people, but money is put on some pocket at the expense of it... it is not used for purposes other than those for which it was intended. I believe that when the State Audit Office and law enforcement institutions learn about such useless wastage of the allocated money, a harvest field will be opened in order to call the instigators of personal responsibility. There's another thing I wanted to talk about. This is about how the budget has been built and how understandable it is when looking through the sub-programmes. Programme sub-programme code 390400 – “Emergency medical assistance”. In this account, 47... several million euros have been placed uncontrollablely in one institution, but there are no targets in the budget... without budgetary targets and without allocation... without classification of functions. There's everything in this sum, and that doesn't correspond to the reality. Maintenance and restoration of state material reserves - it is not marked. It is about a million euros a year, but it is spent on other - internal service purposes, but national security suffers. In general, preparedness, safety, first aid training, disaster medicine, specialised medical assistance for hospitals - all this has been put in, but not named... and the letter’s servants then say, “No, it’s urgent medical help!” And spend this money trying to get rid of other functions. These unmarked features create irrational spending opportunities for rude drivers, allowing them to spend money for unforeseen purposes. The next thing I would like to mention is the inflow of funds allocated to new initiatives into budgets, with subsequent optimisation. I looked... And it was in the context of the last meeting of the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission. 100,000, even a little more, euro will be given for the creation of four new monitoring posts, as well as good medical care for prisoners. We just thought the prison was standing... prison hospital stands empty, there's mess, but so that their complaints can be dealt with, we throw 100 million in... 100,000 to follow these things. And one more thing. These numbers... this money is being given to institutions that have recently optimised these activities. Now, this year, it will be placed as unplanned, but next year it will be placed in a base number, and we will forget, but after two or three years these things will be optimised in the long term. He'll forget what it's given to, and he'll ask again, just a salt in a different section... bureaucracy will require this money! And finally. How can I vote for the health budget and also for the state budget for 2015, if within a few days after the information of the Minister of Health and the Ministry of Health at the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, when it presented the 2015 health sector budget, 6 million of the amounts included in it have suddenly disappeared? Where are they left and at what point? And the fact that of the 40 million needed and promised now was 36, but now only 30 were left. In total, 150 million were to be invested in this sector. And I have a misunderstanding about it. I think that there's so much of an agreement! - the Minister of Finance and the people who adjust this minister are preparing the fate of Guntis Belēvičs Ingrida Circene. I don't know if he's tortured or not tortured... And the next one, why did I say this phrase? This is probably due to the fact that the draft law on the medium-term budgetary victory for 2015, 2016 and 2017 in the basic budget of the Ministry of Health for the following years provides not for the promised and declared growth, but a significant reduction from 750 million to 740 million. Everyone has acknowledged that the growth must be 150, but no, in 2016 and 2017... A reduction is foreseen both. That is why I am sorry. - I cannot support a budget organised and structured in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U263	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U264	Colleagues! This is a budget here. I assume many of you don't even know how it looks. That's what it looks like! ( Shows the hall a legislative package. From the medicine: “Read whole or only part?” ) And in addition, it is printed in small font... double, on both sides. ( From the drug depot. A.Loskutov: Super! ) So if it were now printed in normal font, it would be an additional four times larger. What you offer - you offer this material for all to look at on one day and accept, and within one night then submit proposals. Excuse me! So how will you call it?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Are you... Perhaps it would be worth reminding you of the oath you have read (I assume that many read from the page, so they do not remember what they read there). There is a sentence: ‘... to carry out their duties in good faith and with the best consciousness’. Now you tell me - those who are going to vote in favour of this law - how do you intend not to violate your parliamentary oath, which you made here before the people, to fulfil your duties in good faith and with a better consciousness? How? Silence.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U265	Do not talk to Members. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U266	What you are doing is simply mentioning democracy at the moment. ( From the drug depot. A.Loskutov: “It’s not a topic!” ) The principles laid down by the Constitution - the principles included in our Constitution! - you are now turning into the pornography of democracy that you are directing yourself and that you are successfully doing: it seems from the outside that all its activities are necessary, but that the essence of it is completely perverse. Unfortunately, this is what you are doing with the whole country - simply cynical and uncoated! What's going on? What do you think this country is going on? Do you still think that this is a success story that you are implementing, and that in this way the country is decided for sustainable development? If we look at the budget, do we see your promises on health, on education, on the investments that the infrastructure should make? There is nothing in this budget! ( From the drug: “How is it not? Yes!’ Impressions. Medicines cause noise.) If you believe that the success story can continue to be built, then with real open eyes, look at what is happening in the country! Do you intend to continue in this health care situation? What is happening to the general health situation in society? Where are we going? What will be the quality of our workforce? What happens in education? What happens to our roads, which are permanently lacking even half of the funding? Excuse me! How far are we going to continue this "success story"? Yes, the success of these macro-economic indicators can be explained by simply trying to reduce their costs at the expense of internal reallocation. But it's all exhausted. There is no further growth. You see, everything's starting to slow down. Three years ago, I warned you about where this success story will lead. If you look at your long-term... the medium-term budget for these three years, then you'll see there's no success story there. Even in your budget, this is no longer the case. Why? Because... What I tried to explain to you is that our country's well-being, our success story will be made by people who are sensitive and creative, not beautiful fiscal figures. Beautiful fiscal numbers alone will not be enough! Yeah, what's going on now? Look at what's going on now! All right, we have these beautiful fiscal figures, but these beautiful fiscal figures have been achieved at the expense of the sustainable development factor, turning the money around for human capital, health, education and infrastructure. That's the result? What's going on now? You have understood this that our economy has no longer a future perspective if we continue, as we have done. Now you start talking about making it more productive, yes. But how can you do that if you target all these factors that were necessary to make us more productive, you turn around? Even in those predictions that you yourself are making and that you are talking about... Even with the figures you foresee, it is far too little to be able to make any productivity leap. If we look at countries that are really productive, which have managed to build a knowledge economy and make the economy more productive, then what do we see? Almost all of them share the same characteristic that in their development and research investment amounts to 33.5 per cent of GDP. What do we have? Well, for those who do not know, I can say: this is about 0.5 to 0.6 percent - with dreams that sometime in the future there will be 1.5 percent and that it will be the challenge that we must achieve, but that we will not be able to achieve, as we ourselves now recognise. Then the question is: where will productivity in the economy come from? You say that foreign investors will come and do everything. Excuse me! This strategy does not work at all! It has already gone bankrupt. Why is it bankrupt? Because these investors are not enough of this fiscal beauty. They're not one-night objects. It is interesting and beneficial only to the financial speculators who come here, speculate, lend and leave something. In turn, investors who want to come here with productive long-term investment are interested in something quite different – for example, what the tax environment is here, what the workforce is here for the first time, or where there will be something worth investing at all, so that they can then get a return on the investment and create these values here. There's nothing here! Even more so: even our own entrepreneurs will soon lack the workforce. What is all this about? This shows that you are leading everything to a rather strong impasse. Someone here relentlessly tried to say that he was in a course of things about which he will vote today. I will touch on just one draft law that is put in the package and for some reason you want to move forward very quickly. This is about amending the Electricity Market Act, which has absolutely nothing to do with the budget at all. But why are they moving forward? More! Do you know what you intend to put in these amendments to the law? One of the options envisaged is that in future the economic operator will be able not to pay for the components of compulsory procurement. And if he doesn't do it, then it's okay, because his unpaid amount can be shifted to the other side of the consumer. Question: "What is the purpose?" The other interesting fact. I don't know why, in a great hurry, it is planned that certain producers of renewable electricity... And there is one very specific group - these are wind parks that were previously owned by an ex-politicist... These wind parks have exclusive opportunities to receive a very generous purchase tariff for 20 years. Colleagues! In your own time, you somehow very diligently declared in the previous Saeima that you wanted to fight the oligarchs. And what are you doing now? ( From the drug depot. S. Āboltiņa: “Now tell the jokes!” ) So what about your promises and your words? And most importantly, think about your oath that you have given to the people of Latvia! How do you intend to do that? Will it not be that we all need the line next time... a complete long list of Members whose compliance with the oath will have to be decided by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application? Because if you cannot prove the way in which you get acquainted with this budget, then it is your Member's duty to carry out a consciously, I think it is completely lost. So think about it, and also about your conscience, and more about what you are doing with this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U267	Thank you. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U268	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, colleagues! It has to be said that until a certain moment such an expression of absolute creativity and genius for me as such a benchmark was the phrase Antoine de Saint-Ecziper in the book: “Earness me a lamb!” And then there was a brilliant drawing, where everyone could imagine what the lamb looks like in that box. But at first there was a lamb of an inappropriate shape that did not satisfy the Little Prince. And without irony, I have been saying that, since recently, I have understood that in our creativity we can come closer to this cutting-edge work, because this year's budget was exactly drawn up - not from anything. But seriously, I say that honestly, it is worth amazement. Because if it was absolutely clear in the past that our fiscal space is zero - and that is what we knew when we adopted the 2014 budget - then, forgive me, to draw up 180 million which we can use for new policy initiatives - well, that is the tip of creativity! I envy, and I pay all the respect to those people who worked on it professionally. It is a positive thing that we can do this, and this is only good. I agree with many of the comments and critical remarks made here by the opposition, but let us remember the main points! We are still living in deficit conditions. We also have minus 218 million in the new budget. That's a huge amount of money! They are subject to interest. Does anyone really think we can afford even more... with even more deficit to live? I think not! If you think that their money could have been redistributed differently, then there will certainly be different views on this issue. And yet - was all the opportunities used? I don't think so. Reducing inequality, which was a top priority - it has already been a top priority! - However, we left the foundation for 2016. Yes, we did not really have options at this fast pace at which the budget must be adopted. But as the goal remains, and therefore, in the 2016 budget preparation process, which will be in the first three months of the new year, the main discussion will be on how we have the personal income tax rate and the unlimited minimum and reliefs for dependent persons - children... how we will successfully share it in order to achieve the objective. The second thing we have left in the government at least for the time being is an increase in excise duty on alcohol. This issue has not been addressed for nearly four years. It has been objectively established that, in order to maintain at least the constant availability of alcohol in the country, excise duty on alcohol should be regularly increased in line with the increase in the income of the population. It is known that this increase, based on the average wage in the country, is between 6 and 9 percent. This means that we have spared this sector for almost four years. Well, there is no plan, I hope, neither for the government nor for colleagues in the Saeima, to continue to do so in the coming years, and so I hope that, too, we will close this discussion very soon with considerable results and increase the excise duty on alcohol. Perhaps not everyone has noticed, but I am personally surprised by the fact that the excise duty on water with flavouring substances - not even on sweetened water - is two and a half times higher than that on beer. Well, that's weird! No, it may well be that these aromatic substances are much more harmful than the alcohol that is beer. Maybe! But perhaps, however, this question is worth at least a discussion. What we have left - and I do not think it is really acceptable - is to prevent - at least to prevent! - the tax regression that we have faced with 1 January of this year, because we set a ceiling on social contributions, even though we were able to take other decisions, so to apply other mechanisms, by setting a ceiling on costs, perhaps graduated on several thresholds, at least so as to achieve an additional budget inflow of EUR 30 million - no more, no less - but not less. And what has not yet been reflected as additional support for families with children, despite decisions made in previous years... There are some new policy initiatives in this direction, but they are really small. What would be vital to ensure both reduction of inequality and support for families with children would be the provision of a holiday at least for primary school classes, but it will also be the subject of a discussion. So that, however brilliantly drawing drawings, they can certainly still be improved, and I hope that at least some cosmetic improvements will be made to the budget for this year, too. However, the main gravity of the discussions is still being transferred to the new year so that we can carry out all the preparations for the next year and the medium-term budgetary framework. I call for this budget to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U269	Thank you. Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U270	Dear President of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Dear colleagues, The introduction of the Declaration on the planned activities of the Cabinet of Ministers led by Laimdotas Straujuma states that the government commits to work to ensure the achievement of indicators of the National Plan, and that therefore the employment rate will increase, reaching 73 percent in 2017 in the age group from 20 to 64 years of age. Articles 60, 61 and 62 of Chapter 11 of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” determine the reimbursement of late tax payments by a legal person to the budget of a person who is a member of the board of that legal entity, therefore from an economic operator, but in many cases also from the owner of the company. Such a legal framework discourages establishment in general. Such legal regulation slows down and prevents entrepreneurs from developing new innovative, perhaps risky business projects. Such a legal framework undermines the business environment by adding responsibility to the business shoulders for processes that cannot be affected by them, such as price fluctuations in the markets for the sale of raw materials, materials or products and services. Let us say, the same geopolitical situation that caused losses to Latvian entrepreneurs in the Russian market does not depend on the good will of the businessman, but on factors that do not affect him. When considering risk situations and knowing how large a tax basket is made by employee's personal income tax, social tax, as well as employer's social tax on employees' wages, the entrepreneur will be forced to lay off employees. The public will gain additional pressure on the social budget and the unemployed. By proposing such amendments to the law, the government has decided, instead of helping entrepreneurs to overcome the bottom points of the crisis and to retain a skilled workforce, to punish them for taking courage in achieving something. A safe country is not only where the army, well-paid police and the civil service are trained and trained. A safe country is also where there is a stable and balanced business environment with sustainable jobs. I propose to reject Articles 60, 61 and 62 of Chapter 11 of the draft law on taxes and duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U271	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that five Members - Edward Smilten, Hosama Abu Meri, Augusta Brigmann, Aija Barča and Einars Cilinska - have been invited to continue the sitting of the Saeima on 11 December this year until the examination of all the items on the agenda (Dep. A.Bērzins: “It’s very right! That's right!' ) with breaks from 18.00 to 18.30, from 22.00 to 20.30, from 22.00 to 22.30 and from 24.00 to 00.30 in the morning, if, of course, the Saeima sitting will be so long. Are Members opposed to these breaks? So Members do not have any reservations at least at the moment. Maybe it is? Mr Bondara, do you have any reservations? There is therefore no objection. Members support this proposal. In the next debate, Mr Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U272	Dear colleagues, Some of you, I think, have rightly criticised the fact that a very short time has been given to evaluate this budget - to get to know, assess and be able to comment on it - but I think there is no such great separation between the executive and the legislative powers in Latvia today, so that when actually drawing up the budget, the position parties are already working with the executive - with the Cabinet of Ministers, so yesterday we had the prime minister. In general, these questions have already been discussed in advance. I understand that this issue is more topical for the opposition Members, because time is really quite small to get acquainted with the budget. As a retired soldier, I cannot ignore the budget chapter dedicated to defence and NATO with 43 years of service. We have to look at this: there are two international treaties in which we participate. One of these is the Maastricht criteria, which require that the budget deficit should not exceed 2 per cent. We're planning 0.9 next year... Well, about 1 percent. In this respect, we are first-ranking and I fully support the fact that we are not spending much more than we have earned. But the question arises: if we devoted 2 percent to defence and our budget deficit would be 1.9 percent, we would also be among the best countries that comply with this rule, because the second international rule is NATO's requirements to allocate 2 percent to national defence. Next. Talking about them... ( The grass has increased in noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U273	Mr. Chair, one moment! Colleagues, please remain silent in the room! I understand that everyone is tired, but let us respect the speakers at the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U274	I will now ask a couple of questions, and everyone will be able to answer. And to know. You know maybe, but I'll remind you again. In 2007 our government debt was 8 percent of GDP. Eight! In 2010 - 45 per cent of GDP, in 2014 - 40 per cent of GDP, in 2015 - 35 per cent of GDP. We are among the good countries, because there is a debt of up to 60 per cent of GDP allowed. And in some countries it is almost 100 percent of GDP! But it is a big debt: it is more than our country's budget. Go on. I have a question here. In 2009, our budget... 36 percent of gross domestic product... Well, salt more than a third... In 2011 - 32 percent... Well, what you got, you can look at: 28 percent in 2015, 27 percent in 2016, 26 percent in 2017... The question is: what tax has been reduced for us in recent years if we fall in the budget chapter as a percentage of gross domestic product? I also want to say that Estonians have 34 percent of GDP... Then the question is: what taxes do we have less than Estonia? Because it's real... When we say that we want health, education - and so on - so much of GDP, protection - 2 per cent of GDP, then we have to look at: we already have something to share next year, 2015 - 28.6 per cent of GDP. So there's something to share. If Estonians have 34 percent, then they have more to share with GDP! Then the question... We should also analyse why we have the smaller chapter of GDP, which are the reasons. But I am calling for budget support, and I will also support it. I'm just asking questions, these are questions for reflection.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U275	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I call on my colleagues to take their seats in the Chamber. Mr. Dalder, Mr. Schic, Mr. Vectyran! Please take your seats in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U276	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima!...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U277	Name... Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U278	Oh, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U279	Name to Member Juris Villums. Please! ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “It would be a pup... “)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U280	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Minister! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that, like any coalition Member, every Member of the opposition too is in favour of the timely adoption of the state budget, the assessment of the quality of the state budget, the adjustment and approval of the budget, as far as possible. This is, after all, the most important decision of the Saeima of the year, which ministers, officials, teachers, businessmen are waiting for... and already party sponsors. Today several colleagues have already stressed that every Latvian citizen also wants the budget to be balanced, logically based at least on promises of election of coalition parties. Then, too, public confidence in the implementation of such a budget in both the expenditure and revenue sections will be greater... I'll go on... ( A little pause. Depp. I.Zariņš: “It will be good!” However, people's trust in parties and the entire parliament of the Republic of Latvia would only grow. At present, the level of public confidence in the Saeima is catastrophicly low, slightly higher for the government, but the relationship between the decision-making and executive powers of Latvia is interesting. In theory, more than 60 percent of the Saeima’s government trust. At least this was your vote in approving the government. But the government of the Saeima doesn't... not only the opposition, but also the coalition does not trust at all. The most important draft of the year is presented in the Saeima hastily, one could even say rather embarrassed, hastily, in the middle of the week, and the next day, so today, the budget is already being wanted to be adopted at first reading. Next night Members will have the opportunity to play with numbers like in such a poker game, and in a week's time, the Ministry of Finance will be able to crack open the champagne thanks for their pragmatic approach to a matter of national importance. There is a feeling that one judge of a district court is more evaluated by the Commission than by state budget positions. Then there is justification, reasoning, listening to claims, but above all, decision-making is not on the Saeima's agenda, so to speak, on the back door. The Minister states that 15 minutes is enough to understand the figures in the budget and to decide fully on its content. Mr. Zarins has been embarrassing you a moment ago. Be honest and open. Tell us which one of you is familiar with the entire 2015 budget package! Please, get your hands up! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Šadurskis and several Members of the Group's Unity raise their hands.) Thank you. So for the rest of the soft cushion, the coalition politician can put in his head, there's a ignorance. You do not seem to be interested in a more detailed digital analysis of the budget. Mr Bondara has already mentioned raising the minimum wage to EUR 360. I would add, for my part, that such raising of a minimum wage at the moment by the government is really the cheapest way to take care of those who receive the least. The increase in wage costs in state and municipal structures has already been included in the budget. But what will the private sector do, especially in regions? It is clear to everyone here that once again the "success story" will be put on the citizen of the country, this time on the shoulders of a small businessman. Moreover, at a time when many entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, often in the form of government or European Union compensation, are struggling with the negative consequences of Russia's aggression in Ukraine in the business environment. In Latgale, several companies have already announced the reduction of their employees or the elimination of individual units. Although once again the government has applied for the fight against the shadow economy, as a result, entrepreneurs will pay their employees even more in the wage envelopes, as is already the case in the whole territory of Latvia. In this way - by the way, right in Riga - I think the state budget goes in the highest amounts. Inflatable minimum. I shall briefly mention that in Finland, for example, it was EUR 1341 in 2013, and in Ireland too, it was sufficiently high, but the European minimum was on average EUR 750. Given that in Latvia the price level of consumption and services is about 80 per cent of the European Union's prices, in fact, already at this moment in Latvia this inexpensive minimum should be 500 euros. I would also like to touch very briefly on the field of education and on the idea of publicising teachers' salaries. It has to be said that the regions are more often in favour of this idea - with the addition that it should not only be the number of salaries, but also the number of hours and loads that the teacher has to work on in order to receive the relevant salary. This would clearly show the problems of the system, the difference between the work carried out in rural schools and the work carried out by the Pieris local government schools. The Ministry and the government do not yet have a solution, so this initiative has unfortunately already been put in the deepest drawer. The child is not guilty of being born in the border area, not in the Municipality of Pierīga, where teachers are even paid several times. Inequal treatment of teachers needs to be eliminated. This would also prevent unequal treatment between children and their parents. Today's regulation is likely to violate the Constitution because children are not given equal access to quality education in all regions. As regards the new policy initiatives under this budget, it should be said that some of them provide for the creation and strengthening of new bodies and existing ones, in particular in the sectors related to internal and external security, within the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior or their subordinate services. In this context, I would like to express the hope that the existing or innovative structures in the border regions - Vidzeme and, in particular, Latgale - will be strengthened as a priority, so that all the concerns expressed in the press and in the government about our borders do not blame only a few conferences and new offices in Riga, while the existing structures in Latgale are constantly optimised or, in simple words, closed. The branch of the Bank of Latvia in Daugavpils - not really a security authority, but yet. That is the fact that 30 jobs will be lost in the region. The effective local explainers of facts have already turned it into a gradual evacuation of Latvian state structures. If you want to optimise public expenditure, start with Riga, not regions. At least in words before the elections, all the parties elected by the Saeima were in favour of balanced development of all the regions. In conclusion. You see, only some 13 Members have admitted that there is at least... Well, yes, admit he's met... tried to convince me that he was familiar with the entire 2015 budget. But the rest of the coalition seem to be very modest: it must be entirely enough with the EUR 20 000 promised by each of the national budget supporters by the Coalition Council. ( THE INTERPRETATION OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF THE PRINCIPALITY OF MEMBERS.) Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, It all looks pathetic and beautiful to buy. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U281	Thank you. Mr Liepiņš spoke in the next debate. ( Noise is on the grass.) Mr. Liepins, will you have six minutes? ( From the drug depot. D.Liepiņš: “If you provide order in the hall, it will be enough!” ) Mr. Liepiņš, you were not given the floor now! ( Someone says, “Tell me! ” ) Please! Name to Member Dainie Liepiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U282	Thank you. Colleagues! Mrs. Strautums! I really will not go into numbers and I will not try to tease you with an analysis of the budget in the form that has been the case so far. And to be honest, I just applied to speak because I hadn't heard what I wanted to say myself because I wouldn't have said it again... In this situation, I would like to say that the budget - that is the law that the entire official will follow throughout 2015 - will also adapt to business, and everyone will try to keep to the goal we have set. And so it should reflect its faith and trust so that we can achieve great goals. We must have faith in those goals and trust in those people who are realizing them. At the moment, in this situation, it is not worth analysing the figures, because we have been given our mandate by voters and those who have more will put forward their programme, and that is the budget. And we can work with each other in different ways - regardless of political affiliation - here, in such a small format of circus clowns, to speak to each other, but that is the reality, and we have to accept it. The other question. Beyond the walls of this house, no one is interested in who political party owns; people are interested in what will be the result of the economic prosperity of this country and how the noble words that Mrs Straujuma mentioned and which I fully agree with will be realised in life. And in this situation, I would just like one, Mrs Straujuma. When we spoke last time, we said that the budget would be the document on which we would build... I would call upon you, in addition to the figures that are, to give faith to the people so that she believes in the objectives that have been entered in the budget, and to entrust you and the whole Cabinet of Ministers who are pursuing them. In order not to be in this situation, we are feeding for public money at the Lourique Group airport. Let the situation not be that - the whole industry knows! - there is no particularly fair procurement procedures for salt and dolomite fragments in the maintenance of roads. In order to avoid that even law enforcement institutions have shown interest in renting Latvian Railway Rolling Stock to economic operators at more than ten times lower prices than they have in the market. And so that there is no situation where the priority is that we must ensure that there are well-designed salaries for the councils, which are ten times higher than the world's practice, and that does not promote confidence. I really wish you well, both on your own and on behalf of the whole party, because we have not come here to fight for positions. We have come here so that my children, your children and everyone else can live better. And, unfortunately, in this budget, I do not see the commitment that we would finally put in place a certain order in the country. The cost of the administration is increasing, business opportunities are decreasing. And that's the wrong proportion, because if I have one euro in my pocket, then I can spend one euro. Unfortunately, at the moment it looks like our office wants to spend 1.5 euros, although it has only one euro. And it's looking for where to borrow €0.5. Such a policy is unlikely to be supported. And one more thing. I'd advise you... It is that we are now a little behaved as such an oil-producing country. It feels like this: If we decide that a minister is going abroad, then he certainly needs one accompanying person by many thousands. If we choose to buy cars from the ministries, then they are definitely high-class and luxury. We don't even solve such elementary things, and, you know, there's... In my opinion, as it is in times of economic weakness in Europe, including Latvia, we should start to think about our appetite at the moment, as eating can also become ill. And modesty is sometimes a very healthy norm to maintain health. I really wish this government the success of this budget, and that is true words, not theatre. I will not support this budget, not because I have something against this government, but because there are many things that I believe have not been debated. And I can't support what I don't know. And the format in which the budget is presented to us is probably hasty. There are reasons for this on your side, and there are also reasons for the opposition to criticise it. May you be successful in every case, and I have great hope that you will be able to restore your faith in the people. Thank you. ( Ambitious by the members of the LRA Group.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U283	Thank you. I also closed the debate. Colleagues, I would like to inform you that Members Edward Smilten, Hosam Abu Meri, Ilze Viņķelė, Ints Dālderis, Einārs Cilinskis and Ivars Zarins are asking the Saeima to continue its meeting on 11 December this year, without interruption, until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? ( From the drug depot. A. Berzins: “We have already agreed!” ) There is no objection by Members. Wonderful! Let's keep the Saeima sitting! So the debate is closed. On behalf of the Commission, does Mr Shadursky want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U284	Yes, honourable colleagues, if I took the floor in the debate, I would certainly condemn Mr Bondara's false accusations against officials of the Ministry of Finance, but, since I have to speak on behalf of the Commission, I can only say that most of the criticisms expressed by the opposition today were already expressed and debated at the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. When it comes to part of the opposition's reservations, they were justified, but the wishes of society and the budgetary opportunities give us the frame within which we can work. And I would like to say that, as far as possible, this is a good budget for development, reduction of inequality and security. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U285	In accordance with the procedure, we must vote on each of the draft laws separately. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the adoption of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 3, for - 7. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U286	The Commission is asking for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals at 10 a.m. on 12 December and a second reading at 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U287	Thank you. Are there any other proposals? Other proposals... Turn on, please, the microphone member, Pimenov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U288	Thank you, however, I propose a different deadline: tomorrow at 12.00.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U289	Is there another proposal? Turn on the microphone for the Member Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U290	Colleagues! I call on us to give at least one day to the proposals! How much can you afford?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Tomorrow till the end of the week - by 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U291	So, December 12 at 5 pm. We now need to vote and start with the proposal which sets a deadline. First we will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia” to be set at 17.00 on 12 December! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 55, for - 2. The proposal is therefore rejected. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia” to be set at 12 December at 12 noon! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 50, abstaining - 2. The proposal is rejected. The following proposal was therefore adopted: 12 December at 10 a.m. - submission of proposals, and consideration at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Administration of Prisons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 6, for - 7. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U292	I call for the time limit for tabling proposals to be 10 a.m. on 12 December, and for the second reading to be held at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U293	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration - 17 December of the Saeima extraordinary meeting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the law on detention procedures! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - 7, for - 7, for - 7 So the draft law was supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U294	12 December at 10 a.m., consideration - Saeima at the extraordinary sitting of 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U295	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals - 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration - the Saeima meeting on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Office for Internal Security. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading was supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U296	12, at 10 a.m., consideration - Saeima, 17 December, extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U297	There are no other proposals. So the submission of proposals by 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration by the Saeima at the extraordinary meeting of 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Public Probation Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was therefore approved at first reading. Please specify the deadline for submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U298	12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U299	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration - 17 December of the Saeima extraordinary meeting. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, against - 28, refrains. The draft law was therefore approved at first reading. Please determine the time and time for submission of proposals for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U300	12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U301	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 15, for - 14. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U302	12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U303	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration - the Saeima at its meeting on 17 December this year. ( Interface from the drug: “There is also another proposal! ” ) Sorry, you had a timely opportunity... You had the opportunity to also apply in time with the button. Yes, thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! ( Intercretion from the Hall: “We voted! It's next!” ) Please vote mode!... I am sorry, please follow the agenda and activate the right draft laws. I'm sorry about this incident! And I ask you again: Department of Documents, follow the draft laws and activate the correct draft laws! Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -59, for -16, for -12. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U304	12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U305	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - 12 December at 10 a.m., consideration - Saeima at its meeting on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 8, for - 21. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U306	Like others - 12 December at 10 a.m., and 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U307	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Therefore, the proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 88, for - no, for - 1. So the draft law at first reading was supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U308	12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U309	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 12 December at 10 a.m., and consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 58, it's not 29, it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a time limit for the submission and examination of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U310	12 December at 10 a.m., consideration - 17 December extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U311	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Therefore, the proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 14, for - 15. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the time for submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U312	Proposals - 12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U313	Are there any other proposals? Turn on the microphone for Igor Pimenov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U314	I ask you to set the deadline tomorrow at 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U315	Please turn on the microphone... Who else applied? Oh, that was... I'm sorry! It is proposed that the time limit for the submission of tenders should be 12 December at 12 noon. So we must first vote on the deadline. Please call me! We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”” to be set as follows: 12 December at 12.00 a.m.! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal is therefore not supported. As a result, the deadline for submitting proposals remains at 10 a.m. on 12 December, and consideration - at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading was supported. Please determine the time and time for submission of proposals for consideration at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U316	12 December at 10 a.m., discussion - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U317	Do Members have other proposals? There are no other proposals. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, and the discussion should take place at the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 17 December. Colleagues! I call on you to focus on your work and stop the negotiations! Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -59, for -13, for -15. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U318	12 December at 10 a.m., discussion - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U319	Are there any other proposals? There are no other proposals. Consequently, submission of proposals by 12 December at 10 a.m. and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the time for submission of proposals and the time for examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U320	Deadline for submission of proposals - 12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U321	There are no other proposals. So the proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Information System of the Occupied Territories"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -73, against -14, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for the examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U322	12 December at 10 a.m., discussion - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U323	There are no other proposals. Therefore, proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Education Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -29, refrains - not. The draft law was therefore approved at first reading. Please determine the time for the submission and examination of proposals at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U324	12 December at 10 a.m. - Proposals, examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U325	There are no other proposals. Therefore, proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please determine the time for the submission and examination of proposals at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U326	December 12, at 10 a.m., consideration - December 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U327	There are no other proposals. Therefore, proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 15, for - 15, for - 15. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for the submission and examination of proposals at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U328	12 December at 10 a.m., examination - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U329	Therefore, proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, and consideration should take place at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the medium-term budgetary framework for 2015, 2016 and 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U330	12 December at 10 a.m. - proposals and discussion - 17 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U331	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Therefore, proposals should be submitted by 10 a.m. on 12 December, at the meeting of the Saeima on 17 December. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “On the State Budget for 2015”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, 30, abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please determine the time for the submission and examination of proposals at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U332	Thank you, dear colleagues, for the vote. On the deadline for the submission of proposals, please set at 10 a.m. on 12 December, and the second reading at 17 December, in an extraordinary session.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U333	Yes, thank you. There are no other proposals for colleagues. It is therefore necessary to submit the proposals by 10 a.m. on 12 December, and the consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 17 December. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". The budget and financial (tax) commission has submitted the draft decision “On the procedure (form) for the submission of proposals for the 2015 draft state budget laws package”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U334	Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission has approved the procedure for submitting proposals (form) and invites to support it by decision of the Saeima sitting as well. In some words, why? Just to make it easier for all colleagues and employees to work. There is therefore a request to submit proposals in electronic form, not to be scanned as an image, but to be common and recopyable to the tables and not to be handwritten. You have both the draft decision itself and tables with examples that will help you to do it easily. I call for support. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “Who will... You should have told me more!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U335	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the procedure (form) for submitting proposals for the 2015 national budget package”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - 14, for - 3. The draft decision is therefore adopted. Thank you, Mr Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U337	Colleagues! I would like to inform you about the questions put by Members and the replies - the question and the answers scheduled for today at 5 p.m. The written responses received to Members Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Ločmele-Lunova and other Members' questions to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss “On Implementation of Rail Baltica Project” are not satisfied. And since the minister cannot come, the question is moved to the next week. The written reply received by Member Zarina, Urbanovich, Ribakova, Potapkin and other Members to the question of Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the real acquirers of the state-owned “Citadeles” shares” is not satisfied. However, the issue is being moved to the next week, as it is being directed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the completion of the task given to the Cabinet of Ministers” by Members Agešins, Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Zemļinskas and Potapkina has been referred to the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis. And since the applicants are satisfied with the written answer, the question is considered to have been answered. The question by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Elksniņa, Klementyeva and Pimenov, Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs, about welfare requirements of fur animals. The applicants shall be satisfied with the written answer and the question shall be deemed to have been answered. The question by Member Pimenova, Urbanoviča, Mirska, Rubika and Cilevičs to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On possible conclusion of an option agreement between the Government of Latvia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on the sale of shares in EBRD Citadele banka and Reverta to the Government of Latvia” is forwarded to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. As the Minister is unable to attend, the question should be moved to the next week. The question by Members Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Nikiforova, Ivan Klementyeva and other Members to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the pay of medical staff and the provision of medical services” has been referred to the Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs, and the applicants are satisfied with the written answer. The question is therefore considered to have been answered. The question of Members Elksniņa, Tutina, Tretjaka, Lochmeles-Lunova and Stepanenko to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the pay and social guarantees of officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior” has been referred to the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis. The applicants shall be satisfied with the written answer and the question shall be deemed to have been answered. The question of Members Zarina, Nikiforova, Ivan Klementyeva, Stepanenko and Urbanovich to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On Implementation of Rail Baltica Project” has been referred to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. As the Minister is unable to attend today's oral response, the answer to the question should be moved to the next week. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On AS Air Baltic Corporation and SJSC Riga International Airport” has been referred to the Minister of Transport Anria Matīss. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister cannot come, and the answer to the question must be moved to the next week. One additional question has been asked by Members Zarins, Tutins, Mirskis and others, which is addressed to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, “On avoidance of information regarding the real acquirers of the shares in Citadele AS owned by the State”. That is what we will give the addressee a reply. Thank you. It is therefore time to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U338	Dear colleagues, please respond if you are here. Jānis Adamsons, Raimonds Bergmanis, Inga Bite, Boriss Cilevičs, Andrejs Elksniņš, Romanas Mežeckis... is, Romanas Nadiņš, Vitalijs Orlovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-11-PT12-276-U339	Thank you. I'm closing the meeting.
