ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 27 November! Before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments to it shall be examined. The Bureau received 15 amendments to the agenda of today's meeting. The Commission shall request that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Movement of Arms and Special Resources” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Seimas Rules of Procedure be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include on the agenda the draft law prepared for the first reading “On recognition of the Law “On Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum” as null and void”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” to be included on the agenda for the first reading. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to Members? Members have no objections to the change of agenda. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption shall request that the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” be included on the agenda in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Seimas Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft law “Law on Judicial Experts” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of Kristīne Brokane as a judge of a district (city) court” to be on the agenda. Are there any objections to an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of Romana Dončenko as a judge of a district (city) court” to be on the agenda. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of Māra Markova as a district (city) court judge” to be on the agenda. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to include in the agenda the draft decision of the Saeima “On approval of Peters Novičenoks as a judge of a district (city) court”. Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to include in the agenda the draft decision of the Saeima “On approval of Agnese Pūcīte as a judge of a district (city) court”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for the draft decision of the Saeima to be included on the agenda “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014”. Are there any objections to changes to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Šadurskis, Āboltiņa, Smiltēns, Ainars Latkovskis, Judins, Ķirsis and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision of the Saeima “On the withdrawal of Member Kārlis Šadurskis from the Commission of European Affairs”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Šadurskis, Āboltiņa, Smiltēns, Ainars Latkovskis, Judin, Ķirsis and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of Member Kārlis Šadurskis to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. We are therefore starting to examine the amended agenda. The first section is entitled ‘The Bureau reports on draft laws submitted’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery” presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Copyright Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Protection of Witnesses of 24 May 2012” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia” be handed over to the Education, Culture and Science Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. So the bill has been passed on. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. So the next item on the agenda is: 'On unpaid leave granted to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis on 27 November this year'. The Bureau of the Saeima shall inform the Bureau that it has received a request from Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis to grant him unpaid leave on 27 November this year. The Bureau granted him this leave and informed the Saeima about it. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. So the next item on the agenda is the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima by the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! At the request of the Minister of Finance, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has decided to appoint Janis Trupovnieks for this post. I call for the draft decision to be approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U3	Thank you. We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund! Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the representative of the Saeima in the Council of the Municipal Equalisation Fund! Please vote mode! Please get the result! So it's not - 76, it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision “On the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on Latvia’s State Action, evaluating the causes of the tragedy that took place in Zolitūde on 21 November 2013, and on the follow-up of regulatory acts and activities of state administration and municipalities to prevent the repetition of similar tragedies, as well as on actions to prevent the election of members from the consequences of the tragedy.” Members Augusts Brigmanis, Gaidis Bērziņš, Nellija Kleinberga, Jānis Urbanovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa and Inguna Silverba have submitted a draft decision “On the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on Latvia’s State Action, assessing the causes of the tragedy that took place in Zolitūdes on 21 November 2013, as well as on the follow-up of regulatory acts and activities of public administration and municipalities to prevent the repetition of similar tragedies, as well as on actions to prevent the consequences of this tragedy from being elected”. Or... So no one has applied to speak in the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the State Action of Latvia, evaluating the causes of the tragedy that took place in Zolitūda on 21 November 2013, and on the follow-up of regulatory acts and activities of state administration and municipalities to prevent the repetition of similar tragedies, as well as on actions to prevent the election of members from the consequences of this tragedy”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the procedure for the sale of 75 % of the state-owned shares of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, the expenses for sales consultants and the election of members of the public relations services during the sale process! Members Augusts Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Nally Kleinberga, Jānis Urbanovičs, Solvita Āboltiņa and Inguna Silverba have submitted a draft decision “On the direction of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the sale process of 75% of state-owned Citadele’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, the expenses for sales consultants and the election of members of the public relations in the sale process”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the direction of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the sale process of 75 % of the state-owned shares in Citadele, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and election of members of the public relations services in the sale process”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft decision adopted... Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Kristīne Brokane as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, the rapporteur is Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 November this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Brokane as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Kristīne Brokani to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Kristīne Brokane as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Romana Dončenko as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U6	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 November this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Romana Dončenko as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Roman Dončenko to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Romana Dončenko as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Māra Markova as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U8	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 November, the draft decision “On the approval of Māra Markova as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Maris Markova to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Māra Markova as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. I would like to inform you of any changes to the agenda of this sitting. Members Smiltēns, Čigāne, Āboltiņa, Kalniņš and others are asking the Saeima to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Edwards Smiltēns from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Wolks, Dzintars, Debtor and others are asking... ( Slaughter with a hammer.) ... include in the agenda of this sitting the draft law ‘Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law’. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) And objections... The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U10	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Despite the fact that some of you had already raised red cards, I would nevertheless like to call for this matter to be placed on the agenda of today's sitting. And I'll explain why. Colleagues, I remind you that those who represented their voters in the previous Saeima also voted for major amendments to the insolvency law at one of the last 11th Saeima sittings. These amendments provided for a number of essential elements. First, the determination of the status of a public official to the administrators of insolvency proceedings. Secondly, deal with questions relating to convenience creditors in legal protection proceedings and out-of-court redress proceedings. Third, additional responsibility for non-transfer of documents was imposed on the members of the board. Fourthly, it made it easier for a natural person to submit applications for insolvency proceedings, including by introducing a so-called application for family insolvency proceedings. It is not possible to implement all these amendments into practice from 1 January of the following year, as set out in the insolvency law, unless amendments to the Civil Procedure Law are adopted, which will form the basis for the court to apply this substantive law accordingly in civil procedure. If these amendments are not supported, it actually means that by your vote you are already indirectly withdrawing the entry into force of the insolvency law on 1 January, because such a decision will obviously then have to be taken because, as I said, it is impossible to implement this law into life if these amendments to the Civil Procedure Law are not adopted. Furthermore, I would also like to separate myself from any criticism that the Ministry of Justice has not prepared these amendments in good time. The Ministry of Justice could not prepare these amendments more quickly, given, as I said, that it was precisely the previous Saeima in one of the last sittings of this Saeima that supported these amendments to the insolvency law. Consequently, this time has been really short. These amendments have also been discussed in the working group of the Civil Procedure Law at the Ministry of Justice. Perhaps if any clarification is necessary, then the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Legal Bureau, is ready to perform them accordingly. Request to support the inclusion of this item on the agenda of the sitting Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U11	Thank you. ‘ Solvita Āboltiņa, Member, applies to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U12	Good morning, honourable colleagues! You've just heard both what we took... how significant the changes are provided for in the insolvency law, and you have also heard the argument why it is being tried to include it today. Such same amendments were rejected yesterday by the Legal Commission, which is the commission responsible for seeing this draft law, only because the Civil Procedure Law is one of the most important procedural laws and amendments of a very large scale, which were already indicated by experts in the first discussion, cannot be adopted. But what Gaidis Berzins said from this tribunal: “You will be guilty that we will be forced to open the insolvency law and extend the period of entry into force of the amendments adopted... “ We will not be guilty, because Parliament has to be responsible for both the quality of the law and the submission of these reforms, and the fact that such discussions here in Parliament had to be expected to come up with such amendments... The insolvency law here was mulled for a long and dictated time. This was one unique law in which for the third reading the proposals had been able to be submitted by three justice ministers at the same time. And so now suddenly pretending that we didn't know anything, we didn't realize that the parliament today rejected this only opportunity to adopt amendments to the procedural law in a hurry... I strongly reject it. If such a situation has occurred, then the Cabinet of Ministers, together with the Ministry of Justice, must offer a solution that is understandable to the public. A poor quality draft law in Parliament is not acceptable at the back door. I call on you not to support changes to today's agenda and the Ministry of Justice to work on a quality bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U13	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to commissions... inclusion on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 23, against - 66, refraining from - 2. The agenda has therefore not been amended. Members Smiltens, Chigāne, Āboltiņa, Kalniņš and others are asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include a draft decision on the election of Member Edward Smiltens to the European Affairs Commission. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks to amend the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 27 November 2014 and to include the draft law “Law on the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brethren Cemetery” on the basis of Article 86 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the draft decision of the Saeima on the approval of Peter Novičenok as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U14	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 November, the draft decision “On the approval of Peter Novičenok as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Pēteris Novičenkos to approve the judge of district (city) court without limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Peters Novičenoks as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of Agnese Pucīte as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U16	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 November, the draft decision “On the approval of Agnese Pūcīte as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Agnese Pucite to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Agnese Pucīte as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the withdrawal of Mr Šadurskis from the Commission on European Affairs. Members Šadurskis, Āboltiņa, Smiltēns, Ainars Latkovskis and others have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Kārlis Šadurskis from the Commission of European Affairs”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Kārlis Šadurskis from the Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Members Šadurskis, Āboltiņa, Smiltēns, Ainars Latkovskis and others have submitted a draft decision “On the election of Member Kārlis Šadurskis to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Kārlis Šadurskis to the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Members Smiltēns, Čigāne, Āboltiņa, Kalniņš, Zaķis and others have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Edward Smiltēns from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Edward Smilten from the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Members Smiltens, Chigāne, Āboltiņa, Kalniņš, Zaķis and others have submitted a draft decision on the election of Member Edward Smiltens to the European Commission for European Affairs. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Edward Smilten to the European Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima". Thus, in accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U18	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs already worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” at the 11th Saeima. The law has very serious objectives: to regulate the retransmission sector in line with the requirements of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive and to prevent unequal competition in the advertising market. I therefore call on the Commission to support the inclusion of this draft law on the agenda of the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U19	Thank you. Regina Ločmele-Lunova, Member of the European Parliament, took part in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U20	Hello, dear colleagues! So the position of the Social Democratic Party in respect of amendments to the Law on Electronic Media is as follows. The draft law is intended to tackle a truly serious problem, namely the elimination of unequal competition between broadcasters. Unfortunately, the solution proposed cannot be considered satisfactory. Firstly, the norm of including all electronic media performing economic activities in Latvia under the jurisdiction of Latvia is purely declarative. We do not have the means to implement this rule. Secondly, the proposal to include advertising aimed at Latvian citizens only in programmes the owners of which have obtained a broadcasting authorisation may run counter to European Union rules on the free market for services and cross-border television. Thirdly, the new rules providing for the extension of the minimum package of teleprogrammes to subscribers may result in a significant increase in the price of this package and therefore reduce the availability of these programmes to the low-income Latvian population. Moreover, these rules are in fact only applicable to one platform, the cable-television service provider. They are therefore not in line with the principle of technological neutrality and may place cable TV service providers in a situation of unequal competition compared with other platform providers (e.g. terrestrial broadcasting, satellite TV and the Internet). While acknowledging the urgency of the problem, the Group cannot, however, support the proposed legislation and calls for further work in close cooperation with the industry, carefully examining all possible consequences of such legislative changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U21	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, do you want to add something, Mrs. Lazanne?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U22	Yeah. The Commission has also identified all these problems, and that is why there is a commitment to work very hard... work exactly that way, in cooperation with the industry. And for this to continue, the bill must be on the Saeima's agenda. So, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Thank you. Please get the result! For - 64, for - 3, for - 25. The decision has been taken. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs? There is therefore no objection. The 12th Saeima will therefore also be responsible for human rights and public affairs commission. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U24	Deadline for submission of proposals - December 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U25	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 December. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U26	Good morning, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents. The aim of this draft legislation is to ensure a more secure use of the electronic signature and the draft legislation extends the use of the secure electronic signature by removing pre-defined restrictions on the use of electronic documents, such as private transactions in the area of family law. It also provides for other amendments. In the Commission, we have decided to take over this draft law, and I therefore call for a vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Documents” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are there any objections to Members that the committee responsible in the 12th Saeima is also the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? There is no objection. The Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is also responsible for the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U28	Colleagues, the deadline for proposals is 11 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U29	This year... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U30	...11 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U31	11 December of this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Ingmars Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U32	Hello, dear colleagues! So, to your attention, the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act". I would remind you that, during the 11th Saeima, this draft law had already been examined in two readings, and very many - almost one hundred - proposals were debated. This draft law sets out a number of terms and procedures for the management of bio-waste in line with European directives. These amendments to the law provide more opportunities for municipalities to co-operate at municipal level for joint management of waste. I think that this draft law will not be much and wide-rangingly debated anymore, and I therefore call on the Commission to continue its examination quite smoothly at the 12th Saeima as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the bill will also be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are there any objections to Members that the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission will also be responsible in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is therefore responsible for this draft law. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U34	Thank you. The commission responsible will await your proposals by 4 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U35	So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Strengthening them in Land Registers””. On behalf of the Commission, Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U36	Good morning, colleagues! This draft law was discussed at the 11th Saeima in two readings. A working group was set up and the main idea of this draft law was to exclude municipalities from renting land that would make it easier for them to deal with the land. Following a long debate, the 12th Saeima Members supported the Commission's proposal for a further examination of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, I am asking for support for the Commission's view.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Rights of Land Property of the State and Municipalities and Their Strengthening in Land Registers” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are there any objections to Members that the committee responsible for the 12th Saeima is the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? There is no objection. So the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U38	The deadline is December 4, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U39	So the proposals are expected by 4 December this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U41	In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the review of the draft law on “Amendments to the Road Transport Law” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Inesis Boķe.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U42	Good morning, honourable colleagues! So this bill has already been seen in the previous Saeima, and when we look at it in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we voted in favour of its inclusion on the agenda of this parliamentary term. The aim of the draft law is to specify the concepts of regular and occasional carriage of passengers, as well as the draft provides for the delegation of the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down the procedure for carrying out these carriages. However, I would also like to note that these changes have also been accepted by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Latvian Municipal Union, the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia, the Transport Department of Riga City Council and others. I call for these draft amendments to be included on the agenda of the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U43	Thank you. Member Valery Agešin applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U44	Dear colleagues, I believe that, given the economic situation in the country, it is particularly important to support and develop entrepreneurship, while respecting fair competition in the field of road transport and the interests of passengers. Unfortunately, the actual aim of this draft law is to strengthen monopoly rights for regular transport operators, or bus parks, who receive public subsidies even on profitable routes, and to exclude occasional transport operators or those carrying groups of passengers, for example, between Latvian cities. Continued attempts to make amendments to the Road Transport Law for several years contrary to the interests of passengers and the will of majority members of the Saeima prove the wish of individual bus fleet shareholders to eliminate their competitors – irregular carriers. I have every reason to fear that a way of legally stealing a business that has been built for years for irregular passenger carriers has now been invented again. I call on the Saeima to prevent this. I would like to draw your attention to some points of principle in the context of Article 1, paragraph 23. This concerns the definition of the term ‘irregular carriage of passengers’. The first problem. In comparison with the current version of the law, the second sentence of this paragraph has disappeared from the draft law: ‘The carriage of these services shall not lose its status as occasional carriage solely because it is carried out at certain intervals’. I would like to remind you that this provision is in the current version of the Road Transport Act and fully complies with European Union legislation. We cannot exclude this sentence from the draft law because it would be contrary to Regulation (EC) No.1073/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 on common rules for access to the international market for coach and bus services. The third sentence of Article 5(3) of the Regulation states precisely: ‘The occasional carriage shall not cease to be occasional carriage solely because it is carried out at certain intervals.’ In addition, in accordance with Annex II to the Regulation, a Member State shall issue a Community authorisation for commercial passenger transport operators. The authorisation shall be accompanied by the General Provisions. Paragraph 9 of the general rules contains definitions, including the provision that occasional services shall not lose their status as occasional services solely because they are carried out at certain intervals. Permissions Paragraph 2 of the General Rules provides that a carrier fulfils the conditions laid down in the Community rules on authorisation to pursue the occupation of road passenger transport operator in national and international transport. This means that the definitions of the different types of bus and coach transport should be the same as those used in international transport. All these rules are literally included in the text of the Community licence - the authorisations issued for commercial passenger transport by coach and bus in all European Union countries, including Latvia. This means that this Regulation applies both to international passenger transport and to domestic commercial passenger transport. This Regulation, which shall apply from 4 December 2011, shall be binding upon Latvia as a Member State of the European Union and shall be complied with literally. The other problem. It is not clear what point 23 of Article 1 of the draft law is meant by the following: ‘functionally serves the same passengers as are, or could be, served in the framework of regular passenger services’. This unwarranted definition is so widely interpreted as to allow functional service and automatically to be considered as a customer of a large bus fleet by absolutely anyone. It is not clear how occasional carriers will find out whether they serve passengers that could be served on a regular service. I believe that it will not be possible, in theory and in practice at all, to establish whether the occasional carriers serve the same passengers as those served in scheduled services. I believe that the concept of "customers of scheduled carriers" can only apply to passengers waiting for buses at a bus station or at a public transport stop. I am sure that the Saeima should not create dead standards that will never work in real life. In any event, the words ‘or could be’ have long been excluded from the Public Transport Services Act. The third problem relates to Article 3.4.1 of the draft law. The present proposal provides that the procedure for the occasional national carriage of passengers is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is a matter of concern that the Cabinet of Ministers, by approving the regulations drawn up by the Ministry of Transport on the procedure for occasional carriage, could create the possibility that this service will simply be destroyed quietly and without the information of the Saeima Members. Even now it is clear from the draft law and from the draft regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers that shareholders of individual bus parks are actively lobbying the big bus park, not the interests of passengers. These proposals are discrimination against small businesses and the grant of monopoly rights to scheduled carriers - bus and coach parks. During the crisis, passenger traffic in the country has decreased, but bus parks sitting on a grant needle not only do not want to reduce their expenses, not only constantly blackmail the government and the Saeima, but also in any way try to push out competitors who have a more flexible and targeted approach to meeting passengers' expectations. The question arises: why is such a proposal being driven again and why do the authors of the draft law not want to support fair competition and the provision of services that satisfy many people of Latvia? Why should public budget resources be spent on the grants of individual carriers? Is the free market the worst enemy of the Ministry of Transport? Despite the fact that, in general, the average cost of services provided by occasional passenger carriers does not usually fall below that of regular carriers, people, however, often choose directly from regions to Riga to reach, for example, the services of occasional carriers. This is an indicator that cannot be denied! I believe that occasional carriers are a net benefit to the public budget, because they are not baffled after grants, they are willing to do work for which super-fine bus parks require separate public pay. Moreover, advocates of the interests of the big bus parks often mix two concepts: ‘non-regular’ and ‘illegal’. Such a claim does not contain any evidence and reasoned legal arguments. This is not based on serious studies, situation analyses and passenger surveys. Companies engaged in occasional passenger transport and carrying out transportation, for example between Latvian cities, unlike illegal carriers, pay taxes, provide jobs for people, they have the relevant licences. Their transport is maintained in technical order and drivers drive vehicles according to the category which gives the right to carry passengers. These operators do not receive subsidies from the State, as is the case with public transport. Interurban scheduled carriers shall organise their work in such a way as not to interfere with public transport. In addition, the carrier offers passengers services that cannot be provided by regular transport, such as the reception of a passenger at home or in another place that is convenient to him in the regions - also in the countryside! - as well as delivery of the passenger to the place he needs, such as Riga. These carriers are also willing to bring people from Riga to another city to their doors with all heavy luggage. Such an offer is very convenient for students, as well as for sick and lonely people. In turn, state-granted carriers offer to live with all heavy luggage to the centre of Riga and to destroy it in the bus station. I would like to remind you that freedom to provide services is a fundamental principle of the European Union's common transport policy, which requires carriers to have access to the transport market. The adoption of amendments will undermine not only the legitimate interests of economic operators, but above all the rights and interests of passengers. It is the right of every person to move freely in their country! I believe that the Saeima should protect the interests of passengers and not the interests of individual bus fleet shareholders. In my opinion, these amendments to the Road Transport Law are contrary to the regulation of the European Union, Latvian legislation and do not meet the interests of passengers. I hope that it will continue to be the passenger's only boss; it will be the passenger who will decide which carrier to use. I invite you to vote against the continuation of the examination of the draft law at the 12th Saeima. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U45	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U46	Dear colleagues, I'll just remind you that we've been working on the Road Transport Act for a long time. As long as we're blaming here, at least three governments and three transport ministers have changed. And for some reason, all three transport ministers have been convinced that, however, the area of occasional services must finally be organised, because this area has left... may be the last of the road transport areas which do not have regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so I am calling for it, however! - quick, quick to scare this bill further and get over once and for all. This is where Mr Agešin mentioned the free market. In road transport... The free market for passenger transport by road in Latvia is not possible because... Look, I don't think that any occasional carrier is going to break passengers, say, on the route Bauska-Skaustkalne or, for example, Liepaja-Embeite. I think that is not the case. There are only economically probably profitable routes in which the free market would like to start working. It is not about these remote areas, where it is quite difficult to get to; indeed, this competition is simply impossible. That's one. Second. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy instructed the Legal Office and the Ministry of Transport to re-examine the text of the regulation, which was mentioned here. For, look, until now, look at which side you want. - this regulation, the European regulation, was, however, limited to international transport. Here we are talking only about our internal transport, Latvia. Well, I hope that the Legal Office will have done enough work and we will have a full picture next time looking at this issue, and perhaps Mr Agešin (as always does) will be able to debate with the Legal Bureau about the subject of the regulation, let us say so. So I call, however, on this draft law to continue to look at and manage once and for all at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U47	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 27, for - 4. Decision adopted. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The parliament was responsible for this by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy? There is therefore no objection. The 12th Saeima will therefore be responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U48	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 11 December 2014.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U49	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the submission of proposals ( From the drug depot. J.Tutins and Dep. V.Ageshin: “And! There is another proposal!’ )... Sorry, please turn on the microphone for Agechin!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U50	Thank you. Deadline for submission of proposals - July 1, 2015. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U51	Thank you. So there are two proposals, and so we must first vote on the next proposal. We will vote for the deadline for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Transport” on 1 July 2015. Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 53, abstaining - 4. No decision has been taken. So there was another proposal that the deadline for the submission of proposals would be 11 December this year. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 11 December of this year. Thank you. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” submitted to the 11th Saeima in accordance with Section 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. Member Jānis Tutins is on behalf of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U52	Dear colleagues, The Commission has assessed the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Municipalities” reviewed in the previous Saeima and has decided to continue viewing this draft law in the 12th Saeima as well. On behalf of the Commission, please support the 12th Saeima revision of the draft law on municipalities.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Local Government”” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The 11th Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Do Members not object that the committee responsible for the 12th Saeima will also be the Commission of State Administration and Local Government? There is no objection. The National Administration and Municipal Commission is also responsible for the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U54	The Commission proposes to submit proposals for second reading by 23 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U55	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 23 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U57	In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U58	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” was discussed at the previous Saeima at first reading. And this opening of the law is dedicated to solving one issue - the elimination of discrepancies between the way the credit operation is counted and the period of accumulation of interest. You can use different time-counting models, but it is clear that for time-counting... both the duration of the operation and the accumulation of its interest must be identical, so that there must be an exact number of days during which the credit operation lasts. Unfortunately, the norm of Section 70 of the current law is unclear, it is interpreted differently and there are a number of strange cases. The norm needs to be specified, it can be done very easily. The Commission considers that it is in a position to eliminate this inaccuracy. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be taken over, and for it to be seen in this Saeima as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for consideration of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. 11.The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Are there any objections from Members that the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission is also responsible for the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U60	The Commission is asking for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 4 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U61	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 4, this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima order roll, the Commission of State Administration and Local Government proposes to continue examining in the 12th Saeima the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U62	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” was adopted at the 11th Saeima in second reading. The essence of the proposed amendments to the version supported by the Saeima at second reading is clarification of the terminology of legal norms, as well as harmonisation of mutual norms with other regulatory acts. The main purpose of the draft law is to distinguish between the remuneration of a Member and the matters governing the relationship between a Member and his employer in the main work. These amendments to the law are intended to harmonise the norms of the status of Member of City Council and Regional Council of the Republic according to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions in order to avoid any misunderstood understanding and application of legal norms regarding the status of Member of the Council and performance of duties. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government reviewed this draft law and decided to support the continuation of its examination in the 12th Saeima. Thus, on behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, I am asking to support the progress of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U63	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that the National Administration and Local Government Commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima? Members agree. The National Administration and Local Government Commission will also be responsible for the draft law in the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U64	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U65	Thank you. There are no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 2 December 2014. Thank you. The National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” submitted to the 11th Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U66	Dear President, Honourable Members! The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government decided to continue in this Saeima, see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations” already adopted by the previous Saeima at second reading. I call on you to support this decision by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U67	Thank you. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Who is there in the law?” ) ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Who is there in the law?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U68	I'll tell you later...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U69	Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The 11th Saeima was responsible for this by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Do Members not object that the National Administration and Municipal Commission will also be responsible for the 12th Saeima? Members agree. The National Administration and Municipal Commission will therefore be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U70	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 22, 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U71	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 22 January 2015. Thank you. According to Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Education, Culture and Science Commission encourages to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law on Institutions and Procedures of Industrial Property at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U72	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science encourages further consideration of the 12th Saeima draft law “Law on institutions and procedures of industrial property”. It was discussed at second reading in the 11th Saeima. The aim of the draft law is to create legal conditions for effective registration of industrial property objects and settlement of related disputes. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Law on Institutions and Procedures of Industrial Property” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The committee responsible in the Saeima was the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Do Members not object that the committee responsible for this draft law will also be the Education, Culture and Science Commission at the 12th Saeima? Members shall not object. The Education, Culture and Science Commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U74	Proposals for second reading are expected by December 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U75	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 19th this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the General Education Law” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U76	Good morning, colleagues! I invite you to take over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education”, which in my opinion provides important support to our young people who want to study abroad, because at the moment the situation is that, unfortunately, most foreign universities do not recognise Latvian central language examinations, which means that young people have to double this foreign language test. The proposed amendments to the law also provide for acceptance of the results of international tests and their alignment with the results of central examinations of foreign languages, as well as delegate to the Cabinet of Ministers the right to determine the list of these international testing institutions and the procedure for assigning these results to young people. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U77	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Are there any objections to Members that the Education, Culture and Science Commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. The Education, Culture and Science Commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U78	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 12 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U79	So the deadline for the second reading is December 12 this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima draft law on the implementation of the Masters' Study Programme for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union in Latvia. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U80	Hello, colleagues! So we are looking at the draft law “On implementation of the Masters' Study Programme for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union in Latvia”. ( The Room Noise. Interdependences from Group Unity, dep. S. Apple and dep. K. Šadurskis: “Please, Latgalian!” ; “Develop respect for Latgale!” ) The Commission has examined this draft law and calls for it to be further examined by the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U81	Thank you. Arvīds Platopers, Member of the European Parliament, came to the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U82	Madam President, very much. Good afternoon, honourable and honourable colleagues! Any University of Latvia initiative to develop joint study programmes with other sufficiently prestigious universities in the European Union countries is supported, because it improves the competitiveness and quality of each university. However, in 2011, amendments were adopted to the University Law providing for recognition of knowledge and skills acquired in previous experiences and non-formal education. They give the right to recognition of the education acquired before joining the study programme, both during the acquisition of any degree and during the intermediate period between degrees, for example, after the acquisition of a Bachelor's degree, to any citizen of Latvia. Thus, the solution to the problems mentioned in the draft law is possible within the existing Law on Higher Education. For recognition of the problem in the context of this Master's study programme, Regulations No.36 of the Cabinet of Ministers of 10 January 2012 “Regulations of Recognition of Results of Studies Achieved in Previous Education or Professional Experience”, issued in accordance with Section 59.2(5) of the Law on Higher Education. The fifth part of Para 14 of the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations states that the results of studies achieved in professional experience can be recognised, first, only in the part of the relevant study programme which consists of practice, and moreover, these study results must be achieved in the field of professional activity which corresponds to the thematic field of study programme education; second, in the study programme course or study module, the learning of which acquires practical knowledge, skills and competence. Thus, the solution would be to amend the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, not to draft a new law, which could create a precedent for the creation of further study programmes that are not in accordance with the Law of the University of Higher Education and the adoption of the laws necessary for their implementation. The first paragraph of Section 2 of the Law on Higher Education states that the Law on Higher Education and its norms apply equally to all higher education institutions and all colleges of Latvia regardless of their founders and source of funding. This means that the adoption of this draft law will require the opening of the Law on Higher Education and the inclusion of an exception for the University of Rezekne for the implementation of this study programme. And if the University Law had to be opened in any case, then it would be more correct, more rational and more useful to incorporate the solution to the problem into the existing law rather than create a new law. In the context of Latvia's security, we need highly qualified border guards, but we will not distort the system with various exceptional laws. It is necessary to work on the arrangement of the existing system by making necessary amendments to the Law on Higher Education and the relevant regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please do not support the prepared draft law, because also in the Commission Legal Bureau already warned about these cases... that the draft law is not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U83	Thank you. In the next debate, Mr Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U84	I just want to remind my fellow Members and also those who do not know that this has been the case for years could even say so. This is our opportunity here in Latvia - and only in Latvia! - in one place, which some people often mention as such a forgotten place of God do not know why or a depressed place, in Rezekne, to educate the highest level border guards from across the European Union. This is an opportunity for us to employ teachers there. It is possible that there will be people who are far more well-off than ours, who will find themselves there and spend money there. But we towed and towed, and every time we invent all kinds of stuff. Somehow there is a house in that higher education, and it must not be broken down by anyone and in any way, at the same time without giving the opportunity to develop such a program with us in Latvia, Latgale and Rezekne. I call for support. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis: “Right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U85	Thank you. Member Kārlis Šadurskis applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U86	Dear colleagues, Generally speaking, Mr Platoper is right: if the implementation of any programme is contrary to the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, then it is necessary to either change the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers or change the programme. I don't think it would be a question of changing the law. On the other hand, however, we have to take into account that the norms of the University College Law are now slightly out of date in the current context of the European open education market. Therefore, we should work hard on both the Higher Education Law and, as I propose, support the transposition of this draft legislative act, because, as Mr. Latkovsky said, the issue is important and therefore, in fact, long tow... So we can simply lose our chance to implement this good programme if this Saeima, too, is working on this legislative act for as long as the previous Saeima did. Therefore, I call for this to be done quickly, qualitatively and also to think about the appropriate amendments to the University College Act in order to increase the opportunities for our education exports and imports. Thank you. ( From a faction, Unity: “Right! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U87	Thank you. Mr Vucans, the next Member in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U88	Madam President, Dear colleagues, In my view, there is only one risk here, and this risk is that it is important for us to recognise these students who have finished their Masters... recognition of their education in the European Union. And there's its usual rule of 200 credits that have to be collected right now. If we correctly incorporate this matter into this draft law, then all the other problems will fall. I have no doubt that we will have to adjust a little bit, however, what has now been presented, but we will try to do this quickly enough in the Commission. It must start work on 1 September next year. That is the agreement with the other members of the international consortium. So the commission is ready to work on it. Of course, I must partly agree with the arguments raised by Mr Platoper. I myself have spoken about these arguments earlier from this troupe. It's not a secret, but in every case right now... more important now are the interests of the state... and in this very geopolitical context in which we are engaged. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U89	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “On the implementation of the Masters' Study Programme for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union in Latvia” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 83, against - 6, refraining from - 1. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that the Education, Culture and Science Commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima? Members agree. The Education, Culture and Science Commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U90	Deadline for submission of proposals - December 12, 2014.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U91	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 12, 2014. According to Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, members of the Education, Culture and Science Commission propose to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U92	Madam President, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is leading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” 12. Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education are essential and urgent in order to continue the ongoing reform of the content of vocational education, which was planned already in 2009, approving the concept of “Improving the attractiveness of vocational education and the participation of the social partners in ensuring the quality of vocational education”. Amendments to the law would contribute to increasing the attractiveness of vocational education and the involvement of employers, strengthen the functions of sectoral expert councils, as well as enable students to obtain a document on general education and professional qualifications. Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education are also necessary because the current Law on Vocational Education does not establish the level of professional qualifications for the levels of the Latvian Qualifications Framework. But at the level of the qualification framework of Latvia, which in turn corresponds to the European qualifications framework, it is necessary to specify all education and evidence of professional qualifications, as follows from the recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a European qualifications framework for lifelong learning. The Law on Vocational Education does not regulate sectoral expert councils, therefore the draft law provides for the addition of the Law on Vocational Education with a new article setting out the establishment of sectoral expert councils and their competence. Sectoral Expert Councils should be ensured in the long term, as they are an institutional mechanism that can ensure cooperation with the labour market and that vocational education and training meets the requirements of the labour market. It is also very important that the draft law provides for the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the procedure in which training based on work environment is organized and implemented. 11. At the second reading of the draft law, the norm of establishing “a collegial advisory institution – a convention aimed at promoting the development of a vocational education institution in accordance with the requirements of the labour market” was supported in the Saeima. The establishment of such an institution at a vocational education institution would facilitate cooperation between vocational education institutions and regional entrepreneurs, as well as the organisation of learning practices and training based on the working environment. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, please support the examination of this draft law at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U93	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vocational Education” (Parliamentary order roll 39p. in order) continuation of the review at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima also has responsibility for the Commission for Education, Culture and Science? Members agree. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is also responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U94	The deadline for submitting proposals is December 19, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U95	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 19, 2014. It's time for a break. And before we stop, we have to register. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Before reading the results of the registration, the name of the notification to the Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U96	Dear colleagues from the Legal Commission. I recall that the Legal Commission will meet at 10.30 a.m. in the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U97	Name in connection with the election of the Demographic Affairs Sub-Committee of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U98	Hello, dear colleagues! The sub-committee on demographic issues will take place at the end of the 106th room on Jēka iela 10/12.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U99	Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U100	Thank you. Dear Members, Today has not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis... is on site, Guntis Belevičs... ( From the drug depot. G.Belēvičs home with his hand: “It’s on the spot!” ), Gaidis Berzins, Inga Bite, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Ivan Klementjevs... And, Dainie Liepiņš... Not applicable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U101	So the break is till 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U102	Honourable Members! Please, take your seats! We will continue the sitting of the Saeima on 27 November. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendment to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U103	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science encourages further consideration of the 12th Saeima draft law “Amendment to Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications”. The draft law is related to Latvia's transition to the so-called "pure instance court", and the nature of the amendment is simple: to replace the words "Riga regional court" throughout the law with the words "Riga city Vidzeme suburban court". As the draft law is related to amendments to the Civil Procedure Law, which enter into force on 1 January next year, please grant it urgency on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U104	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima also has responsibility for the Commission for Education, Culture and Science? There is no objection by Members. The Education, Culture and Science Commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. The Commission has requested that the draft law be declared urgent. Please vote mode! Let us vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and for the session of the Saeima meeting at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U105	The Commission will wait until December 5, and the examination will take place on December 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U106	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 December of this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 11 December of this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Nikiforov, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U107	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science adopted a decision to continue its examination at the 12th Saeima of the draft law on the protection of topographies of semiconductor products submitted to the 11th Saeima. Like the previous draft law, it is related to Latvia's transition to the so-called...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U108	One moment, Mr. Nikiforov! ( Slaughter with a hammer.) Colleagues, please respect the speaker. Silence! Mr. Nikiforov, please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U109	... Latvia's transition to the so-called "pure instance court system". The essence of this draft law is exactly the same - replace the words “Riga regional court” with the words “Riga city Vidzeme suburb court”. The draft law is related to the Civil Procedure Act. Please support the revision of the bill at the 12th Saeima and give it urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U110	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law on the protection of semiconductor topography in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that this commission will also be responsible for the relevant draft law at the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. The 12th Saeima will therefore be responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission has requested that the draft law be declared urgent. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U111	The Commission will wait until December 5, and consideration of the motions at the sitting of the Saeima - December 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U112	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 December of this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 11 December of this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Education, Culture and Science Commission encourages to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima draft law “Amendment to the Patent Law” presented at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Nikiforov, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U113	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science proposes to consider amendments to the Patent Law in the 12th Saeima. Like the two previous draft laws, this one is related to the transition to the so-called "pure instance court" and to the Civil Procedure Law, which will enter into force on 1 January. Therefore, please support its examination at the 12th Saeima and give it urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U114	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Patent Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that this commission is also responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima? Members agree. The 12th Saeima will therefore be responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission has requested that the draft law be declared urgent. So we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Patent Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U115	The Commission will wait until December 5, and consideration of the motions at the sitting of the Saeima - December 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U116	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 December of this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 11 December of this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Education, Culture and Science Commission proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law “Amendment to Designs Law” at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Nikiforov, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U117	The Commission for Education, Culture and Science proposes to continue examining draft law “Amendment to Design Law” in the 12th Saeima. This is the last draft law from the package related to the transition to the so-called "pure instance court" and Civil Procedure law, which will enter into force on 1 January. Consequently, I call for support and urgency to be given to the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U118	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Designs” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that this commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. So the commission responsible will be the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The Commission has requested that the draft law be declared urgent. So we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please vote mode! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Designs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law is declared urgent. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U119	The commission will wait until December 5, the session of the Saeima will be held on December 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U120	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 5 December of this year, and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 11 December of this year. According to Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Education, Culture and Science Commission encourages to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima draft law “Amendments to the Education Law” submitted to the 12th Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U121	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima examined the draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, the examination of which was started already at the 11th Saeima, and decided to encourage the review of this draft law to continue at the 12th Saeima. I would remind you that this draft law stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers is instructed to establish guidelines in educational institutions (except higher education institutions), to lay down rules for the use of Latvian State symbols in educational institutions and to establish measures to be organised for the marking of state holidays in educational institutions (except universities). I invite you to support the reading of the bill at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U122	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Education, Culture and Science Commission was responsible for this draft law. Are there any objections to the fact that this commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is also responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U123	The Commission calls for a deadline of 12 December this year for the submission of proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U124	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 12 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources” submitted to the 11th Saeima at the 12th Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U125	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Means. Due to the outbreak of African swine fever in the territory of Latvia on 2 July 2014, the Cabinet of Ministers order “On Promulgation of the Emergency” was adopted aimed at effectively combating African swine fever. The order not only declared the emergency situation in a number of municipalities and municipalities of Latvia, but obliges the users of hunting rights to reduce the density of the wild boar population by hunting. Following the recommendations of the Food and Veterinary Service and the State Forest Service, users of hunting rights should reduce the number of wild boars from about 70 thousand to 10 thousand individuals, as this number of animals practically stops the spread of infection naturally, passing it from the animal to the animal. This also reduces the risk to the pig and meat processing industry. The third paragraph of Article 10 of the Law on Public Administration Structures provides: ‘The public administration shall act in the public interest. The public interest shall also include proportionate respect for the rights and legitimate interests of the individual.’ By imposing additional obligations on hunters to increase the number of wild boars, the State must create conditions and support to enable individuals who are hunters to comply with this requirement effectively and quickly. Noise silencers reduce the noise level of a shot by 30-40 percent, and by shooting firearms equipped with silencers do not disrupt other wild boars in the hunting area, thus reducing the possibilities for movements and migration of wild boars and minimising the risk of spreading infection. This is in line with the recommendations of the European Commission on the control of African swine fever. In addition, the shooting of firearms equipped with silencers is less likely to interfere with the surrounding population and other people who rest, berry and mushrooms; minimally, livestock and other animals are frightened, and their road movements are reduced, thereby reducing the risk of accidents. The impact on the health of the hunter is also important in reducing the health effects of shot noise. Noise silencers are widely used in hunting in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Great Britain and Denmark. Experience from Scandinavian countries confirms the positive effect of the use of silencers in hunting, reducing the interfering noise factor for the rest of the population, which is not involved in hunting. The widespread use of silencers in Scandinavian countries has not created additional threats to public safety, therefore on behalf of the Commission, I invite you to support the continuation of the examination of the bill at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - 5, for - 6. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. In the Saeima, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law. Are there any objections to the fact that this commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima? There is no objection. The committee responsible for the 12th Saeima is therefore the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U127	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals would be 15 January 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U128	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 15 January 2015. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Order Roll, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U129	Dear President, colleagues. We see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service”. At the beginning of the economic crisis one of the ways of reducing expenditure was to reduce the functions of the State Probation Service, therefore, as of 1 July 2009, the State Probation Service no longer fulfils the post-penitarian function of providing assistance to people who are released from prison after the execution of all or part of the sentence. Such assistance will play an important role in enabling these people to return successfully to society. According to statistics, approximately 3 000 people are released from prisons every year in Latvia, 750 of them are relatively exempted persons, who, according to the law, become clients of the State Probation Service. The rest - more than 2,000 people - remain in their own hands. No one is responsible for their social rehabilitation and resocialisation. As a result, almost 90 percent of them, unfortunately return to prison within ten years of their release. In this context, the state must welcome the efforts of non-governmental organisations providing assistance to those who have returned from prisons, as well as the search for cooperation, which is clearly in the public interest. In order to provide the legal basis for such cooperation, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption proposes amendments to the Law of the State Probation Service, which was opened at the 11th Saeima. Under the amendments, the law would be supplemented by a new article "Cooperation with representatives of the public on the integration of sentenced persons into society" as well as amendments to a few other articles. The amendments would allow for the introduction from 2016 of national co-financing for re-socialisation centres established by public organisations. I will draw your attention to the fact that such co-financing for the maintenance of one person would be almost twice as small as the maintenance of one prisoner in prison. Having said that, on behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I call on you to support the continuation of the legislative process at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U130	Thank you. Member Kārlis Sergeant applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U131	Hello, colleagues! I'd like to make a little tour in history. About seven to eight years ago, when “thresholds ” broke in Latvia, there were about ten rehabilitation centres for prisoners, where people could live three to six months after being released from prison, learn a profession, adapt to life, and find a place of residence. And indeed, the relapsing of these people, or return to prison, was reduced to a small extent... below 20 per cent. Currently, such a center is no longer just one in Latvia. Moreover, the ten centers that I mentioned were financed by the state. Currently, this center, which is right here in Babite County, is fighting for itself, as it can, and attracts sponsor money, and there are regularly about 30 prisoners there. Of course, this draft law is to be supported, but we must keep track of not getting back to this "thir years" situation, where this rehabilitation of prisoners was not, let's say, an ideal, not something that worked for the purpose, but... It was also quite a good business, because these centres belonged practically to some people, and these people also earned considerable sums of money at the expense of the state, of course, and these funds were not always used optimally. So that we support this draft law, however, let us also try to keep this happening in the best interests of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U132	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Public Probation Service” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. In the Saeima, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law. Do Members have no objection that in the 12th Saeima this commission is also responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is therefore responsible for the draft law. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U133	Deadline for the second reading of the proposals - 30 January 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U134	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 January 2015. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” submitted to the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U135	Hello! President-in-Office of the Saeima, very respectable. Colleagues! So the issue is about amendments to the Military Service Law, and above all it is about the New Guard. A little historical picture. In 2007 we moved from compulsory military service to professional service. This also led to the creation and strengthening of the New Guard, which, of course, suffered as a result of the financial crisis in 2008 - out of almost 10 000 participants, its number fell to almost 4 000. Now, according to this year's data, we have about 6900. The amendments to the law are also related to training of soldiers, social guarantees and length of service. And, of course, the changes will also have a major impact on training young people. In the future, the Recruitment and New Guard Centre, which is the main institution responsible for the development of the New Guard, will conclude a contract with the legal representative of the child or with a young person who has reached the age of 18 at the beginning of the school year. The new guard will be able to issue an inventory and uniform. The changes also provide that young workers will be able to receive paid healthcare in the future. The Commission believes that the state must take care of the health of young people, since the practical training takes place mainly outdoors and under different weather conditions, and the most active period is the spring and summer, and, as we know, summer is the period of tick activity. The arrangements for receiving a new guard's inventory, uniform and paid health care will have to be defined by the government, and the arrangements for receiving paid health care will have to be set by the government by the end of this year. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I call on colleagues to support the continuation of the legislative process at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U136	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Military Service Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. In the Saeima, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law. Are Members not opposed to the Commission being responsible for this draft law also in the 12th Saeima? Members agree. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption will therefore be responsible for the draft law. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U137	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 8 December 2014.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U138	So the deadline for submitting proposals is 8 December this year. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption encourages to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U139	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Since the entry into force of the law on 1 May 2011, the implementation of the requirements included therein has contributed significantly to improving the overall situation of cyber security in state and municipal institutions. However, the state of cyber security remains relatively low in public administration. Therefore, the draft law provides for the incorporation of amendments to the Information Technology Security Law, which would oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to develop uniform minimum rules for cyber security requirements in state and municipal institutions and to include both general security and technical requirements in the law. The need for such amendments to the Information Technology Security Act is determined by the fact that there is currently no regulation setting common standards for national and local authorities in the field of cyber security. As a result, the level of security in national and municipal information systems varies greatly. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the continuation of the legislative process at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U140	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Information Technology Security” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. In the Saeima, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will be responsible for the draft law in question? There is no objection. So the 12th Saeima is responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U141	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 8 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U142	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 8 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Law on Judicial Experts” submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U143	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Law on Judicial Experts” shall be considered in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. The 9th Saeima started working on this matter. Unfortunately, the project was not supported and was transferred to recycling. The work on it was then continued by the 11th Saeima, and now there is also an opportunity to work on the 12th Saeima. The draft law provides for special regulation regarding the activities of court and judicial psychiatry experts, as well as special regulation regarding disciplinary responsibility and several other issues. Well, given that it has been a long time for the draft law, I really think that the Legal Commission will be able to complete the work successfully. Please support the continuation of the work with this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U144	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Law of Judicial Experts” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima too, the Legal Commission will be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection. The Legal Commission is also responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U145	January 15, following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U146	The deadline for submitting proposals is therefore 15 January 2015. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". The next item on the agenda is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U147	Colleagues! We work with amendments to law “On privatisation of state and municipal property objects” at second reading. One proposal has been received by the Commission, which is from the Legal Office of the Saeima and which adjusts Article 53 (on property and liabilities of the privatisation object). This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U149	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined and, given that it is an urgent draft law, I call on Members to vote in favour of its adoption at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U150	Please call me! We will vote for the approval of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law in the second, final, reading is adopted. The next item is the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andris Buiķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U151	President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is about the specific nature of service duties of officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior with special service grades, for which total working time is determined. The nature of the matter is as follows: the total working time can mean that in the week when a person demands... disease requires leave... It may be that he has to work less... The law therefore incorporates the fact that not less than 75 per cent of the average earnings for the second and third days of temporary incapacity for work and not less than 80 per cent, i.e. four fifths, of the average salary... That is the essence of this bill! The Commission unanimously supported this draft law. I ask the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U152	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law was adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U153	Deadline for submission of proposals - December 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U154	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is December 5 this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U155	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs examined and conceptually supported the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”. The amendment applicant is the Government of the Republic of Latvia, but developed it by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the nature is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from its internal reserves without requiring additional funds from the budget, would provide social security for the spouses of the diplomatic corps employees in such a way that, when they return to perform diplomatic functions abroad, they would have access to social insurance in all possible extent in the Republic of Latvia. Thus, the spouses of diplomats could receive unemployment benefits and other social guarantees. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this would be about one and a half thousand euros a year in the coming years. The Social and Labour Commission therefore considered this draft law to be socially fair and fiscally correct and called for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U156	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has therefore been approved at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U157	5 December 2014.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U158	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is December 5 this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U159	Dear colleagues, This draft law is designed to reduce the impact of Russian sanctions on the Latvian international road transport sector, and it provides for an exemption from the payment of vehicle operating tax on goods vehicles with a total mass of more than 12 thousand kilograms. This exemption would apply once during 2015 or 2016 and would allow the industry to save around €600,000. And I call on the Commission to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U160	Thank you. Member Igor Pimenov applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U161	Dear Members, honourable Members, The intention of the draft law is definitely good - to reduce the impact of sanctions of the Russian Federation on the Latvian international road transport sector by providing for exemptions from vehicle operating tax on heavy goods vehicles. Let us remember that the tax burden on road transport operators consists of three components: therefore, the vehicle operating tax itself, in addition to the road user tax and the excise tax on fuel. And now one component is removed from this structure to lighten this burden. In view of the fact that the majority of the tax burden on Latvian road hauliers consists of road user charges, the draft law temporarily exempts directly from the smallest part of that burden, i.e. from the payment of the vehicle operating tax on goods vehicles for which the road user charge is due. However, with good intent, the draft law puts road hauliers in an unequal position because it favours road hauliers with a weight of more than 12 000 kilograms and those who have paid a one-year toll. However, there are few road hauliers on the market who are also under sanctions, but their vehicles have a full mass of up to 12 thousand kilograms or they cannot afford to pay a toll for one year because they use their machines less frequently and pay a levy at a weekly or daily rate. So the bill... draft provisions favour competition between large road hauliers, who often use heavy stores, and do not give rise to higher competition between start-ups. In my opinion, this is not fair; it distorts the market. I think it is necessary to table amendments to the second reading that would make this inequality even more smooth. I do not object if such “unequal” support (in feet) would be provided to those giants of sectors or sectors that determine Latvia’s export capacity or provide a serious breakthrough in economic development - it is also done in other Member States of the European Union. But here it is a small and medium-sized businessman, so here competition must be balanced to help at least those who want to start their own business in the area of transit business to make the first deals. This draft law does not create favourable conditions for such beginners, and I think that this draft law can therefore be improved. But, in general, the draft law is a step in the right direction, and it must be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U162	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on vehicle operation tax and company light vehicle tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against - 4, it's not. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U163	Colleagues! Due to the fact that we still have to wait for the opinion of the European Commission in the course of the draft law, the deadline for proposals is slightly longer: the Commission proposes setting the deadline on 1 February 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U164	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 February 2015. Thank you. The next item is "Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U165	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax”” in order to harmonise the norms of the law “On Corporate Income Tax” with the new state aid regulation – Regulation of the European Commission of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market by applying Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty to aid for initial investment. And given that, on 30 June of this year, under the State aid rules, the conditions for granting aid to initial long-term investments are changed, the amendments are necessary so that after that date taxpayers can obtain a corporate tax credit for initial long-term investments made in assisted investment projects. There is also a need for certain editorial clarifications concerning the tax incentives for R & D that entrepreneurs have commissioned for scientific institutions. On behalf of the Commission, I ask for the urgent status of the draft law, because it is necessary to put these rules into practice as soon as possible so that our entrepreneurs can apply for these tax concessions. And please also support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U166	Thank you. The commission has therefore asked for the draft law to be declared urgent. The urgency must be put to the vote first. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law was approved at first reading. Please set the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time for the second reading at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U167	Time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading - 2 December, second reading in the Saeima - 4 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U168	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 December of this year and the consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 4 December of this year. The next item is the draft law “On the recognition of the Law “On the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum” which has become obsolete”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U169	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the recognition of the Law “On the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum” as null and void” and has supported the examination in the Saeima at first reading. The Legal Commission has also heard a representative of the society “Public Council of the People’s Front Museum” - our colleague Mr. The representative has informed that the Society has taken the initiative of the Ministry of Culture to take over this museum building in state ownership, because the Society does not currently have the necessary resources to maintain this real estate accordingly. The Society has also addressed the Ministry of Culture with an initiative to take over all museum’s own values. This is not, however, an issue that is related to this draft law, but it is also very important, in our view, that the exposition of the People's Front Museum should be maintained in the future. And at the moment, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U170	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the recognition of the Law “On the Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U171	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U172	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 2 December this year. The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the exchange of names and nationalities. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U173	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” and unanimously decided to support its examination in the Saeima at first reading. And a little bit about the purpose and nature of this bill. By informing you, I would like to say that since 1 January 2013, there is a new framework for recognition of a person with limited capacity, but in a number of other laws there has not yet been alignment. This law also provides for persons who are not legally incapable in Latvia. Thus, we have to align this Law on the exchange of name, surname and nationality with the existing procedure as it is in the Civil Law, the Civil Procedure Law, in accordance with the judgement of the Constitutional Court, which recognised that the procedure on full recognition of a person as incapable of action does not comply with either the Satversme or the international obligations of Latvia. I therefore call on you, on behalf of the Legal Commission, to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U174	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has therefore been approved. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U175	The Legal Commission proposes a deadline of five days, i.e. 2 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U176	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 2 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U178	The next item is the draft law on the Freedom Monument and the Riga Brothers Cemetery Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U179	Highly honored Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The draft law was created with the aim of ensuring the preservation of the Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery by establishing their legal status, cultural and historical value and establishing monitoring councils for quality preservation. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined this draft law and calls for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U180	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on Freedom Monument and Riga Brothers Cemetery”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U181	Deadline for submission of proposals - December 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U182	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 19 December this year. And now we are on the agenda - 'Handing on draft decisions'. On the agenda is the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014”. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U183	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima has accepted the reallocation of appropriations to support milk producers who have suffered economic sanctions from Russia against our country. The financial support is intended to cover ‘the payment of breeding payments for the evaluation of livestock productivity data of dairy breeds’. The redistributable amount is €7.99 million, which we obtain from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development - 4.99 million and 3 million respectively (from the Public Debt Management sub-programme and projects under the Emission Trading Instrument). As I said, the Commission has supported this proposal. I ask the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U184	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2014””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, a decision has been taken. Thank you. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the parliamentary hearing scheduled for 27 November this year, so today at 5 p.m. Annijs Matīss, the Minister of Transport of Member Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Lochmeles-Lunova, Tretyaka and Pimenova, “On the implementation of Rail Baltica project” received a written answer, but the questions are not satisfied with the written answer received. The Minister in charge cannot come today, so the oral response is postponed to the following week. On the question of Member Zariņa, Urbanoviča, Ribakova, Potapkina and Agešina, Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the real acquirers of state-owned “Citadeles” shares”. This question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The applicants are not satisfied with the written reply received. The Minister responsible cannot be present today, so that the oral response is postponed to the following week. I have thus informed you that the question-and-answer meeting scheduled for today will not take place. However, there have been six more... even more - seven new questions for ministers. ( From the drug depot. V.Ageshin: “For the farmers!” ) Thus Members Agešin, Elksniņš, Urbanovičs, Zemļinskis and Potapkins have asked Members about the implementation of the task assigned to the Cabinet of Ministers. It is forwarded to President-in-Office of the Republic of Lithuania Laimdota Straujuma... It is addressed to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma. Consequently, we refer the question to the addressee for a reply. Several members - Zarina, Agešina, Elksniņa, Ivana Klementyeva and Pimenova - have also been asked about the welfare requirements of fur animals by the Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs. We pass it on to the responsible minister. The question of Member Pimenova, Urbanoviča, Mirska, Cileviča and others addressed to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma has also been received: “On possible conclusion of an option agreement between the Government of Latvia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on the sale to the Government of Latvia of shares in EBRD-owned Citadele banka and Reverta. We give this question to the addressee, but the Member, Igors Pimenov, has applied to read the motivation. I would remind you that time to give motivation is one minute. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U185	Thank you. Colleagues! Following a report published on www.bloomberg.com on 10 July, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) concluded an option agreement with the Latvian Privatisation Agency, which gives the bank the right to sell its shares in Citadele banka and the public limited liability company Reverta. This means that if the option agreement had indeed been concluded, the sale of Parex banka to EBRD was not, in fact, a sale, but could be regarded as a borrowing from the EBRD of Latvia, and therefore the takeover of Parex banka was even more difficult for the taxpayers of Latvia than it was thought to have been. We want to know whether such an option agreement was actually concluded. And if the government buys back the shares of Citadele banka owned by EBRD, will they remain State-owned or be sold? And if they are sold, who will be their potential buyers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U186	Thank you. I informed you that the question was also submitted by Members Pimenov, Potapkin, Mirskis, Cilevičs and others, which is addressed to Minister of Defence Raimonds Vējonis, “On the state of health of Latvian soldiers”. So we also hand it over to the response. The question by Members was also submitted by Elksniņš, Tretjaka, Stepanenko, Zemlinskis and Lochmele-Lunova, President of the Bank of Latvia Ilmars Rimšēvičs “On the closure of the Daugavpils branch of the Bank of Latvia”. We also hand it over to the response. The question asked by Members by Elksniņš, Stepanenko, Nikiforov, Ivan Klementjev and Ivanova-Jevsejeva “On the pay of medical staff and the provision of medical services” has also been received. The question is addressed to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, and we give it to the answer. The question asked by Members by Elksniņš, Urbanovičs, Orlovs, Potapkins and Raimonds Rubiks, which is addressed to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, “On funding for the Library of the blind in Latvia”, has also been received. We also hand it over to the response. Consequently, all the items on the agenda have been dealt with and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Thank you. Please get the result! Before reading the results of the registration, colleagues, I have to say that Inguna Silverba recently celebrated a very beautiful anniversary. And we greet him in a beautiful round anniversary! ( The Hall is full of hands.) It is also today's very beautiful anniversary that our colleague Ilze Viņķele celebrates. Welcome, too. (Applause) Name for the statement to Member Ilze Viņķelis. ( Hall laughter, intermediate shouting: “On the restaurant! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U187	Thanks for the flowers! The ball will be 45 years old, so we have to wait. But I asked the sports sub-committee to meet for the first sub-committee meeting in the premises of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science in 15 minutes' time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U188	Name of the Saeima Secretary Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U189	Good afternoon, honourable Members! We are continuing to work on the decisions we made today - on the committees of inquiry. At 12.20 a.m., the first meeting will be held by an investigative commission dealing with the Zolitūde tragedy. I ask all the Members who have been elected there to meet at 12.20 in the Red House. The Second Investigation Commission, which will conduct the inspection of Citadele’s sales process, will gather at 12:50 in the Red Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U190	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U191	Thank you. Dear Members, please respond! Not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Inga Bite, Gundars Dauge, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Dainis Liepiņš, Kārlis Šadurskis. K. Šadurskis: “Yes!” ), Ilze Viņķele... Ilze Viņķele is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-27-PT12-274-U192	Thank you. So I closed today's sitting.
