ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-18-PT12-272-U1	Hello, honourable Members! The official sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 96th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, I declare it open.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-18-PT12-272-U2	Name to address President Ināra Mūrniece of the 12th Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-18-PT12-272-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! November is our country's fate. Each year we commemorate our heroes – Latvian independence fighters. Thank you for celebrating the anniversary of our country's establishment. In November it is already customary that we think more often and deeper about our country, we appreciate and look back on what has been done for its benefit. This year we have talked and discussed more about the nature of Latvia than we have taken together over the last ten years. It was in 2014 that Latvian society experienced significant changes as a result of internal movements and external events. This has affected both self-esteem and attitude towards our past and country, so this year can be called the year of turn. This is the first national proclamation festival that we celebrate after the continuity of the State has become more visible in the Constitution, the deeper fundamentals of Latvia and the purpose of its existence are revealed, and the aims of Latvia's existence are clearly mentioned. The Constitution states: “The Latvian state proclaimed on November 18th, 1918 has been established, bringing together the historical lands of Latvia and based on the irreparable desire of the Latvian nation and its inalienable right of self-determination, in order to guarantee the existence and development of the Latvian nation, its language and culture throughout the centuries, to ensure the freedom of the Latvian people and everyone and to promote prosperity.” End of quote. The statehood of Latvia and the Constitution are interrelated, and the Constitution is derived from statehood. The updated Constitution gives guidance to our statehood. The number of Latvians in Latvia exceeds 62 percent, and their share is increasing. However, the proportion between nationality and minorities is not a question of mathematics. Latvia, like most European countries, has been created as a national country. The national identity of the state creates the cultural content and form of the state. A state can exist as long as the people want it to exist, in other words, as long as there is a strong desire for its state. It is a political choice – to exist as a nation with its own language, culture, historical memory and want to want its own national state. With this strong will, we, as a society united by Latvia, have become stronger, more cohesive, more similar to the events of the past and a stronger foundation under its feet. Although the flaming armed and ideological conflict has put our land under threat, we look to the future with greater faith and self - control. For more difficult times, if they come, we are ready, because we know – keeping our stars bright, we will survive through them as well. During the formation of the Latvian state Kārlis Slāne “In the Small Notes” wrote: “The nation has already loved Latvia. Anyone who wants to root her will receive a earned hatred and despise.” Laundry also addressed the Latvians, asking: “Do you not see in these days that some other concerns that you hold with your heart come closer to your personal care? These are Latvia's concerns. It's time to blame your hearts for Latvia. You are the same as citizens and patriots. If you don't see yourself, your life has expanded. Latvia has become part of your life, about the content of your life. Latvia is a job and a fight.” I'm going to say that we've had a similar situation almost a century later. And it is no coincidence that Latvians as a state and Latvian minorities increasingly appreciate the role and role of the state in their own and society's life. From history we know what can be done with a whole nation when a country is brutally destroyed and it is no longer able to protect its citizens. On the other hand, we can grow and improve within the framework of a democratic state. The fundamental values of the nation are always rooted in historical experience. It is obvious that the moods and currents of patriotism are accepted in Latvia, we are recovering our self-esteem and self-esteem. When we show our belonging to our land and people, to the common memory of our nation, we often feel particularly moved. We experienced it on Lāčplēsis Day at the Freedom Monument and at the Daugava in Riga and elsewhere in Latvia, where large and small, old and young honored state defenders, lighting candles. Perhaps today's young generation, who grew up in the restored democratic Latvia, singing the national anthem or breaking the red-white flag, no longer climbs the ball of excitement in the neck, tears in the eyes. Their feelings towards the country of Latvia are more balanced, their attitudes are more rational than their parents and grandparents. And that must be it! This is a sign of the vitality of the nation, because this generation, in the words of the writer Dzintars Sodum, is “educated for its country” and gives its attachment to Latvia’s present and future. Patriotism, love for your country creates knowledge and culture. Each of us lives in the culture of our people, enriching from other cultures. A nation’s perfect life without culture is unimaginable. Kārlis Slāne reminded the participants of the Constitutional Meeting that Latvian state content is nothing other than national culture, whose external form is the country: “Where there is no national culture, there is no nation, there can not be a country. That is why this issue is extremely important." Laundry would have said so today. By investing in culture, we invest in the existence of our nations, in our lines of stability and protection. It must also be reflected in cultural funding. Let's show our country's language – Latvian – the right place for it in everyday life, not only in the events of the parade. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree – almost a quarter of the century after the restoration of independence, the speeches and interviews of state officials and officials in the Latvian media must finally be in one language – Latvian. It is a matter of national self-esteem. The language is not just a means of communication, it includes a contentful cultural message and historical baggage. The state language, the language of democratic participation, is common to all citizens of the country, whatever language we speak, whether in our home, family or circle of friends. The events of the Riga European Capital of Culture programme enrich us all year round. During the summer, a grand world choir Olympics took place. We were pleased to discover the new building of the Latvian National Library. Architect Gunārs Birkerts has lived the image of the Latvian spiritual Light Palace of the poet and public worker Auseklis. It can be seen not only on the shore of the Daugava in Riga, but also on the pages of the world's most outstanding architectural journals. Next year, when Latvia is assuming the Presidency of the European Union, the Light Palace, a symbol of the spiritual heritage and potential of Latvia, will come to light in all the member states of the European Union. Once again, Latvia will have the opportunity to show itself in all glory as a major cultural and foreign policy power. During the Presidency, the Latvian Parliament will have the first opportunity to influence the content of the European Union agenda. It will be an opportunity to guide us on important issues at European level, such as issues about the energy independence of Latvia and Europe and strong common foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia is also a major country for sport. In the winter and summer Olympics, the number of medals we received is among the world's leading countries, as opposed to the country's population. Progress has shown that we are a talented society. Every day, we do not always recognize the perseverance and effort of culture, education, science, and sport in which excellence is being tortured. In many areas, our talents and tryners have to rely on their own strength. However, they share success with their country and their people by reaching the highest levels. It is the time to say “Thanks” to them! Latvia became a country only when, at the most difficult moment, Latvia found a strong source of Latvian force itself, when it no longer looked around for a foreign assistant, but created its own national army. Today's world has changed fundamentally. Only those cooperating can exist. This is symbolically demonstrated by the united power of the Baltic Way, the importance of which we have also updated this year. Latvia is a reliable member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, and the soldiers of the National Armed Forces represent us in international missions, strengthening also the security of Latvia. Our homeland's defense gene has never been lost anywhere. This is demonstrated by the influx of forces in the Earthguard queues. NATO's meeting in Wales gave evidence that we made the right geopolitical choices 10 years ago. However, like a century ago, Latvia is protected by our belief that it must be free and independent. This is particularly important today, when certain forces are trying to imagine Latvia as a weak, failed country, provocatively asking: is that not necessary today? In Latvia's daily lives, we can learn from all those who have argued for Latvia's independence at different times, including those who are among us. Of such personalities as three times as Lidija Lasmane-Doronina, which has been oppressed against the occupation power. Thank them for their contribution to restoring Latvia's statehood! Never has anyone been able to deprive Latvians of Latvia that existed in hearts, dreams and thoughts. However, in reality, we need to be more clearly aware of ourselves and make others aware that democracy has a duty to protect itself when its borders are broken. A democratic state is not and must not be helpless or cowardly, and it is its duty to ensure that the fundamentals of Latvia are not threatened or ruined. Our protection lines also need to be strong in practice. The security situation in Europe has changed considerably. In Ukraine there is a fight not only about the indivisibility of the country and its economic impact, but also about its chosen direction of development – where the eastern border of the contemporary European cultural space will be set. This is understood by our closest neighbours and colleagues in Estonia, Finland, Lithuania and Poland; it is understood in Western Europe and elsewhere in the world. Ukrainians also defend our independence, and Latvia has a duty to support them. In Latvia, emphasis has been shifted from the “soft power” events to an open, massive information war. It has been implemented on a targeted and systematic basis for several years to weaken our spirit and the will of the state. Vaclav Havel, a playwright and later the President of the Czech Republic, one of Europe’s moral powers, said: “If we see conflicts of interest in today’s world, most often they are not just economic conflicts or conflicts of interest in power, but, above all, conflicts of ideologies or doctrines.” In the war on human minds and hearts, we must be able to face the spiritual pressure of an attacker. How? First, when each critically assessing the information shown in the public space, second, the state must strengthen its policy of protection and development of the information space in Latvia. Skilled coordinated and effective national action is no longer needed. The fundamental human law and the sense of life are crucial in all circumstances. Only free and educated people form a confident nation. The experience of democracy in the 20th century has been limited but rich enough to have a significant heritage for Latvia. We celebrated the 155th anniversary of September for our country's fundamental democratic founder and first President Janis Chakste. The authority of Chakste during his life was so great that he represented independent Latvia in the memory of the people during the long years of the state denial. The chakste’s ability to reconcile idealism with real policy is characterised by two words: “No particular group interests can be, but only general interests. The country of Latvia stands above everything.” And the other: “Right will always prevail.” Čakste's personality and role in the history of Latvia's state must be highlighted more clearly in the public space in future. The democratic criteria of fairness and proportionality, which were so clear to him, must also be implemented by the society today – we need and need. This year, the Saeima granted the status of a state holiday to the Songs, and for the first time the Song and Dance Festival will be celebrated as a national holiday in the year of the centenary of Latvia – in 2018. Perhaps Jānis Čakste, just like the Song Festival, can become one of the signs of the upcoming centenary? Looking back at our country, nation and country in the past, making the contours of the history of the country more visible, we look at tomorrow – what we want to see Latvia at its 100th anniversary and what we want to be. Work on national centenary cultural events has already started, opening the way for new ideas, opportunities and success. These great cultural pearls will be able to be put together in a crown and a noble with self - respect. At the same time, we have to find a solution to reduce the differences in the standard of living of Latvian citizens, so that Latvia does not have to have a glorious cultural crown through the visions, but has to have appropriate shoes on its feet. Social inequality, which has reached critical scale, must be significantly reduced until the centenary of Latvia. Poverty is a matter of state security because it threatens democracy and poses risks to the state of Latvia itself. In the coming years, it must be possible to fully assess and overcome the consequences of the totalitarian Communist regime in a targeted and structured way. The independent democratic state of Latvia must be strictly distinguished from the system and morals of the Soviet occupation. We also need to clear our senses, our thinking, and our perception of the world. The state must be able to ease its conscience and settle its bills with those who want to do so in the past. This step cannot be late! Contrary to the experience of violent past, where human life and respect were not held to any value, in Latvia a person should be considered the main value. First of all, man, not economic plans, must be a measure of everything. This will be done not only between friends and relatives but also by mutual respect and favor in relation to strangers. This is far from obvious at the moment in our society. Such Latvia would also be more attractive to the part of our people who live elsewhere in the world, because living places for contemporary Latvians can be many, but homes – however, only one. Dear people! The country of Latvia is born at the time when the calendar year is approaching its end. The grey November we have been able to fill, with candle flames, the charm of fire and the shocking wonders of light in the streets of the capital. In general, we express patriotism and love for our country. Like other European countries, we can also say: Latvia is doing well today! But that's not enough. Indeed, Latvia will be good if it is good for all its people. We are all Latvia with our longs, hopes and strength. The life of the sun for Latvia! Welcome to our country's 96th birthday! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.) (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-18-PT12-272-U4	Thus, I declare the official sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 96th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia closed. I invite all those present to continue the festival together in the Red Hall, raising a glass of champagne!
