ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Please, take your seats! Let's start the 4th December session of the Saeima! Before starting to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments should be examined. The Bureau has received 17 amendments to the agenda of today's meeting. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision on the removal of Solvitas Glaudane from the position of a judge of Jurmala city court to be included on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Colleagues, please stop the negotiations! There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft decision “On granting the title of an honorary judge to Gunaras Aigars” be included on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On Granting the Name of the Honorary Judge to Astrid Herta Berzins”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law” to be included on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( From the SC Group: ‘ Yes! ’ ) There are objections. We must therefore vote on this issue. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Solvency” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 20, no. So the decision has been made. The draft law is on the agenda. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface from the SC Group: ‘ Yes! ’ ) (a.k.a. So Members have reservations. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote for inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on the agenda of today’s sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. Draft legislation is on the agenda. The Cabinet of Ministers asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda “On the participation of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Afghanistan”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for the draft decision on the approval of the members of the Central Land Commission to be on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Jurs Vectirāns as Chairman of the Central Land Commission” to be on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Edgars Putra, Jānis Trupovnieks, Augusts Brigmanis, Ingmārs Līdaka, Armands Krauze and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal from the Parliamentary Commission of the Republic of Latvia of the Parliamentary Member Edgars Putra from the Parliamentary Investigation on the direction of the sale process of 75% of the state-owned “Citadele” bank’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale price and the time limit for resale, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Valters Dambe, Augusts Brigmanis, Ingmārs Līdaka, Armands Krauze, Jānis Kžads and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the election of the Parliamentary Member of the Republic of Latvia Walter Dambe to the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the progress of the sale process of 75% of the state-owned “Citadele” bank’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale price and the time limit for resale, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for the draft decision “On the temporary authorisation of the parliamentary powers of Gunāra Rusiņa 12.” to be included on the agenda. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the law “On Latvian State coat of arms””. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Member Gaidis Berzins has submitted a statement on the withdrawal of his signature for the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” (No 70/Lp12). Thus there is insufficient number of signatures of Members for further progress of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” and the draft law should be excluded from the agenda of today’s sitting. The agenda has therefore also been amended on this issue. Members Gaidis Berzins, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Laizāne, Imants Krādnieks, Romanas Maudiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Jānis Dombrava from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Laizāne, Imants Krādnieks and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On approval of Inese Laizāne as the Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Member Edvins Šnores from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision on the election of Member Edvins Šnores to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. So we start to look at the amended agenda. On the agenda, draft decision on the temporary confirmation of the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima of Gunāra Rusiņa. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U2	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Board of the Saeima’s Mandates, Ethics and Applications has received an application from the 12th Saeima Member Raivys Dzintars regarding the imposition of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate for the period of parental leave (in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 5 of the Saeima’s Rules of Procedure roll). The Commission has received the National Association “All for Latvia!” - Gata Sprūda, the candidate for the post of Member elected to “Fatherland and Freedom/LNNK” in the Vidzeme electoral district, refused to join the Saeima and the next candidate Gunārs Rusiņš consent to accept the mandate of Member of the 12th Saeima. The Commission has prepared and asked to support the draft decision of the Saeima “On the temporary authorisation of the 12th Saeima Member”, while from the National Association “All for Latvia!” - Raivis Dzintars, an elected member of the list of the Vidzeme Electoral Region, has appointed a Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U3	Thank you. I call on Gunārs Rusiņš to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U4	When I, Gunārs Rusiņš, assume the office of Member of the Saeima, solemnly promises to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U5	Thank you. I call for the solemn promise to be signed. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the temporary authorisation of the 12th Saeima Member of Gunāra Rusiņa! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. I congratulate Gunārs Rusiņa and invite you to take a place in Saeima's meeting room! ( The Hall is full of hands.) Let us start by looking at the next section of the agenda: "The Bureau's reports on the draft laws presented". The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” presented to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs by Mr. Ivans Ribakova, Andrejs Elksniņa and Sergejs Potapakins should be passed on to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U6	Good morning, dear colleagues! According to the law “On Festival, Remembrance and Markable Days” Christmas in Latvia is defined as holidays on 24, 25 and 26 December, however, Christmas, which Orthodox and old-believers celebrate on January 7, unfortunately, is not defined as a holiday in this law. The Orthodox Church in Latvia is considered a traditional confederation. Historically, there are also large numbers of elderly believers living in our country. Despite the fact that the total number of Orthodox and Old-believers in Latvia is around 400 thousand, there are currently limited opportunities for these people to celebrate their Christmas Day, as opposed to other Christians who are granted official holidays. The Group therefore calls for an amendment to Article 1 of the Law “On Celebration, Remembrance and Celebration Days” and for the status of the Day of the Birth of Christ to be granted also on January 7. This proposal comes from society, and representatives of various denominations are convinced that the highest goal of the Saeima's Member is the spiritual well-being of every human being, resulting from God's blessed work and mutual human dignity. Several other representatives of society also believe that God has created every person for happiness, so we want to ensure that every person in Latvia has equal rights, opportunities and freedoms, including rights and opportunities for Orthodox and Oldbelievers to celebrate their Christmas. We must finally recognise the rights and freedoms that a person gains when he is born and preserved throughout his life. My understanding of justice and that of my colleagues is based on the conviction of equality of all people before the law. The State of Latvia must ensure fundamental human rights and freedoms in accordance with the fundamental principles of Scripture, which are enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. I call on all my fellow Members, Members of the Saeima - irrespective of party membership - not to restrict the freedom of choice of others, to take a step towards a large part of society and to recognise these holidays as official, showing respect for a significant part of Latvia's population, its traditions and culture. This would be an important step towards social cohesion and the start of a late dialogue. I call for the vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U7	Thank you. ‘ Against” applied to speak by Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U8	Dear President, Honourable Members! Dear colleagues, Mr. Agešin. You are currently misleading the Latvian Saeima, because from 1936 the Latvian Orthodox Church came to the Patriarchy of Constantinople and moved the Christmas celebration to December 24 and 25, and did not celebrate, as you say, January 7. Next. In March 1936, Augustine Peterson was elected as the metropolitan of the Orthodox Church of Latvia in the convention elections, and at the same time a document called Thomas was sent from Constantinople, which strengthens that the Orthodox Church of Latvia has been placed under the canonical authority of the Patriarch of Constantinople. The Latvian Orthodox Church became part of the Nordic network of modern churches on 22-27 August 1937. The Orthodox Churches of Latvia, Estonia and Finland held a joint convention in Sortová, Finland, where they agreed on joint cooperation and on the management of the consequences of their presence in the former Tsarist Empire, where the Church was administratively subordinate to the government of the Tsarist Empire, as well as on the need to cooperate in the transition of services to Latvian, Finnish and Estonian. Next Courage. While occupying Latvia, the Soviet troops in June 1940 and 1941 did not even intend to make any changes to the Latvian Orthodox Church. But what happened next? Let me read one document - the honourable Mr. Agešin will be able to get acquainted with it! - published by the Latvian historian Heinrich Strod in his book “The Metropolit Augustine Peterson”. ( Shows a book.) Here are all documents about the Latvian Orthodox Church destroyed by the Czech Republic. On February 3, 1941, the USSR People's Commissioner for the Interior was divided into two parts - the People's Commissioner for the Interior and the State Security People's Commissioner for the USSR, or in a check with the President Merkulov at the forefront. Merkulov wrote to Stalin just a month after his appointment: “In the territories of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania there are autokefals (i.e. independent, Mr. Agešin!) Orthodox Churches led by local metropolises - bourgeois government inserts. Around the head of Synod Augustine, previously active supporter of Ulmanis, is grouping together anti-Soviet elements - supporters of the fascist organization “Purchase”. As a result, the State Security People's Commissioner was going to take the following steps: firstly, taking the decision of the Patriarchy of Moscow to expose the churches of Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania to Moscow, using ordinary clergymen as if applications and demands; secondly, to designate as a VDTK agent, Dmitry Nikolayevich Voskresenski, the father of Sergis, to manage the Baltic eparchia of the Patriarchy of Moscow. ( Among the members of the SC group.) Moscow Patriarchate in 1941 made a decision - without any synods and votes, simply made a decision! - By which the autonomous Latvian Orthodox Church was dissolved, Sinodi released and announced that it had been added... There was no Orthodox Church of Russia as such in Latvia, so the Orthodox Church of Latvia was added to the patriarch of Moscow. Thus, the Czech Republic released the metropolitan metropolitan of the Orthodox Church of Latvia, which was elected canonically and approved by the Patriarch of Constantinople. After restoration of Latvia's independence in 1991, Estonia restored its Orthodox Church to the Patriarchate of Constantinople. 50 congregations remained. Both Russian and Estonian congregations crossed the Patriarchate of Constantinople. They celebrate their holidays in the new calendar, in the new style. The Finnish Orthodox Church celebrates its new style. The Latvian congregations in the present Orthodox Church celebrate the new style. In Kaliningrad, as the Kaliningrad metropolit declared, about half of the congregations in the new style are celebrating. And now one appears suddenly, and he says: “You know, we have to legalise the consequences of occupation, the Ribentrop-Molotov Pact! ( From the drug depot. W.Ageshin: “Time! Time!” ) Let us confirm this Merculov decision and introduce here another new day to celebrate it!’ ( From the intermediate group of SC: “Time is up! ” ) Thus, the National Association, which recognises the rights of all Churches - both Muslim Ramadan, Chinese New Year and Moses believers - cannot legalize this occupation fact. And I call for this decision not to be supported. Thank you. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ; dep. I.Zariņš intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken for and the other against. The question must therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs by Mr Valija Agešina, Mr Jānis Urbanoviča, Ivana Ribakova, Andrejs Elksniņa and Sergejs Potapkin! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 50, for - 19, for - 13. So the question has been decided. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the agenda. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Mr Pimenov, are you going to talk about the transfer of the draft law or the 'no'? Against. So Igor Pimenov has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U10	Hello, honourable Members! Honourable Members! With this bill, the government is moving...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U11	Mr. Pimenov, one moment! Colleagues, please, take your seats in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U12	Thank you, President. By this draft law, the government seeks to transfer the initiation of the insolvency proceedings of a natural person, which were approved by the relevant amendments of the previous Saeima to the insolvency law, from 1 January to 1 March. 11.The Saeima adopted an amendment which states that after the sale of the property serving as collateral, the secured creditor shall lose his right to claim and the remaining liabilities of the debtor between the creditor and the debtor shall be extinguished with the approval of the auction act. Journalists and society, and politicians call the key principle. We all know that. This draft law without this norm being transposed for a later period also mentions other norms, there are other amendments, other proposals, but the transposition of the key principle of this law is the main point of this draft law, the “oven” of this draft law. I would definitely like to say that this provision means more than defending the rights of good faith borrowers. This bill represents a serious turning point in the development of our legal framework, because this norm, when it is ensured, will mean that banks will become the real valuer of real estate and that, as a result, the price of real estate will not increase, which they already warn, but rather threaten and blackmail society. There will be no interest in raising prices for those who build new buildings and homes, because only the loans that banks will allow to grant to borrowers will cover the price, and then there will be no incentive to raise prices in the real estate market. In our view, by presenting this bill, the government is showing a political numb, delaying the start of the necessary reforms for society in mortgage lending. Consequently, we cannot support this draft law and we believe that the norm that was adopted in the 11th Saeima recently - before the elections to the new Saeima - must be maintained. I think that this will represent a serious step towards our borrowers and will ensure fair rules in our market. This bill, in fact, will mean an attempt by the government to take responsibility for this very important reform step and, under pressure from the banking lobby, to go back on the road. In our view, this is not right and politically it is criminal. We therefore call on you not to support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U13	Thank you. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I am surprised by the rapid change in opinion of my colleagues. I don't know what it's called. Perhaps for hypocrisy. I would like to remind you that, some time ago, the Legal Commission of the Saeima looked at the proposals submitted by the Ministry of Justice for amendments to the Civil Procedure Act, which also provided for the introduction of a procedural regulation concerning the established key principle. At the meeting when we decided on this issue, none of the Members of the Group supported the amendments in question. The same happened last Thursday when we voted in favour of including the same amendments on the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Today, colleagues, it is quite simply too late to say that you are in favour of the key principle and do not want to postpone the entry into force of the law into force on 1 March... simply because at the moment we cannot be able to introduce this civil procedural regulation. ( From the drug depot. Elksniņš: “It was possible last Thursday!” ) Mr Elksniņš, when you voted, you should probably have thought about it. ( From the drug depot. A.Elksniņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) Colleagues, I call for support for the transfer of this draft law to the Legal Commission of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U15	Thank you. One Member has spoken for and the other against. The matter must be resolved by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Solvency” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -21, for -1. The decision has been taken. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The next item is the referral to the Commission of the draft law on amendments to the Civil Procedure Law. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. The question must therefore be decided by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's not 19, it's not. So the decision has been made. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the own-initiative proposal tabled. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the rejection of the collective initiative “Woting on the Internet” presented by 10 845 Latvian citizens”. Are Members opposed to putting this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for today's sitting? Are there any objections? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informed that she had received a request from Member Jānis Urbanovičs to grant him unpaid leave on 11 December of this year. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Urbanovičs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the decision has been taken and the leave is granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Consequently, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Solvitas Cīrule as a judge of a district (city) court’ is on the agenda. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U16	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 November this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Solvita Cīrule as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Solvita Cīrulis to appoint a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Solvitas Cīrule as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Jeanna Gaigales-Prudnikov as a judge of a district (city) court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U18	The draft decision “On the appointment of Genna Gaigales-Prudnikovas as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 November this year. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Mr Jeann Gaigali-Prudnikov to appoint a judge to the district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Jeanna Gaigales-Prudnikovas as judge of the district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the appointment of Andra Skutan as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U20	The draft decision “On the appointment of Andra Škutāns as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 November this year. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Andris Škutāns to be a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Andra Škutāns as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the removal of Solvitas Glaudane from the position of judge of Jurmala city court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U22	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 2 December of this year, the draft decision “On the cancellation of Solvita Glaudane from the position of judge of Jurmala city court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On the basis of the decision of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee, on behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Solvita Glaudāna to revoke from the office of judge of Jurmala city court for permitted gross negligence in the examination of the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the repeal of Solvitas Glaudane from the position of judge of Jurmala city court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on granting Gunaras Aigaram the title of Judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U24	At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 November following the proposal of the Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of Article 66 of the Law “On Judicial Power”, the draft decision “On Granting the Name of the Honorary Judge to Gunārs Aigars” was reviewed. The judge Gunārs Aigars devoted 47 years of his life to the work of the judge: initially he worked in Liepaja district court as the judge and the Chair of the court, but since the independent establishment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Latvia in 1990 until today – in the Supreme Court. When a new structure of the Supreme Court was created in 1995, according to the three-stage judicial system of Latvia, Gunārs Aigars was elected President of the Chamber of Civil Cases, repeatedly in 2000, 2005 and 2010. Mr Aigars has devoted much of his efforts and energy by creating this structure of court, organising and directing the work of Chamber judges, promoting professional development of judges and development of court practice. Among judges Gunārs Aigars has great authority and respect, based on his extensive theoretical knowledge and practical work experience. Gunārs Aigars uses his knowledge and experience when reading lectures to students of legal sciences, as well as practitioners at seminars organised by the Supreme Court and Judicial Training Centre. Since 1991 Gunārs Aigars has been a member of the judicial self-governing institution - Judicial Qualification Committee, but since 12 February 1999 - the chairman of this college. From 1995 to 2014 Gunārs Aigars was also Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, represented the Saeima Commission of the Supreme Court in sittings and various working groups dealing with issues of importance to the organisation of work of courts. Gunārs Aigars is one of the authors of comments of Civil Procedure Law. In 2009 Gunārs Aigars received the Themis Award of the Supreme Court at the nomination “The Man of the Year” and the highest state award – the Class III Cross of Recognition. The members of the Saeima Legal Commission have unanimously supported the said draft decision by expressing their appreciation for the long-term and impeccable performance of the duties of a judge, as well as in order to confirm their respect and gratitude for the work done. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Gunārs Aigaram to give the name of the Honorary Judge.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the award of the title of Honorary Judge to Gunaras Aigaram! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on granting Astrid Herta Berzina the title of the judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U26	At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 November following the proposal of the Council for the Judiciary, on the basis of Article 66 of the Law “On Judicial Power”, the draft decision “On Granting of the Name of the Honorary Judge to Astrids Herta Berzins” was reviewed. Astrid Herta Berzina was a judge of the regional court of Kurzeme and, at the same time, the chairman of the regional court since its establishment in 1995 until November 28, 2005. 17 years ago – the judge of the Liepaja court, but since 1998 – also the chairman of the Liepaja court. In 1999 Astrid Herta Berzins was awarded the 3rd Grade of Recognition of the Ministry of Justice. On 28 November 2005, the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia released Astrid Herta Berzina from the position of a judge of Kurzeme Regional Court due to the achievement of the maximum age required by law for the performance of his duties. In 2005 Astrids Herta Bērzins was awarded 1st grade of the Ministry of Justice and Golden Fountain for his contribution to the development of the Latvian judicial system. To perform exemplary, honest and creative duties in 2011 Astrid Herta Bērziņa was awarded with the third degree honor mark of the judicial system. Astrid Herta Bērziņa has worked in the justice system for 27 years, during which time she proved herself as a highly professional judge, as well as a good collective leader. Under the leadership of Mrs. Berzin, a regional court of Kurzeme was established. She has raised several new judges, who are still successful in forming the career of a judge. During its term of office Astrid Herta Bērziņa was authority in the field of criminal law for all colleagues. She has always been actively involved in the discussion of draft laws and in the formulation of legal policies. Since 1996 Astrid Herta Berzina was a member of the Board of the Latvian Judicial Association. She is also still an active member of the Latvian Judicial Association, thus Mrs. Berzins has made a particularly important contribution to the development of the judicial system and to the promotion of knowledge and professionalism of the officials belonging to the judicial system. Members of the Legal Commission of the Saeima unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Astrid Herta Berzins to give the name of the Honorary Judge.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U27	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On granting the title of honorary judge to Astrid Herta Berzins”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the members of the Central Land Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U28	Good morning, colleagues! On 3 December this year, i.e. yesterday, several members were nominated as members of the Central Land Commission at the Parliamentary Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. On behalf of the Parliamentary Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I ask to approve, subject to yesterday's decision, the following Members of the Central Land Commission: Mr Gaidi Berzin, Ms Janina Kursite, Mr Aivars Meija, Mr Artūra Rubik, Mr Janis Ruka, Mr Edward Smilten, Mr Janis Tutin and Mr Juris Vectirāns. Please support this decision with a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Central Land Commission. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Jurs Vectirāns as President of the Central Land Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U30	Also, when looking at the question about the Chairman of the Central Land Commission, the Commission received a proposal to elect Juris Vectirāns, the Speaker of the Central Land Commission. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call on Member Juris Vectirāns to be approved as Chairman of the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Juris Vectirāns as Chairman of the Central Land Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. ( Some Members are applauding.) The next item is the agenda. Member Edgars Putra, Jānis Trupovnieks, Augusts Brigmanis, Ingmārs Līdaka, Armands Krauze and others have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal from the Parliamentary Commission of the Republic of Latvia of the Parliamentary Member Edgars Putra from the sale process of 75% of the state-owned shares in Citadele Bank, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Parliamentary Member of the Republic of Latvia Edgars Putra from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the progress of the sale process of the state-owned 75% of Citadele bank’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member Walter Dambe of the Republic of Latvia to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the progress of the sale process of the state-owned 75% stake in Citadele bank, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resell ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the election of the Saeima Member of the Republic of Latvia Valter Dambe to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on the progress of the sale process of the state-owned 75% stake in Citadele bank, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resell ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is the agenda. Members Gaidis Berzins, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Laizāne, Imants Krādnieks and others have submitted a draft decision “On the withdrawal of Jānis Dombrava from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please vote mode! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Jānis Dombrava from the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. The next item is the agenda. Members Gaidis Berzins, Jānis Dombrava, Inese Laizāne, Imants Krādnieks, Romanas Maudiņš and others have submitted a draft decision “On approval of Inese Laizāne as the Permanent Representative of the Latvian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Inese Laizane as the Permanent Representative of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others have submitted a draft decision “On withdrawal of Member Edvins Šnores from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Edvins Šnores from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others have submitted a draft decision on the election of Member Edvins Šnores to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Edwin Schnore to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima". Thus, according to Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on the prohibition of unfair retail practices submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U32	Hello, dear colleagues! So your attention is to the draft law on the prohibition of unfair retail practices. At the 11th Saeima, this draft law was discussed already at second reading. The purpose of this Act is to limit the use of retailers' purchasing power against suppliers. In short, this law was created mainly to sort out the relationship between food suppliers and traders. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy calls for further examination of this draft law in the 12th Saeima as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U33	Thank you. Andrey Elksniņš, the Member of the European Parliament, applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U34	President-in-Office of the Saeima, honourable colleagues! In fact, I would like to refer to this draft law as perhaps “Rimi” and Maxim’s draft law, because the nature of this draft law is to a large extent to protect Latvian food producers from the arbitrariness of traders in circumstances where the restrictions contained in the Competition Law do not, to a large extent, achieve their goal. In particular, I am calling for significant proposals to be put forward in the draft law mentioned, which was dealt with in two readings in the previous parliamentary term, but we are not able to examine it at third reading as well, which would, to a large extent, restrict the arbitrary nature of traders. Traders should, for example, be prohibited from requiring different discounts and compensation from manufacturers, say, to compensate for the costs of logistics services or administrative costs. At the same time, I call for an assessment and proposals to be made that the pre-paid discount on the producer should not exceed 2 per cent, as is the case in other European countries. Similarly, traders should be prohibited from using different mark-ups for goods of different suppliers but for goods of the same product group, as this, for example, hinders new products and new producers from entering the market. The time limits within which traders should settle with producers of goods should also be assessed. In our view, the period of validity of the goods in question should also be assessed. They should also reorder the settlement, not as they are at present, that for all groups of goods it is basically 30-40 days. Thus, honourable colleagues, I really call for this draft law to be directed perhaps much more quickly and really to protect people working in Latvia from the arbitrariness of retail networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U35	Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U36	Will you not allow anything to be said in the name of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U37	So on behalf of the Commission, you wanted to add something. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U38	Yes, I just wanted to add that much of the draft law mentioned by Mr Elksniņš has already been incorporated and that, of course, the only thing that I think should be discussed, and which was also discussed within the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission... The only crucial question is whether all retailers need to be regulated in the same way and whether all retailers need to impose the same restrictions on suppliers. Because, of course, there are big marketing chains and of course there are also small traders, small rural shops, which may, however, be able to cope with their suppliers... they could only deal with this relationship by means of supply contracts, because it is not so important for small traders as to see how many days they need to pay for berries or vegetables. So, in fact, probably the main discussion in the future will be whether this regulation will be absolutely the same for everyone. Thank you. But, of course, on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Law on Prohibition of Unfair Retail Practices” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members not opposed to being the committee responsible in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U40	December 18th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U41	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the 11th draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” submitted to the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U42	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Competition Law result from your previously approved draft law on the prohibition of unfair retail practices. From these articles of the Competition Law, the part that relates specifically to retail regulation is removed. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I call for further consideration of this draft law at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U43	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members not opposed to being the committee responsible in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U44	Analogous as before, that's December 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U45	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 December this year. According to Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on the movement of energy drinks submitted to the Saeima at the 11th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U46	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks. As you know, it was discussed in the previous Saeima before the third reading... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. As you remember, the debate was hot. The main idea why such a draft law was created in general was that it was created in accordance with the public health guidelines to take care of our future generation's health. The debate on this draft law was largely affected by the fact that one cup of weights contains the health of our society in the future, and on the other hand by certain economic interests, and it would be very important to balance them correctly when drawing up this draft law. And another question that was discussed in the previous Saeima. The European Commission received an opinion on whether this draft law would conflict with the European Commission's rules. Such harmonisation has been received: there are no such contradictions! The Commission has decided to invite the Saeima to examine this draft law also in this Saeima, setting a sufficiently long time limit for the submission of proposals for second reading, so that it can be discussed very seriously and, in parallel, receive a competent opinion from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission has already prepared... And if you support this commission, the request for such an opinion will be sent to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you, colleagues. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U47	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Law on the movement of energy drinks” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? Thus, there is no objection to Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U48	4 February of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U49	So there are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - 4 February 2015. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs proposes to continue the examination of the draft 11th Saeima Law on the Service of Emergency Medical Assistance’s Service’s Service for Emergency Health Pensions at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Ms Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U50	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs examined the draft law discussed at the 11th parliamentary meeting of the Saeima, which was submitted to the 11th Saeima and drafted by the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs in cooperation with the Emergency Medical Assistance Service. In the 12th parliamentary term, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, in absolute unanimity, supported the further progress of this draft law. I therefore call on you, honourable colleagues, to support further progress in the draft law on the retirement pensions of staff involved in emergency medical care.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U51	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Indemnity Pensions Law of the personnel involved in the provision of emergency medical assistance” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U52	30 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U53	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 30 December this year. Colleagues, Members of the Parliament Gaida Berzins, Andra Vilka, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others have received a proposal to change the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 4 December this year and to include a draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of Member Gunārs Rusiņš to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the meeting of the Saeima on 4 December this year and to include the draft decision of the Saeima “On the election of the Member Gunārs Rusiņš to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application”. Are there any objections to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. Thank you. The next item is the agenda. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Order Roll, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on retirement pensions of officials of state security institutions submitted to the 11th Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U54	Thank you. High honourable Members! The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs asks to give it the right to continue to examine this draft law. The Commission meeting, which decided to support and direct this draft law at the 12th Saeima, was attended by three ministries - the Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence - which also supported Members. In this context, please support the draft law and refer it to the Social and Labour Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U55	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Law on Service Pensions of Officials of State Security Institutions” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? So Members do not object. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U56	The Commission will wait until 30 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U57	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 30 December this year. The next item is the agenda. Colleagues, can we continue the Saeima sitting? Please, quiet in the room! Please, telephone conversations can also be done outside the hall! According to Article 39 of the Parliamentary Rules roll, the members of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government propose to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Structure of the State Administration” submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U58	Madam President, Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Administration Structures”. I would briefly remind you that this is a draft law from the so-called state equity management reform package, which therefore lays down the arrangements for the management of public undertakings and the management of their shares. I would remind you that the main draft law in this package was adopted at one of the last sittings of the previous Saeima. And this draft law was supported at second reading. This draft law provides for cases in which the state and local authorities may participate in business activities. In fact, these are two cases: if there is a market error (the private sector is unable to provide this service or product), or if it is a strategic sector. The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined this draft law and invites the Saeima to continue to look at the draft law in this Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U59	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U60	23 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U61	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 23 December this year. According to Section 39 of the Parliamentary Rules Roll, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” submitted to the 11th Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U62	See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Property of a Public Person”. The draft law in the previous Saeima was approved at first reading. The draft law is intended to facilitate the arrangements for public persons to transfer their movable property, let us accept old computers or furniture, to public benefit organisations. Now it can be done in a relaxed order, not as it was before, through the Cabinet of Ministers, but... Thus, the draft law requires the Cabinet of Ministers to allow for more important decisions, but these, less important, to allow either the Minister or the ministerial official to adopt them. Thus, the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government reviewed and invited the Saeima to continue reviewing this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U64	23 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U65	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 23 December this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Order Roll, the Commission on Social Affairs proposes to continue the examination of the draft law on voluntary work submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U66	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Volunteering Labour Law” was examined in two readings already at the Saeima and has also been substantially improved during the second reading. Therefore, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs also unanimously decided to continue the examination of this draft law in this Saeima. The voluntary work law is necessary to provide a supportive and comprehensive legal framework for volunteering, which promotes the development of voluntary work and the improvement of the working environment for volunteer workers. I invite you to support the continuation of this draft law in this Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U67	Thank you. In the debate, Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Volunteering Labour Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made - the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U68	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - December 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U69	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is December 19th this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Order Roll, the National Administration and Municipal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law on Statistics submitted to the Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U70	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Statistics Law”, which provides for the consolidation of two existing laws – the Law on State Statistics and the Law on People’s Counting – in the first place, as well as the requirements arising from the laws and regulations of the European Union. The Commission, when examining this draft law, decided to continue its examination and calls on the Saeima to support this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U71	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Statistics Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U72	The Commission decided to set the deadline for the submission of proposals on 18 December this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U73	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 18 December this year. According to Section 39 of the Parliamentary Order Roll, the National Administration and Local Government Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” submitted to the 11th Saeima at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U74	Dear colleagues, The aim of the proposed draft law is to improve regulation of norms, which applies to the duties of the owner of the apartment property, that is, to create long-term savings for the maintenance of the residential house, to comply with the rules for the use of separate property and so on. This draft law also specifies the procedure of payment for management and use services, as well as the conditions of decision-making of the community of apartment owners. The Commission has looked at this draft law and calls on the Saeima to support its follow-up to the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U75	Thank you. Members do not want to debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. The National Administration and Municipal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have no reservations that in the 12th Saeima it will also be the commission responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U76	The Commission of State Administration and Local Government invites to submit proposals by 7 January 2015.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U77	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals - January 7, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U79	Pursuant to Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” at the 12th Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U80	Madam President, Honourable Members! The amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” is necessary due to the fact that in future the Patent Office will not accept state fees but will be the payments of the Patent Board. This is related to the law on industrial property. I therefore call for the exclusion of paragraph 17 of the second paragraph of Article 11, which still provides for national duties on the protection of industrial property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U82	And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U83	No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that in the 12th Saeima it will also be responsible for this draft law? There is no objection by Members. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U84	9 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U85	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 9 December this year. Thank you. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". So the next item on the agenda is the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax", second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U86	Dear President, Honourable Members! Last week, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax” granted urgency status and adopted it at first reading, with a deadline of five days for submitting proposals for second reading. A total of 21 proposals were received. In fact, there were only two applicants: the Legal Bureau of the Saeima and the Member Imants Debtor. During the discussions on these proposals, it was decided that the proposals made by Mr. Debtor... these proposals made by him involved losses incurred by taxpayers during the tax period resulting from the correction of profits and losses... to cover the losses found within a chronological order of time. In particular, financial and capital market players were affected. But since both the invited experts and our members of the Commission have acknowledged that this is quite conceptual and can significantly change our tax treatment for various businesses, including foreign investors, it was decided that we would look at these issues again in the near future and return to them. Thus there remained only 16 - the proposals of the Legal Bureau, which were more editorial nature and affected directly the layout of the articles. So it's 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U87	The Commission has supported this. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U88	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. ( From the SC fraction: “What about? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U89	The Commission has supported it, and Members do not object either.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U90	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was in favour. ( From the drug depot. Ms Ageshin: “What is this proposal about?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U91	There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U92	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U93	Mr. Dalder, the Commission has supported it! And the Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U94	The Commission supports 5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U95	Wait! No, so 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U96	The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U97	The Commission's opinion, please. Has the Commission supported it?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U98	The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U99	Thank you. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U100	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U101	There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U102	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U103	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U104	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U105	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U106	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U107	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U108	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U109	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U110	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U111	There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U112	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U113	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U114	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U115	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U116	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U118	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U119	Members have no reservations.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U120	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U121	Thank you. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U122	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U123	There is no objection by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U124	As all the proposals have been examined, I call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U125	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The draft law has been approved at final reading. The next item is the second reading of the draft law on the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U126	Colleagues, only one proposal has been received, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U127	Thank you. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U128	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U129	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U130	9 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U131	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 9 December this year. The next item is the draft law on the amendment to the law on individual (family) enterprises and the farmer or fisherman's farm, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U132	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the law “On individual (family) business and farmer or fisherman’s farm””. Section 7 of this Law provides that if an individual enterprise is set up on the basis of family joint ownership, the adult family members shall conclude an agreement with each other. The establishment contract shall be signed by all the members of the family who are operational. In the Commission, we have examined the draft law and we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U133	The commission has therefore requested that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the law “On individual (family) enterprises and farmers or fishermen’s farms”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U134	And the Commission is asking you, Members, to adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U135	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the law on individual (family) enterprises and farmers or fishermen’s farms”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. So the draft law at first reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U136	We will wait until December 11, this year, and we will see the draft law at the Saeima's sitting at second reading on December 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U137	Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 11 December of this year, and for the second reading - 18 December of this year. The next item is the draft law on the extension of the deadline for signing the European Cooperation National Plan Charter. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U138	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The draft law “On the extension of the signing of the European Cooperation National Plan Charter” is related to Latvia’s cooperation with the European Space Agency. In 2013, the European Space Agency and the Ministry of Education and Science jointly organised an information meeting in Riga for potential applicants of the European Space Agency projects, resulting in 33 projects submitted later. After evaluation of these projects, 100 per cent of the funding was selected for ten projects of more than EUR 1 million. There are eight scientific institutions and two commercial companies among the beneficiaries. At least two or three such names are provided for in the following five years. These cooperation and projects are linked to the higher technologies, their development and use, offering them for practical use (e.g. development of satellites for commercial purposes). However, these projects can only be implemented if Latvia makes an annual payment to the Member States. The first payment amounts to EUR 1.3 million, but so far it has not been budgeted. With the hope that the government will find money for this membership fee, we need to transfer Latvia's deadline for signing the Charter from 14 March 2014 to January 2015. If we do not do this now, we will lose the opportunity to cooperate with the European Space Agency at all and to carry out these projects. By the way, Estonia has already taken all the necessary steps to become a member of the European Space Agency and is preparing to sign an agreement with this Agency in February next year. And I would also like to point out that this draft law does not impose any financial obligations. It only ensures that Latvia will be able to cooperate with this agency and implement the planned projects if the government allocates the necessary funds to it. By approving this draft law, we retain the opportunity to cooperate with this agency. Without this, all possible cooperation is suspended. The Foreign Affairs Commission discussed this draft law and supported it. I also call on colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U139	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on an agreement on the extension of the deadline for signing the European Cooperation National Plan. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading was supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U140	9 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U141	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 December of this year. Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States of America on the Improvement of International Tax Obligations and the Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of Tax Obligations of Foreign Accounts (FATCA). The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U142	Yeah, we're working on document No.23. And this agreement is linked to the US Foreign Account Tax Obligations Act. In English it is known as the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act or FATCA. The objective of the agreement is to increase the ability of US tax authorities to combat tax evasion by using bank accounts abroad. The draft law provides for much closer cooperation, information exchange and in-depth investigation between the competent authorities of Latvia and the USA, improving international cooperation in the field of taxation. It also gives Latvia similar rights to our taxpayers in the USA. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined and proposed that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U143	Thank you. The commission has therefore requested that the draft law be declared urgent. We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on the Improvement of International Tax Obligations and the Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of Foreign Account Tax Obligations (FATCA)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U144	Yeah. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U145	Yeah, thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on the Improvement of International Tax Obligations and the Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of Foreign Account Tax Obligations (FATCA)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law at first reading was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U146	I call for support now for the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U147	Are there any objections to supporting the draft law at second, final, final reading? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on the Improvement of International Tax Obligations and the Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of Foreign Account Tax Obligations ( FATCA)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U149	There has been a proposal from Members Kārlis Šadurskas, Solvita Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzins, Augusta Brigmanis and Karlis Sergeants to continue the sitting on 4 December of the Saeima without interruption. ( From the drug depot. J.Urbanovich: “Right!” ) Do Members have objections? There's no objection? Members agree. So we continue the Saeima session without interruption. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia””, first reading. The Commission proposes that it be declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U150	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission of the Saeima in its meeting of 3 December discussed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the law “On the State coat of arms of Latvia”” and decided to support this draft law at first reading. The draft law relates, first of all, to the right to use the large state coat of arms by one of the newly created institutions - the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Secondly, the draft law provides for the extension of the range of exceptional cases allowed by law, where institutions and officials indicated by the law are permitted to use other coat of arms, sign, emblem or logo without state coat of arms, but each such case must be confirmed in the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law also regulates situations with the use of state armour when information...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U151	One moment, Mr. Wuzan! ( Slaughter with a hammer.) Colleagues, please respect the speaker in the floor. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U152	... when the information has been distributed electronically, reproduced in the field of geospatial information. On behalf of the Commission, please make the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U153	Thank you. The Commission therefore proposes that the draft law be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, the draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U154	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U155	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U156	On behalf of the commission responsible, I am asking you today to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U157	Are there any objections to supporting the draft law at second, final, final reading? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the State of Latvia””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was supported at second, final, reading. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others submitted a draft decision “On Election of Member Gunārs Rusiņš to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Gunārs Rusiņš to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. Members Gaidis Berzins, Andris Vilks, Imants Krādnieks, Jānis Dombrava, Kārlis Krēsliņš and others submitted a draft decision “On the election of Member Gunārs Rusiņš to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Gunārs Rusiņš to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the decision has been made. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". The Cabinet of Ministers presented the draft decision “On the participation of the soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Afghanistan”. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the European Parliament, applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U158	Colleagues! At the recent Wales Summit, NATO member states reaffirmed their readiness to continue their military support to the Afghan Government also after the conclusion of the ISAF operation. The continuation of this engagement will take place in the framework of the NATO mission Resolite Support, but after 2014 NATO's role in Afghanistan will be in principle different in terms of both tasks and scope. It will no longer be involved in combat operations, but will include training and advisory support for local Afghan security structures. It will be a small mission with a presence in the capital city of Kabul and initially in four centres of the country region. The legal basis for NATO engagement consists of a bilateral agreement with the status of NATO Armed Forces and NATO personnel, which also includes an official invitation to Afghanistan to continue NATO involvement in Afghanistan. Last week, this Treaty was also ratified by the Afghan Parliament and has formally entered into force. In view of our joint commitment to further engagement in Afghanistan, it is important for us to participate with our NATO allies in the NATO Mission Resolute Support. Such a step by Latvia would confirm our readiness, together with other NATO member states and Alliance partners, to contribute to NATO's overall efforts to maintain progress in Afghanistan and to achieve further strengthening of security and stability. Latvia's planned level of engagement in this operation will be up to 30 soldiers, whose main task will be to support the training of local forces and to ensure the provision of advice by taking the positions of advisors and officers at different levels of the headquarters. This means that Latvian soldiers in the new operation in Afghanistan will not participate in the implementation of combat operations. The main location of the Latvian contingent is planned to be maintained in the northern region of Afghanistan and Kabul, as well as in regions where our soldiers are already present. Since the time limit for operation Resolute Support has not yet been established internationally, the directed mandate provides for the participation of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the operation until 31 December 2015. In view of the above, I call for support for the decision to grant our soldiers a mandate to participate in Operation Resolute Support, thereby extending the involvement of our soldiers in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U159	Thank you. In the debate Members have not applied any more. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Afghanistan”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the decision has been made. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda is the draft decision “On the rejection of the collective initiative “on the Internet Elections” presented by 10 845 Latvian citizens”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U160	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 21 August 2014 the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia received a collective application signed by Latvian citizens on the Internet, inviting the Saeima to make amendments to the law that would allow Latvian citizens to participate in referendums, municipal and parliamentary elections by voting on the Internet. The Office of Citizenship and Immigration Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior recognised 10 900 signatures submitted as valid 10 845. On 15 September 2014, the Saeima Presidium decided to transfer a collective application to the Saeima’s mandate, ethics and application to the committee. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications started to look at the initiative at the 11th Saeima and continued its assessment of the collective application at the 12th Saeima in a different composition of the Commission. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications praised the authors of the collective application for expressing active civil opinion on issues relevant to the development of Latvia's state. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications listened to the views and arguments of the representatives of the initiative, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Latvian Open Technology Association. The Commission found that the opinion of the industry experts surveyed was negative, because at the moment there are no technological solutions that would be safe and at the same time ensure the principle of confidentiality strengthened by the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. Since the commission has not been offered a scientifically extensive and reasoned justification that ensures both the principle of confidentiality and the security of signatures, voting on the Internet, on 26 November 2014 the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application prepared and supported the draft decision of the Saeima “On Rejection of the Collective Initiative on Elections on the Internet” submitted by 10 845 Latvian citizens. The Commission is asking to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the rejection of the collective initiative on Internet Elections presented by 10 845 Latvian citizens! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. Consequently, all items on the agenda have been dealt with. I would like to inform you about the replies to Members' questions, the question and the answers scheduled for 5 p.m. Questions by Members Zarina, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Lochmele-Lunova, Tretjaka and Pimenov regarding the implementation of the Rail Baltica project are addressed to the Minister of Transport Anrijs Matīss. The applicants are not satisfied with the written reply. The Minister cannot come today, so the response is postponed to the next week. The question of Members Zarina, Urbanovich, Ribakova, Potapkin and Agešina to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the real acquirers of state-owned Citadele shares”. Members are not satisfied with the written answer, and since today the Prime Minister is unable to come, the question is referred to the Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who is also unable to come, the reply is postponed to the next week. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdotas Straujuma “On the completion of the task given to the Cabinet of Ministers” by Members Agešins, Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Zemļinskas and Potapkina. As a result of the mission to Brussels, the written answer was expected to be given on 04.12.2014. It is today, but there is no answer, and the question is forwarded to the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis, who is unable to arrive today. Consequently, the response is postponed to the following week. The question by Member Zariņa, Agešina, Elksniņa, Klementyeva and Pimenov, Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs, about welfare requirements of fur animals. According to the Office of the SRSG on Children and Armed Conflict, he was responsible for recruitment and use of children under 18 years old. Consequently, the response is postponed to the following week. The question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On possible conclusion of an option agreement between the Government of Latvia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) on the sale to the Government of Latvia of the joint stock company Citadele banka and the joint stock company Reverta owned by EBRD” by Pimenova, Urbanovich, Mirska, Rubika and Cilevič. It should be noted that no reply has been received, but a written reply will be provided on 5 December as a result of the visit to Brussels. The question is addressed to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who is unable to arrive today. The question is therefore to be moved to the next week. The question of Member Pimenova, Potapkina, Mirska, Rubika, Cilevičs and other issues to Minister of Defence Raimonds Vējonis “On the Health Status of Latvian Warriors”. The oral answer will be given. Today it is possible to listen to the Minister's reply at 17.00. The question of the members Elksniņa, Tretjaka, Stepanenko, Zemlinska and Lochmele-Lunova regarding the closure of the Daugavpils branch of the Bank of Latvia to Ilmārs Rimšēvičs, President of the Bank of Latvia. The applicants shall be satisfied with the written answer and the question shall be deemed to have been answered. On the question of Member Elksniņa, Stepanenko, Nikiforova, Clementyeva and Ivanova-Jevsevsev Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the remuneration of medical staff and the provision of medical services”. Therefore, the answer is given, but the applicants are not satisfied. The question is addressed to the Minister for Health, Guntis Belevičs, who cannot come today. It is therefore to be moved to the next week. On the question of Member Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Orlova, Potapkina and Rubika to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On funding for the Library of the Blind in Latvia”. The answer is given. The applicants are so satisfied, and the question is re-addressed... Therefore, the oral question is not addressed either, since the answer of the applicants has been satisfied. With regard to the new questions submitted. Members Elksniņš, Tutin, Tretjaka, Lochmele-Lunova and Stepanenko have submitted a question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the remuneration and social guarantees of officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior”. It will be submitted for a reply. Members Zarins, Nikiforovs, Klementjevs, Stepanenko and Urbanovich have also submitted a question to the Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma “On the implementation of Rail Baltica project”. It will also be submitted for a reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs have also asked Members about AS Air Baltic Corporation and SJSC Riga International Airport Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma. It will also be submitted for a reply. Consequently, all items on the agenda have been examined and the time has come to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to say that Member Ilmārs Latkovskis celebrates his 56th anniversary. We sincerely welcome him all! (Applause) Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U162	Colleagues, good afternoon! Please, please, please, give me a moment's attention. On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Labour, I invite the following colleagues to the first sub-committee on Public Health: Hosam Abu Meri (UNITY), Aija Barču (Union of Greens and Farmers), Gunti Beleviča (Union of Greens and Farmers), Andris Bērzins (Union of Greens and Farmers), Marjan Ivanov-Jevsev (SASCAN), Andrejs Klementjev (SASCAN), Inese Lībiņi-Egneri (UNITY), Vitaliy Orlova (SASCAN), Romuald Produku (UNITY), Ingunu Ribena (VL-TB/LNNK), Ingunu Silver (From the heart to Latvia), Mārtiņš Šic (Association of Regions of Latvia). The subcommittee will take place at the Social and Labour Commission premises on Jēkaba iela 10/12 216, 30 minutes after the end of the Saeima meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U163	Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U164	Dear colleagues, Like the 11th Saeima, I call for the immediate establishment of a group of Members in the Yellow Hall in support of the Occupational Museum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U165	Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Alexey Loskutow.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U166	Immediately even in the Yellow Hall there will be the establishment of cooperation groups with Japan and Sweden.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U167	Name for the statement to the Member Gaid Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U168	Dear Members of the Legal Commission. Meeting of the Legal Commission after 5 minutes in the premises of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U169	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U170	Thank you. Dear Members, Today it has not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Inga Bite, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Aleksandrs Kiršteins (From the deposit of the hall. V.Spolitis: “Kirštein is!” ), Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Dainis Liepiņš, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Roman Mežeckis... Yes, Sergey Potakin, Edgar Putra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-12-04-PT12-275-U171	Thank you. That's why I closed the Saeima's sitting today.
