ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I'm calling for seats. Let's start November 11th. Good afternoon, dear colleagues! I'm calling for seats. Let's start November 11th. The Member Regina Lochmeles-Luniv, Arthur Neiminina, Inguna Silver, Gunara Kūrra, Sylvia Symfa, Arvīds Platopera, Aivars Meija, Mārtiņš Šics, Roman Mežecka, Mārtiņš Bondarka, Jānis Ruka, Nellijs Kleinberga, Daiņa Liepiņa, Inga Bites, Andreja Klementyeva, Nikitas Nikiforova, Valrya Agezin, Jānis Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Ribakova, Igora Pimenova, Sergeja Mirska, Raimonds Rubika, Sergey Potapkina, Vital Orlova, Janis Urbanovich, Andreja Elksniņa, Jielija Stepanenko, Ivana Clementyev, Boris Cilevič, Vladimir Nikonova, Mihail Zebinska, Zenotja Potakina, Janis Urbanovich, Andrew, Andreja, Jõgnis Urgiste-Supe-Supe-Sup-Sup-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss-s-s-ss-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s- So we are starting a debate. Member Arturs Kaimiņš spoke in the first debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U2	Honorary officers! Dear Members, Dear members of the Saeima! In my address, I will speak to you today about humility, self-esteem and honor. Dear colleagues, Please do not humiliate yourself, do not humiliate your party, do not humiliate the Saeima with silly calls from the grass during my speech. They will be registered on a verbatim record and will remain as proof of inability to rise over small knots in important moments. The public expect more from the Saeima. Our responsibility today is much higher, because by our actions and by our vote on the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry we modestly honor those 54 of our fellow citizens who died in Zolitūde due to the non-subordinated legislation of the Republic of Latvia. Let me explain what I mean by that. We live in a world of chance. Just like the victims of the Zolitudai victims, we cannot predict the evil lottery of life that could end at some point with death. Each of us could be at the Zolitūde supermarket on November 21, 2013. We were not there, so it is our duty to ensure that this never happens again. Today, November 11 is the 11th, when thanksgiving is placed in the Tombs of the Brothers, but the Cemetery of the Brothers has been formed so that our people can be honored and learn from the fate of the victims without guilt. The first three fallen Latvian strifemen – Andrejs Stūris, Jēkabs Voldemārs Timma and Jānis Gavenass – were laid in the country in October 1915, which became a Brothers Cemetery. This idea enabled us to regain our independence. We now have 54 Zolitude victims who have not died of bullets, but of the inactions of our legislation. We have a duty to give them glory and to learn from the fate of the victims without guilt so that this does not happen again. It is therefore very important to find out how legislation can regulate the behaviour of professionals building public buildings that rescue victims of crime. They may need our help. If bureaucracy is so destructive and heavy, it must be simplified. If legislation protects the profits of unscrupulous builders, then they must be changed. If self-help seekers and fraudsters work in the system, they must be denounced. Such data can only be provided to us by public conclusions of the competent parliamentary committee of inquiry. Today's issue is not about party politics and party membership. I'm standing here because I can't. And I believe that every self and respectful man of his people would do exactly the same thing. Dear colleagues, Please let us vote in favour of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. This is a matter of our self-esteem and honor. This is a question of the prestige of our Saeima and of the people's trust. In my address, I also mentioned the members of the Saeima. I did this because I believe that only Members alone will not be able to restore the prestige of the Saeima. Employees must feel proud of their belonging to the Saeima. Let us act as inspirationists, help them to find satisfaction in their contribution to matters of national importance! Zolitūde and test Saeima. Let us evaluate and understand what has happened! Let us demand and implement improvements in legislation! Let's be with the people! Please vote in favour of setting up a parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U3	Thank you. Ms Regina Ločmele-Lunova spoke in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U4	Honourable Members! Dear colleagues, Congratulations to all of you on Lāčplēsis Day – the day when we remember and honor the heroes who have fallen in the battles on freedom in Latvia! Tonight, on November 11, thousands of candles will be lit on the shore of Riga Castle, but in just ten days – 21 November – people will carry and light candles in Zolitūde near the place where the supermarket Maxima was once, but who collapsed due to circumstances that were not yet known and under which 54 people died, the oldest of which – Jurijs Aksjutinas – was 67 and the youngest of which – Daina Skadmanis – only 23 years old. The President of Latvia called the disaster, which became the worst by the number of victims since the restoration of Latvia's independence, the murder of a huge number of vulnerable people. The President said that at that time – one year ago, right after the tragedy – it was harsh to say that there can be no talk about an accident here, because nature or some external force can't be blamed for what happened. President Bērziņš said in his interview that much needed to be changed in the fundamentals, because after such tragedies, the world does not include the stamps and signatures, but the persons directly responsible who have signed. The signatories to the investigation shall have access to the insularity of the investigation. It would be very desirable here too – with us. That's Berzine. A year has passed since the President said those words. Neither does any of the investigations in the isolator sit down nor sit down. True, then Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis demisted, thus saving Daniel Pavlut, then Minister for Economics, from the forced demission. One person – Mārtiņš Šics – was released from work from all officials who could lose their post. When a new government with a Lyme Straujuma was established, the investigation of the Zolitude tragedy and its resolution were recorded as one of the priorities of the Government Declaration. As a result of the priority tasks, the Construction Law was changed and the Psychologists' Law was developed, which was discussed at the 11th Saeima at first reading and whose fate will still have to be decided by the 12th Saeima Members – so we. True, the Construction Law is a very small legislative act. The construction of all parts will still be governed by a number of construction regulations, which were adopted in a rather rush and the content of which has not been fully studied even by industry specialists, not to mention the general public, which is the subject of the construction of poor quality. But it is already clear that even the new Construction Law and the new construction regulations still do not provide a clear, clear indication that a supermarket cannot work if construction works are carried out on its roof. It is also unclear whether quality assurance rules for large public facilities will be sufficient if the construction supervisor visits the facility 2 to 4 times throughout the construction period. No regulatory act still reflects the requirement of victims and NGOs to control construction products in a state-level laboratory. Regulations No 156 approved at the Cabinet of Ministers on 25 March 2014, which entered into force on 1 October of this year, do not provide for any changes regarding the obligations of the State or the builder to carry out quality control of construction products. On the other hand, the current wording of the Psychologists' Act raises a number of questions, as the recommendation of the victims of Zolitumo focused on identifying a group of specialised psychologists and establishing a group of psychologists that could be quickly mobilised to provide specific psychological assistance in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U5	Mrs Lochmeles-Lunova, your time for the debate has come to an end! ( Interferences in the Hall.) How long do you still need to debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U6	I think three minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U7	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U8	A year after the tragedy of Zolitūde, it has to be established that no Latvian regulatory act still has no norm that when a fire safety alarm is heard, people should be taken away. As confirmed by the representative of VUGD on 16 October, a whole working group worked on it for a whole year, but for the time being without result. There is still an inconceivable legislative act in force, according to which the 20th-year-old Rolands Kreicmanis who suffered in Zolitūde, who was in the second fall, thank God, remained alive, but received an injury that prevents him from returning to his profession, will receive a one-time disability allowance from the State only if he has a certain disability group for at least one year. Thus, the victim has not been motivated to recover or recover for a whole year, because only on condition that he remains as incapable of work as soon after the closure of the sick leaf will he be entitled to the benefit promised by the State. I will not even talk about the ethical side of this condition, talking about our rescuers! I hope that... I'll finish... I will not tolerate the words of Daces Akule, the leader of Providus, about why the public commission failed last winter. To conclude, I hope that the Committee of Parliamentary Investigation of the Zolitude tragedy, whose work will not require any additional funds from the national budget (Obligations from the Unity of the Group.) , today will be established. I hope that work – serious and constructive work! – in this commission, all parties represented in the Saeima will delegate such people who, working in the Zolitūde tragedy committee, will be able to prove that there are things in our country where both the ruling coalition and the opposition are able to join forces to improve our laws and regulations, the state and municipal administration system so that nothing similar that happened in Zolitūde last year would happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U9	Thank you. Inguna Silverba, a Member, came up in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U10	Hello, colleagues! After the Zolitūde tragedy, almost a year ago, everyone talked about responsibility and irresponsibility in the country, about directly and indirectly responsible officials and the necessary fundamental changes so that similar events in Latvia never happen again. I am aware that the law enforcement authorities are conducting a large and large-scale investigation, but, as recognised by the State Police, it will not be able to answer all the questions related to this tragedy. During this year the Cabinet of Ministers has also taken separate steps to improve the current situation. But is that enough? Can anyone feel confident that the law is such that similar disasters can no longer happen again? What does the Pumpur Secondary School remind us of, where the suspension ceiling falls, and the 19th Middle School of Riga, where the sports hall in the wardrobe... have you dropped through rainwater into the hallway of the suspended ceiling plates? In these incidents, children were protected, but what warning do we still want? And I will return a little to history to show by this particular example how amending the laws creates an environment in which the actions that threaten society are legal and the results are tragic. As early as 2010, the State Audit Office concluded that the liquidation of the State Construction Inspection had weakened the control of the construction process in the country as a whole. And this affects the safety of every citizen. Moreover, the planned result of the economy of the state budget has not been achieved either. And the State Audit Office pointed out a significant decrease in the number of inspections at construction sites by 70 per cent, both the unregularity of inspections, and the lack of legal regulation, which does not set minimum checks at construction sites, and the lack of control of the conformity of construction products. The State Audit Office also questioned the independence of municipal building inspectors, because in cases when the construction is carried out by the municipality itself, the supervisors are also in employment legal relations with the municipality under supervision. And what did the responsible ministry do? The Ministry of Economy has repeatedly asked for an extension of all recommendations on the grounds that there is a very long process for the adoption of the Construction Law. It was initially established that it was 1 December 2011, but it continued until 1 July of this year. Is this responsible? What prevented us from drawing up the necessary laws and regulations? Insufficient capacity of ministerial staff? This specific example is a story, how the legal environment in the construction sector is changed significantly with the only justification – to save the state budget funds – as recorded in the draft law. What is more, it is almost five years to go, during which a tragedy must take place, to realise that the austerity measure previously adopted has been a mistake! Who is responsible, and how could the amendments to the laws, which intended to eliminate the State Construction Inspection, pose a threat to society? Low quality proposals, unclear or false annotations of draft laws... Who has tabled and led these amendments? We don't have the answer. That is why we support the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in order to find answers to these and many other questions. Yesterday in the program “Domburs studija” Chief of Criminal Police Gryšins pointed out that in construction processes there is inconsistency of laws and regulations, there are no clear and complete specifications, therefore, the committee of inquiry, inviting experts from the field, should evaluate the quality of development of construction regulations in relation to human safety. It is for us all, Members of the Saeima, to have an interest in understanding what system's mistakes have been made, both in the drafting of legislative amendments and in the lack of timely assessment of the impact of amendments on the work of the sector concerned. We need to look at the legislative process so that we do not have narrow interests in lawmaking, either in construction or in other areas, and to determine – at last! – each responsibility for decisions taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U11	Thank you. Member Mārtiņš Šics took part in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the creation of the Zolitude tragedy parliamentary investigation commission, not because I am still the only person found to be responsible, one year after the Zolitude tragedy, who, moreover, has been punished and, in fact, has also lost my former work, to which I had sacrificed my entire life. I ask for a vote because a special commission is needed to follow the investigation process, because the Saeima has every opportunity to ask questions to the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Justice. And confusion in the investigation procedure is not the principle of this commission. I believe that this time the parliamentary committee of inquiry is necessary for precisely the purpose for which it is intended – to examine and eliminate the circumstances which have been the subject of the investigation. In this case – not only the circumstances, the background, which caused the tragedy of Zolitūde, but also the shortcomings and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers or their absence. Those defects must be found! To date, laws and regulations related to construction have been discussed very widely and many times. But in fact, we have not spoken, and we have done nothing to improve and make effective, systemic, various types of assistance to victims of tragedy. We still fall into the trap, losing a simple humanity and logic of action. I will not repeat the question raised by Mrs Ločmel-Lunov and will not talk about the evacuation of people who have not happened and their inability to do so. I will talk about the subject that has become a very close one: for example, in Mexico, as part of an international conference of personal data protection and privacy supervisors, a resolution was adopted in 2011, aimed at national countries, on the protection of personal data in disasters and major disasters. In essence, the resolution calls on all countries to cooperate at national level with the responsible authorities and in national and national civil protection plans to discuss actions concerning personal data, their protection and use in emergency situations. The major natural disasters mentioned in this resolution are those which, by their very nature, concern... and other disasters relating to all emergencies, including the case of the Maxima supermarket. A good example of how we should also work on such international conference resolutions is the renewable materials developed and regulated by Canada... Regular up-to-date material, which is also mentioned in the introduction itself, and most importantly, that private data protection laws should not be seen as an obstacle to the exchange of necessary information, nor should it be used as an excuse for failure to act. The tragedy that took place in Zolitūde demonstrated in a very harsh and difficult way where we still have shortcomings in Latvian laws, where we have not gone and do not want to go along with the obvious world practice, based on the reasoned evidence and recommendations of international industry authorities and scientists. After the tragedy, I sent all these materials to the State Data Inspectorate, the Ombudsman of patients, the Ombudsman of Justice, the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Health. Almost a year has passed today, but none of these institutions, in particular the State Data Inspectorate, have come up with a project. I have before me a letter signed by Mrs Straujuma to the Ombudsman and also a letter from her to the Ministry of the Interior – given the tragedy of the supermarket Maxima, to make legislative changes. There are no changes! And that's why I call on us to identify... urgently change and decide how we can and need to prepare these things in legislation – about the need to change legislation to serve the spirit rather than the letter. Thank you. I call for this committee to be voted in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U13	Thank you. The next speaker is Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U14	Yes, hello, colleagues! The Union of Greens/Farmers will support the setting up of this committee of inquiry because we represent a large number of municipalities, and it is the municipalities that have the greatest interest in bringing the legislation in order in this area. We are now also representing the Ministry of Economics, which directly supervises the construction sector, and it can only be concluded that legislation in this area still requires improvements. Therefore, if this commission can really agree on productive work, then I think that the recommendations made by this commission will be ready to listen to a very large number of institutions. I'm gonna fix Mrs Lochmele-Lunova with salt. This is not a free event, because the commission will have three officials and at least one consultant, even two consultants, and the commission will pay more than 2 thousand euros per month – I will invoice it. Therefore, it would be important that any result should also be. Why am I saying that? You see, I took with me the last Saeima Investigation Commission, that is, the Latvian Krajbanka Investigation Commission, where we have nine or more... I think we worked for more than 10 Members, we had a final report on 12 pages, but unfortunately this committee also started with positions and a little game of opposition. In this commission too! Well, God does not, if one part wants to prove that the government is responsible, and the other part wants to prove that the Riga City Council is responsible, then there will certainly not be a result. Therefore, I can only wish this Commission to really find a common language at once and work productively so that such a report, which I have in my hands, is not left unread, because it is enough for one of them to be dissatisfied with what this report has written, he does not sign this report, and this report falls into one of the drawers, and the work and public funds of all these people have gone out in the air. So draw conclusions at the first meeting of your commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U15	Thank you. I closed the debate. We must therefore vote in favour of the draft decision submitted by 36 Members. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the establishment of a parliamentary investigation commission on the actions of the State of Latvia, evaluating the causes of the tragedy in Zolitūde, which took place on 21 November 2013, and the follow-up actions carried out in order to arrange regulatory acts and activities of the state administration and municipalities in order to prevent the repetition of similar tragedies, as well as actions to prevent the consequences of the tragedy”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. Thank you. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined and Members are required to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U16	Dear colleagues, Today, no registrations have been made: Valters Dambe, Ints Dālderis, Rihards Eigims, Marjana Ivanova-Jevsejeva, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Jānis Klžads, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Edgars Putra, Valdis Skujiņš, Juris Viļums, Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-11-PT12-270-U17	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
