ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U1	Good morning, colleagues! Please, take your seats! Before the Saeima meeting, I informed that we had received a very beautiful gift from the Institute of Law Research, the book “Comments on the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia”. We would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Institute for Law Research and to our colleague, Ringold Balodis, who is Chairman of the Board of this Institute. Let us begin the debate on the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima on 13 November. Before starting the discussion of the agenda for the sitting, I informed you that proposals for amendments to the agenda for the sitting had been received. The Bureau has received 15 proposals for amendments to the agenda of today's meeting. Thus, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. Members Krauze, Sergeant, Siliņš, Belēvičs, Barča, Brigmanis, Rasmanis, Mežulis, Līdaka, Andris Bērziņš, Kučinskis and Bergmanis have withdrawn their signatures to the draft decision “The invitation of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia to the European Commission on support for Latvian milk producers” (From the dep. J.Adamson: “Watch!” ) (a.k.a. Consequently, the relevant draft decision cannot be examined and should be excluded from the agenda of today's sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” to be included on the agenda of the meeting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft law “Law on Administrative Violations Procedure” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure be included on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission shall also request that the draft law “Amendments to Civil Law” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure be included on the agenda. Are Members against this amendment? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Application of the Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, the Section of the Rights of Heritage and the Rights of Cases” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Legal Commission shall request that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure be placed on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to include in the agenda the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of Property Objects of State and Local Government” drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section 39 of the Saeima’s Rules of Procedure. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Krauze, Līdaka, Sergeant, Chigāne, Lībiņa-Egne, Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Dzintars, Dombrava and Smiltēns are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia invited the European Commission to provide support to Latvian milk producers”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Agešins, Dauge, Brigmanis, Vacāns, Āboltina, Lībiņa-Egnere, Lejiņš, Cilevičs, Balodis, Gaidis Berzins and Liepiņš are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On approval of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Agešins, Dauge, Brigmanis, Vacāns, Āboltina, Lībiņa-Egnere, Balodis, Cilevičs, Dombrava, Gaidis Berzins and Liepiņš are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Agešins, Dauge, Brigmanis, Vacāns, Āboltina, Lībiņa-Egnere, Balodis, Cilevičs, Dombrava, Gaidis Berzins and Liepiņš are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the approval of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Agešins, Dauge, Vucans, Āboltina, Lībiņa-Egnere, Balodis, Dombrava, Cilevičs, Gaidis Berzins, Raudnieks and Liepiņš are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the approval of the Intergovernmental Group of the Latvian National Group of the Union”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. Members Agešins, Dauge, Brigmanis, Vacāns, Āboltina, Lībiņa-Egnere, Balodis, Cilevičs, Dombrava, Gaidis Berzins and Liepiņš are asking for the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union to be on the agenda. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The order of business has been amended. Members of the group Rūdnieks, Gaidis Berzins, Āboltiņa, Dauge, Brigmanis, Vacāns, Lībiņa-Egnere, Lejiņš, Balodis, Dombrava and Liepiņš are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On approval of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has therefore been amended. To this end, we will consider the first section of the agenda, entitled "Reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted". The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax” be transferred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cooperative Society” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Turn on the microphone for Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U2	Hello! On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be submitted to the co-responsible Commission of Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U3	Thank you. Are there any objections to this by Members? There is no objection by Members. Thus, the draft law is handed over to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as the responsible and Public Administration and Local Government Commission as the co-responsible. The Presidium of the Saeima also proposes that the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the declaration of the Law “On Transfer of Real Estate to the Public Council of the People’s Front Museum” has become null and void”. So, in the debate... Member Romuald Gamuks has applied for the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U4	President of the Saeima, colleagues! Before calling for a vote in favour of this very important draft law on the preservation of our historical heritage, I would like to say a few words about the course of its creation, in order to reject any suspicion that our Third Awakening Heritage will not be properly preserved or further developed. In 1999, as Member of the 7th Saeima, I prepared a bill on the transfer of this building to the Public Council of the People's Front Museum on the Old Town Street 13/15, so that this building would be used for the construction of the museum... In order to save the building from privatisation and to transform it into a new one. Since then, things have been different. We have gained the greatest and most support from the country in the great anniversary. For example, on the 20th anniversary of the People's Front, the Kalvitis Government gave us funds to repair the facade, but on 25th anniversary, the Straujuma Government gave us funds for reconstruction of the building and for the installation of a modern, modern exposition on three floors, which was successfully completed. So the museum is created in principle – modern, modern and interactive equipment at the performance of Jānis Mitrēvics studio, which would not be ashamed of either here or in Latvia or inviting foreign guests. However, with a large state of one and a half people that we can afford, and the collection of donations due to the lack of chronic money, to create a full museum of five, six employees who could regularly accept students and other interested persons, as well as carry out a research work that has now come to pass on the Third Awakening, the Latvian People's Front can not be ensured. Therefore, work on the museum's building and exhibition was started a year ago, as well as on the archive (we have an archive – the only preserved archives of the People's Front in the three Baltic States) as a special, separate unit for the transfer to the National History Museum. This will allow the above-mentioned objectives to be met and to develop... make this museum structure as a museum of national history as accessible as possible to the new generation and history research. Thanks to the participation and support of the Ministry of Culture, we also take steps to ensure that this museum exists, does not disappear and works in the same building for a long time. On 1 July, the government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Straujuma, adopted an information report and approved guarantees for the National History Museum of 140,000 euros to have additional money for the maintenance of this new chapter, and in the amount of 90 thousand euros – the state joint stock company “State Real Estate”, which takes over this building (it is a common practice), so as to be able to arrange everything, warm up attices and do the rest of the work. The last decision adopted by the Government is on amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers’ regulations “Regulation of the Latvian National History Museum”, where it is written: to preserve the scientific and historical integrity of the collections of the Latvian People’s Front in the historical building of the Latvian People’s Front on Old Town Street 13/15. I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U5	Thank you. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Hence, the draft law has been passed on to the Legal Commission, stating that it is responsible. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the extension of the European Cooperation State Plan Charter presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is responsible. Do Members agree? Thank you. Members agree. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes to refer the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the law “On individual (family) enterprise and farmer or fisherman’s farm” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is responsible. Are Members in favour? Members are in favour. Thank you. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the National Armed Forces” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is responsible. Do Members agree? Members agree. Thank you. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is responsible. Do Members agree? ( From the drug depot. A.Bērzins: “Accept!” ) Thank you. Members agree. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on State Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Thank you. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the United States on the Improvement of the Implementation of International Tax Obligations and the Implementation of the Law on the Implementation of Foreign Account Tax Obligations (FATCA)” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on the privatisation of land in rural areas drawn up by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Are there any objections to Members? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Thank you. Consequently, the next item on the agenda is entitled "On an own-initiative proposal". Members Krauze, Līdaka, Sergeant, Chigāne, Lībiņa-Egne, Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins, Dzintars, Dombrava and Smiltēns have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision “The Saeima of the Republic of Latvia invited the European Commission to provide support to Latvian milk producers”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima sitting? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Armands Krauze. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U6	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! In recent months, companies, and thus those working in both cities and rural areas, have been facing difficulties in a number of sectors of the economy. And the reason for these difficulties is the Russian embargo. Milk producers are the most affected in agriculture. The Latvian government has done a lot to help dairy producers – entrepreneurs can defer tax payments, can extend the time limits for EU projects, and in two ways more than 13 million have been allocated as direct support for breeding for dairy producers. However, the impact of the embargo is significant. For example, the purchase price of milk in October is only about 22 cents per kilogram, which is 25 percent lower than in July. We have taken advantage of every opportunity to help dairy producers, and that is why solidarity in Europe is also needed now. In Brussels, the word'solidarity' is quite widely used, and that is why we are now waiting for real help, not just words. In this regard, we have prepared a draft document inviting the Saeima of Latvia to provide support to Latvian milk producers to the European Commission. The dairy sector in Latvia is important both for the economy and for ensuring rural population, for example, milk production accounts for 22 percent of the structure of agricultural production. The value of production in 2013 was 262 million. More than 13 000 farms with 25 969 employees are specialised in milk production. This represents about 30 percent of all those employed in agriculture. In 2014 until the embargo, exports of dairy products from Latvia to Russia increased significantly, for example, products such as milk powder and butter exceeded even the figures of 2013 and in the eight months of 2014 the percentage of exports increased to 21 percent. Embargo affects the entire dairy sector. The Ministry of Agriculture has made preliminary calculations, assessed them and concluded that both large and small farms are affected. Based on information from the Ministry of Agriculture, losses to industry in December, from August to December, could reach more than EUR 20 million. In this context, the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and the European Commission have adopted various decisions and documents, but it is important that real aid is granted rather than money being reallocated elsewhere. For example, the outgoing European Commission decided to re-allocate 380 million additional revenue from the agricultural budget for other purposes. We are against it! The Commissioner for Agriculture, meeting with colleagues from Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland, promised that solutions would be sought, but only after the budget negotiations had been concluded. At present, it is important to call on and encourage the European Commission to grant this support at all levels. The Baltic Parliamentary Assembly has already accepted the call. The agriculture ministers of Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Finland have agreed in a joint communication and have called on the European Commission to take urgent action. We in the Saeima can also help our milk producers by encouraging the European Commission to act quickly. It is not difficult, and it is not complicated. Today we do not need to find our own budget with difficulty; we only need to vote for the "for" Latvian milk producers, "for" many thousands of rural people. I call on Members to support the call for the European Commission to provide support to Latvian milk producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima today's sitting? There is no objection. Thank you. The agenda has been amended and the draft decision has been included. On changes received by the Saeima on the agenda of today's sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared and submitted to the Saeima for consideration the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”. The Commission is asking to direct the examination of these draft laws at first reading... The Commission is therefore asking for this bill to be placed on the agenda of today's sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the agenda for Mr Rihards Eigimas's leave on 13 November this year. The Bureau of the Saeima shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request made by Mr Rihards Eigisms to grant him unpaid leave on 13 November this year. The Saeima Bureau granted this leave and you are also informed about it. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. The next item is the draft decision of the Saeima on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly. Does anyone want to report on this draft decision? You don't want to report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Does anyone want to report on this draft decision? Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Does anyone want to report on this draft decision? No one has applied for a report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian National Group of the Interparliamentary Union. Does anyone want to report? Nobody wants to report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Interparliamentary Union Latvian National Group! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union. Does anyone want to report? No one has applied for a report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean Union! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Does anyone want to report? No one has applied for a report. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Latvian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Proposals for continuing the examination of draft laws of the previous Saeima".
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U8	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U9	Mr. Latkovsky! In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure Roll, the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” submitted to the 11th Saeima. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law in the previous Saeima. Member Ainars Latkovskis on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U10	Thank you. Colleagues! The draft law shall provide the Credit Information Office with the right, at the request of the participants, to receive information from the databases referred to in the law as the data operator. Without changing its content, the Credit Information Bureau shall hand over to its members in order to ensure effective and operational compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, i.e. to carry out identification and research of the client or potential client. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for further consideration of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. In the 11th Saeima, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption was responsible for this draft law. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption? There is no objection by Members. The 12th Saeima will therefore also be responsible for the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. Please set the time for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U12	November 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U13	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is November 19. The next item is the draft law on administrative infringement proceedings. According to Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law on Administrative Violations Procedure. The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the previous Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U14	Dear colleagues, 11. On October 2, the Saeima supported the first reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Violations Procedure”. This law is intended to replace the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia adopted during the Soviet period, which has been amended more than 150 times. The draft law provides that in future we will have a codified general part, namely a common system of penalties, a common procedural order. But responsibility for administrative offences will be provided for in special laws. The draft law is supported by the Legal Commission, and both the 11th and 12th Saeima... Both Members of the 11th and 12th Saeima have expressed their support for this. Please support the continuation of the examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U15	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Law on Administrative Violations Procedure” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members not object that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible to the Legal Commission? There is no objection. The Legal Commission is therefore responsible for this draft law. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U16	1 December
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U17	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 December. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” submitted to the Saeima in the 12th Saeima. The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the previous Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Both this and the next draft law are interrelated draft laws. In particular, this draft law, as well as the next one, is necessary to replace the existing system of voluntary shared property by introducing the so-called right of construction institution, which would allow construction to be carried out only for the construction of non-residential buildings or civil engineering structures, establishing the minimum period of the right of construction, providing that the right of construction is a right of case, which is to be entered in the land register, as well as determining the consequences of termination of the right of construction. The Legal Commission has supported further progress in this draft law. Request to colleagues - to support!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U19	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” in the 12th Saeima. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have no objection that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for this directly by the Legal Commission? There is no objection. The Legal Commission is therefore responsible. Please set the time for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U20	Deadline for submission of proposals - 1 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U21	There are no other proposals. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 December. Thank you. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law submitted to the 11th Saeima “Amendments to the Law “On the Time and Application Procedure of the Entry into Force of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia of 1937, Part of the Right to Heritage and the Rights of Cases”” in the 12th Saeima. The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the previous Saeima. Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U22	Dear colleagues, As I have already mentioned, this draft law is related to the previous draft law “Amendments to the Civil Law” which has already been approved. Consequently, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I also ask for support for the further progress of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U23	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the review of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Time and Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of the Renewed Civil Law of the Republic of Latvia 1937, Rights of Heritage and Rights of Cases” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Are there any objections from Members that the Legal Commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. The Legal Commission will also be responsible for this draft law at the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U24	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U25	Thank you. There are no other proposals. So the proposals are due by 1 December of this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Legal Commission proposes to continue the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” submitted to the Saeima in the 12th Saeima. The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the previous Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U26	Dear colleagues, We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”. The draft law is designed to meet the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Protection Order. The nature of the draft law is very simple: if one Member State applies a safeguard measure and prohibits a suspected or accused person, such as to approach or communicate with the victim or witnesses, then it is very important that this prohibition be observed in other Member States too. And so this bill solves the problem. The Legal Commission examined the draft law and supported the continuation of its examination. Please support!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U27	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of continuing the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” in the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. So the draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Legal Commission was responsible for this draft law in the Saeima. Do Members have no objection that the 12th Saeima will also be responsible for this by the Legal Commission? There is no objection. The Committee on Legal Affairs will therefore also be responsible for the 12th Saeima. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U28	November 19th.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U29	So the deadline for submitting proposals is November 19th this year. In accordance with Article 39 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy proposes to continue the examination of the 11th Saeima Draft Law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property””. The previous Saeima was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. On behalf of the Commission, is Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U30	Good morning, colleagues! The beginnings of this draft law can be found already in September 2013, when it was submitted to the commissions for consideration. This draft law was adopted at first reading. Subsequently, seven proposals were tabled and adopted at second reading. This Law initially required changes, because according to the solution planned in the concept of management of state capital shares and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the newly created state administration institution – the State capital share management office – will continue to deal with privatisation of state capital shares and capital companies. Thus, in this law, which we are considering, it was necessary to make appropriate amendments to determine the transition from the current legal framework to the new one, namely, that the State Joint Stock Company “Privatisation Agency” should transfer the shares of the State’s capital transferred to privatisation by 1 January 2015. Seven proposals were tabled at second reading, which, according to the Rules of Procedure, are included in this draft law and will be moved as at first reading. Therefore, please support the continuation of the examination of the draft law at the 12th Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U31	Yeah. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the continuation of the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”” at the 12th Saeima! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 92, for - no, for - 1. So the decision has been made. The draft law will continue to be examined by the 12th Saeima. 11.The Parliament was responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are there any objections from Members that this commission will also be responsible for this draft law in the 12th Saeima? There is no objection by Members. So also the 12th Saeima is responsible for this draft law by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. And the Commission has asked for the said draft law to be declared urgent. Please vote mode! Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thus, the draft law has been declared urgent. Please determine the time for submission of proposals for second reading and also the time when the draft law is to be considered at second reading in the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U32	Colleagues! We will wait until November 24 of this year for constructive proposals to the Commission, and we will discuss the draft law at the Saeima sitting on November 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U33	So the deadline for submitting proposals is November 27, this year... (The member of the Saeima, I. Lībiņa-Egnere, spokesman: “24! ”) )... 24 November this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 27 November this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U34	Colleagues! On 3 July this year, the Saeima adopted amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. The purpose of these amendments was to limit speculation on agricultural land, to limit the fact that Latvia's land is bought out by foreigners, and these amendments to the law came into force on 1 November this year. We have found that there is an urgent need to amend the law, because under this law municipalities must set up commissions that evaluate transactions and take decisions. It is not possible to set up these commissions, because we have stipulated in law that they should include representatives of direct public administration. There are 109 municipalities in Latvia and there are no state administration institutions that could delegate representatives to all these commissions. It is a huge job, it is a huge extra expenditure and an administrative burden. In fact, at a time when transactions and transactions on agricultural land should already be assessed, the market has stopped. I therefore call on both to adopt these amendments concerning commissions set up by municipalities and to give local authorities the freedom to determine who will be in the composition of these commissions, and also to amend the law on time limits. At the moment, one month has been set, but I propose replacing the text "within one month of the date of receipt of the application, the instrument of transaction and other documents to be attached to the application" with the words "in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Administrative Procedure Act". These amendments will certainly make it possible for the commissions to be operational. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, I invite local governments to include specialists in this committee, and these could be specialists of the Latvian Rural Advisory and Education Centre, who are professionals in this field and can participate in the evaluation of the transaction. Please accept this draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against - 1, it's not. Decision adopted. The draft law has been declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a deadline for the second reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U36	If there are no objections to Members, I would also ask for this draft law to be adopted at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U37	Are there any objections to the second, final, reading of the draft law by Members without re-examination by the Commission? ( Interfaces from the drug: ‘ Yes! ’ “No!” ) So Members have reservations and we need to set a deadline for tabling proposals. ( Sounds like noise, intermediates.) So the objections... Please raise your hand to those Members who... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Please, again! Do Members have objections to the second, final, reading of the draft law without re-examination by the committee? Are there any objections? ( Between the medicines: “No, no! ” “ Yes, yes!” ) And! So Members have reservations. Please set the time for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U38	I propose that the deadline for the submission of proposals should be 10 minutes...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U39	Are there any other proposals?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U40	... and discussed at today's meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U41	There are no other proposals. We will vote for the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” is 10 minutes! Please call me! Let us vote on the proposal... Please vote in favour of the proposal that 10 minutes be the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law "Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas"! ( From the medicine: “For what?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ”) Please vote! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law is 10 minutes. And the time of consideration?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U42	It's time for today's sitting. ( From the drug depot. A.Clementjevs: “No, the sitting is over! You can't do it! Next sitting!” ) In the end!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U43	So the proposal for a debate at today's sitting is feasible if there is a break at today's sitting. ( From the drug depot. A.Klementjev: “Next sitting!” ; other Members: “In 15 minutes!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U44	In 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U45	Do colleagues have reservations that a 10-minute break is currently being announced at the sitting, so by 10.10? There is no objection. So the sitting was suspended until 10 a.m. Thank you. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U46	Colleagues have received a request from the Chair of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission to extend the suspension for another 10 minutes, and the suspension is extended until 10.20. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U47	Colleagues, please, take your seats! Let's keep the Saeima sitting! So the next item on the agenda is the draft decision “The invitation of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia to the European Commission on support to Latvian milk producers”. Does anyone want to report on this draft decision? Does anyone want to debate? No, no. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “The invitation of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia to the European Commission on support for Latvian milk producers”! Please vote mode! Commissioner Chigan, you are too late in the debate. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. Second reading: On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U48	Colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. No proposals were received within the time limit set. I call for the vote on the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas” in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation was adopted at final reading. Colleagues, I have informed you that two Members' questions have been received. Members Zarins, Urbanovičs, Agešins, Lochmele-Lunova, Tretyaka and Pimenov have submitted a question to the Minister of Transport Anria Matīss about the implementation of Rail Baltica project. This question will be referred to the Minister for a reply. The question “On the real acquirers of state-owned Citadele shares” has also been received by Members Zarina, Urbanoviča, Ribakova, Potapkina and Agešin. This question from Members is addressed to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, who is then also referred to this question for a reply. Consequently, all the items on the agenda have been dealt with and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Before reading the results of the registration, I would like to say that at the 55th anniversary, we welcome Member Kārlis Sergeant, who celebrated his birthday on November 12 (Applause). , and at the 60th anniversary - Members Silvia Simf, who celebrated this beautiful celebration on November 13. (Applause) Colleagues, there are a few more statements. I informed you that on November 18, at 12.00, the official sitting of the Saeima dedicated to the 96th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia will take place. Also, in preparation for the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we will present the audiovisual story “A Name – a Step to Understanding” as part of the Staro Riga festival. Peace’ on values that unite Europeans. Therefore, everyone is welcome to see the bright Saeima House with their families and friends from 14 to 18 November every evening from 18.00 to 23.00. Name of notification to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U50	Dear colleagues, Those who want to work in a group of Members for cooperation with the Italian Parliament call for its founding meeting right here - in the Yellow Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U51	Thank you. Name for the statement to Dzintārs Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U52	Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Immediately, five minutes after the sitting, in the Yellow Hall, we will set up a group of Members for cooperation with the Georgian Parliament. Please come to everyone interested in Georgia! ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U53	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U54	Dear colleagues, Today the meeting has not been closed: Solvita Āboltiņa... And, Ringolds Balodis... No, Aia Barch... And, Richard Amy... Roman Mežeckis... So, Arvīd Platoper... It's not, Ingun Ryken... There, Carl Sergeant... Yes, Juris Viļums... Yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-269-U55	Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
