ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U1	Dear colleagues, please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! We started the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on November 13. On the agenda is the draft decision “On the establishment of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the progress of the sale process of 75 % of the state-owned shares of Citadele Bank, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for the resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”. Andrey Elksniņš, the Member of the European Parliament, applied for the debate. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U2	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Firstly, the myth of the importance of this vote with regard to the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry must be voiced, since, according to the law of the parliamentary committees of inquiry, the existence of 34 signatures of Saeima Members on this type of initiative is already the basis for the setting up of an investigative committee. In particular, the 'no' or 'abstention' vote is, to a large extent, a vote against the parliamentary oath taken by each of you as a member of the Saeima, and thus the presumption that the parliamentary committee of inquiry for Citadele is to be set up is one of the instruments of parliamentary scrutiny used by the opposition in relation to the activities carried out by the executive power. The Commission is therefore established so that there is no dispute as to the extent and purpose of the powers of the committee of inquiry and the matters to be dealt with within that parliamentary committee of inquiry. First of all, it is a question of the progress of the sale process of the State-owned 75 per cent stake in Citadele. What do we understand with the direction of the sales process? Let us begin with the conditions under which the State invested huge amounts of money in the rescue of Parex banka, let us talk about good and bad assets, including those contained in the agreements with the European Commission on the provision of State aid and a substantial stake in Parex banka, and then also in Citadele. Therefore, all the issues that involve communication between the Latvian Government and the European Commission regarding the criteria that the Latvian State has undertaken to determine also the deadline for the sale of the bank will be considered. At the same time, we will also examine the extent to which the state of Latvia has been sufficiently careful as a caring host, postponing this issue for the last day, and what the state of Latvia has done within the European Commission to achieve the extension of the deadline set by amending the agreement with the European Commission in order to preserve the state of the banks for a longer period of time, or what the responsible officials of the state, i.e. the relevant ministerial officials and ministers, have not done to prevent this from happening. Another key issue is the sale price of the bank. Ladies and gentlemen, several coalition parties went to the elections on the basis of the principle of "how can they not stand" with statements that the "Citadeles" value is going up with every public statement... that was 74, then 90... then more than 100, and that they'll get more... The elections have passed, and the first announcement by the government (which has now been the case) is that there will now be only 74, after which the price will not depend on current shareholders at all and will depend on the value of the credit portfolio and other indicators, so that the price may even fall by EUR 10 million. One must now be said: the aforementioned parliamentary committee of inquiry is the only instrument that the state of Latvia can use for investors to make this possible reduction, which was once talked about by the Minister of Economics Vjačeslav Dombrovskis... Wouldn't really reach those 10 million, maybe no one, and the country would really get to this worst scenario! – at least the one on which you have applied your signatures. The third question will clearly be all peripetias on the terms of sale and the resignation of the board of the Privatisation Agency and, to say so, the search, and we would also very much like to hear Mr Sprdzans about both the real and the real reasons for the resignation and the political pressure that individual coalition representatives have put on the board of the Privatisation Agency. We will assess the price, we will assess what the applicants were, we will call on the ministers responsible, who were then at the time of the decision-making process, to explain the geopolitical choices and a number of other criteria, and their two-year deadlines... the prohibition on resale. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this is really an important issue. In addition, we will also assess expenditure... tasks received by PR advisory agencies to promote this sales process. We will also assess expenditure...
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U3	Mr. Elksniņš, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U4	You'll allow a minute more... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U5	Are there any objections to a one-minute additional time for Mr. Elksniņš? ( From the drug depot. A. Berzins: “Let him speak! Let him speak!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U6	We will also assess the costs to be borne by the Société Générale with regard to the progress of the sale process. We'll assess under what conditions... As one of the members of Citadele’s Board, Mrs Rubesa, has pointed out, at the proposal of the Privatisation Agency, as suggested by the Ministry of Economics, new investors such as Shefler, who have actually also been lobbying, so to speak, one of the internal groups of Unity. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the investigative commission will indeed be very interesting, very valuable in my view. It is indeed relevant to the public interest and to the investigation of the criteria included in the contract. I call on members of the coalition to allow – not as it has done in the past! – that commission of inquiry should be directed by the opposition, so that those who are now able to investigate this offence from the coalition are not covered by the practice of concealing sins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U7	In the debate, the next Member, Inguna Silverba, has applied for.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U8	Hello, dear colleagues! On the motivation to set up this commission of inquiry. The hasty, chaotic process of the sale of Citadele bank and the unclear contractual terms, the sudden replacement of officials, the same fast-track finding of reserves, the unwillingness to inform the public – these facts do not indicate that the executive has complied with the principles of public administration laid down in the Law on State Administration, that it is acting in the public interest and that it respects the principles of good administration, including disclosure to private individuals and society. Currently there is a sale agreement between the bank and it is not possible to break it. But we need to be able to answer the public question: was it in the public interest, and did the government treat taxpayers' property as a good and diligent owner? First of all, the ‘beneficial’ terms of the contract. Of course, we can judge the conditions contained in the sale contract of Citadele only on the basis of the information that the responsible officials state in the public domain. The company is indignant at the small benefit of the sale of the state bank compared to the state resources so far invested in the bank. The question is whether, as a result of this transaction, the country will even receive the EUR 74 million that has been made public. The bank’s value is significantly influenced by the quality of its credit portfolio. And, of course, the owners... before buying this bank, potential investors also got acquainted with the quality of the bank's loan portfolio, but these owners, as owners after buying the bank, do not prevent the bank's loan portfolio from being re-assessed by demanding additional provisions for risky loans. What does that mean? This merely means that Citadele’s real price will be even lower than it has now been public. Consequently, the provision of a ban on the resale of the bank's shares over a two-year period entails that the bank is likely to... that the bank will probably be purchased for its own funds without any significant investment in the Latvian economy by the investor. By accounting methods, it is possible to secure the bank's profitability with a low leverage, and as a result the bank will be bought instead of buying it, but actually bought for the funds generated by the bank itself. The replacement of officials. There was a lot of uncertainty over the whole sale process of Citadele. However, I doubt that it would be possible in democratic countries a few minutes before the parliamentary vote on the approval of a new government to sign such an important treaty, and in a situation where the authorities and members of the board representing the seller's side refuse to do so... in fact they resign. The chairman of the board and member of the board of the Privatisation Agency, who actively defended the “Citadele” transaction, helped the Prime Minister to explain the nature of the transaction and its buyers in public discussions, suddenly announces and calls for the signing of the contract and to continue negotiations on the sale of the bank, but no one heard them. Moreover, in these circumstances, the contract is not signed by the government, taking due responsibility for the transaction, but by a person who has been found under the urgency regime, appointing a new board member for the Privatisation Agency. I will not talk at all about whether the appointment of such a board member is in line with the current rules and how it is in line with the procedure for selecting candidates for the positions of state and council members in capital companies, or with the recently approved Public Person's Shares and Corporate Governance Act, as well as the principles of good practice in corporate governance. This law, which is probably adopted once again to assure our necessary partners in the OECD that there are good principles for the management of capital shares in this country, is written on paper, but at once, on the first deals, actually does not work in life. And now it's about not informing the public. Once again, the company has not had the opportunity to get acquainted with all the necessary information to understand and evaluate the terms of this transaction, as well as to understand the real reasons for the departure of the board of the Privatisation Agency. It is so convenient and customary to classify for service purposes any information about which the company may ask additional questions. The Prime Minister took the view that declassification of documents should be assessed in the light of the obligations vis-à-vis investors and third parties with whom confidentiality contracts have been concluded. Knowing the public interest in this issue, it is not clear why these issues were not discussed with the parties and were not agreed during the preparation of the contract. I call on the ministers of the economy to act responsibly and urgently to achieve the secrecy of documents. We support the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to reveal the backstages of the sale of Citadele bank and to inform the public of the feasibility and economic usefulness of the sale of the bank to the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U9	Thank you. Member Kārlis Šadurskis took part in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U10	President-in-Office. Dear colleagues, Indeed, Article 26 of the Satversme provides that if at least one third of the members of the Saeima request the convocation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, it must be convened. In this respect, Mr Elksniņš is absolutely right. If we voted against this commission today, then in fact we would violate the Constitution. Next, Mr Elksniņš overstated, talking about parliamentary control and guarantees that this commission could bring something good. Statistics show that if I have rightly counted that until now, between the 5th and the 11th Saeima, there have been 19 parliamentary committees of inquiry, all of which have ended without the expected result. The only result has been the spent taxpayers' money and the work of consultants. At first there were four five committees of inquiry – five, six and seven at the Saeima, but then, as Members say, they understood the low productivity of this event, and the rest of the Saeima were one or two. Well, we already have two weeks. So we work well, and really the opposition... promised that it would indeed be constructive in this Saeima, and we see an excellently constructive opposition. I would like to help the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, there are other constructive working methods: as we have seen today from the side of the SAA, questions to the Prime Minister about the same 'Citadeli'; can create a shadow office (although it is difficult), can submit a bill (it is also difficult), but parliamentary committees are a wonderful way of focusing on themselves and working. Of course, it is also very important to convene an extraordinary sitting, not to put this issue in a regular sitting (now it is additional publicity). And I feel that the opposition is really constructive and can work well. I do not, however, suspect that if the sale of Citadele were to involve not US capital but Russian capital (inter-sentences of the Members of the Group.) ... Well, you see that colleagues already know what I'm going to say next! ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.) ... then there would be no such parliamentary committee of inquiry. But, right, I have the hope that maybe this commission will not be as useless as everyone else, and I am looking at Mrs.Silverba, because as a board member of Parex banka and as Head of State Audit Office she knew the situation in the bank very well. I had the opportunity to listen to the State Audit Office report on “Citadeles”... on the takeover of Parex banka. The report was devastating and amazing. I was hoping there would be a lot, a lot of criminal proceedings in this regard, but there was no one. Well, probably, if Mrs Silver is to lead this commission, then we can expect very good results. Good luck! ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U11	Thank you. Andrey Elksniņš, the Member of the debate, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U12	Dear colleagues, Well, first of all, you have to turn to Mr. Shadursky individually and tell him one such little paron: “Lies short legs.” And you're a liar! ( The Unity of the Group.) At least to a large extent, you are not telling the truth. I'll tell you why. First of all, the parliamentary committee of inquiry – as well as the parliamentary questions, as well as the parliamentary requests! – according to Karl Dishler's ideas and vision, it is one of the forms of parliamentary scrutiny that Parliament implements over the Cabinet of Ministers. I fully understand you. You are the political party and you represent the political force that makes up the Cabinet. Thus, parliamentary oversight over the Cabinet as such is not de facto necessary for you. And that's your horse! Regarding past experience. I have been in the last term in two committees of inquiry – the Latvian Krajbanka Kraha Investigation Commission and the Commission of Investigation related to the administration and privatisation of Ķemeri sanatorium. ( From the drug depot. S. Apple: “And results?” ) Question: "Who led this investigation commission?" The Latvian Krajbanka Kraha Investigation Commission was led by Lāčrupis, a member of the Unity, who was specially introduced into that commission and torpedeed any initiative that the opposition led to investigate the conditions. You also supported a position representative from the National Association, Mr Stalta, who was also investigating the situation of the Ķemeri sanatorium. With regard to these questions, it is a total foolishness that you are now criticising the opposition – that it is another way to prove something! For the money. Your same inserts in these investigation commissions have also received these salaries, both for the presidents, for the secretaries and for the rest of the... On suspicion of geopolitical choices... Can I ask for another minute?
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U13	Do Members agree? ( From the hall: “Yes, yes! ” ; dep. K. Šadurskis: “Let me talk!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U14	The suspicion of geopolitical interest and progress. In the summer of 2013, SASKĀJA initiated a draft law, signed by three current and previous government ministers – Vējonis, Augulis and also Dūklavs. The initiative was that if the State were to sell the shares of the state-owned bank Citadele, it would have to adopt a separate draft law to ensure that the process was open, understandable and that the main criterion was that the bank should be left to the State. That was the initiative, and we voted in favour of it. This draft law is still in the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. What does Unity do with that geopolitical? One wing of the Unity extends Shefler and tries to sell him, while the other wing of the Unity extends Ripplewood and tries to agree with them on the transparency of the transaction and the bank's return simply for the value of the bank. You yourself work with corruption schemes (From the hall depot. A. Lokutov: “Well, well, well!” ; the inter-operable names of the Members of the Group.) and look to the right and to the left, trying to show who is then really guilty. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U15	Thank you. In the next debate, Ms Inguna Silverba, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U16	I understand that lying from this platform is probably a common practice. ( The Unity of the Group.) I am sorry that I had to come here for the second time, but I have to correct what Mr Shadurski said. I have never led Parex banka, I have never been a member of this bank's board! ( From the drug depot. A.Latkovsky: “Who were you there?” ) It's a verb so that this information can stay there... that the information on the stenogram is true. And the second. You too know very well, Mr Shadursky, that the State Audit Office has never had the right to be... to work as a law enforcement institution, to encourage some criminal proceedings, to direct cases, to search for the perpetrators, to refer the case to the court and so on. You are very aware of this, and so I am asked simply not to confuse the functions that the State Audit Office has with those that are law enforcement agencies. And these are definitely the same laws that you have adopted here in Parliament. Thank you. ( Fractional NSL and fractional circles.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U17	Thank you. The next speaker is Member Ilmārs Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U18	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I am not a member of any previous speaker's style, but here is a great opportunity to throw the camouflage to each other in a very witty manner, while supporting the creation of this commission. I would like to say one thing that should, however, focus on creating this commission and which would be useful for all of us. That is, it is a question that has already been voiced here a little while ago – how active and timely we, Latvia, were in negotiations with the European Commission in the interests of Latvia. Because the question of how beneficial it is for us to sell this bank is, in my view, not particularly decisive at the moment. Nothing more beneficial than selling it! Perhaps there is only a question – who will be sold, and the fight was known about it. But now the rules are being dictated by global investors. We play, countries play according to their rules and also lose. I recall these arguments on urgency and on secrecy, which, of course, was in this case. And those arguments were: agreement with the European Commission, such rules or a good tone are in the business environment, and if we do not, they will go away and we will not have investors. At present, there may be more intellectual and academic discussion in the world about the fact that global investors dictate everything – laws, virtues, lifestyles and mass consumption for a citizen. And we play under these rules. So I think I could save the witty sayings for each other here, but I would like to wish this Commission really to focus on how actively we were negotiating with the European Commission and what we could have changed there. According to informal information, I would say: we were extremely inactive! But my information is informal, and I call on the Commission to examine and draw useful conclusions for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U19	Thank you. The next speaker is Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U20	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I call on you not to argue on this matter. Of course, the demand in society for an understanding of what happened to this transaction and why is it quite high, so I believe, for my part, that when this process was, some secrecy had to be observed (it has a very direct correlation with the price, and I am ready to then explain how and why). But when the transaction is completed, it is necessary – I also believe, of course, that it is necessary! – take full account of what was done and why. Therefore, the creation of a commission, if there is such a request, I am in favour – and not just because it is or is not contrary to the Constitution. I only have two practical recommendations. The first is this: I invite colleagues to look at this process much more broadly than at this particular transaction – look at all their history since the adoption of Parex banka in 2009. Because if you do not understand this context, you will spend time to analyse this particular transaction, and then after a year or two more commissions will not be quite convenient. And the second. As regards the management of the Commission, to really dispel, let us say, some concerns or criticisms about the fact that, here, Members of the coalition will be appointed in order to carry out some sort of sabotage, I really also have a call, like Mr Šadurska, to appoint, if, of course, Mrs Silverba has no objections, to the head of the Commission, Mrs Silverba, mainly in the light of her previous work experience in the State Audit Office. In my opinion, there is really good work experience to investigate this matter, so that no one has any doubt about any dirty game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U21	Thank you. The next speaker – Member Kārlis Šadurskis... ( From the hall: “Sergeant! ” ) Next speaker – Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U22	Yes, hello, colleagues! I, like Mr. Elksniņš, had the honour of being on the Latvian Krajbanka Kraha Investigation Commission, and at that time I was in opposition; then we really had a great desire to do something about that committee. But I can also support what Mr Elksniņš said: Mr Lāčplēsis really was, I say, a high-pilot bureaucrat, who taught very well, say so, simulate action, doing nothing. ( From the drug depot. A.Elksniņš: “For money!” ) But, well, for money... money... But it has to be said that the biggest failure of this commission was that the State has a Credit Institutions Act and some other laws related to this area, and this legislation did not allow commission staff and Members to obtain meaningful, concrete information. And when she came to us like Mrs. Krumane, who was the biggest “snatcher” of the Latvian Krajbanka, she came, sat down, put her foot on her leg and said: “You know, I am not an official for two weeks now, I have no approach to the country’s secrets, and I will not tell you anything.” And this whole story came to an end, even though we had a prosecutor in every commission, and indeed we hoped to hear something there, but no one wanted to tell us. Well, logically, we got quite general information. Mr Lāčplēsis wrote what I already showed here in the last sitting – a conclusion on 12 pages, which one Member did not sign (I would not call it because then we will have a hearing), but only because I was allowed to write one page – my specific objections, which I have against this conclusion. Well, in any case, this conclusion remained in the Saeima archives – unpublished, so to speak, intact. It is true that if this committee set up to investigate the sale of Citadele bank wants to achieve some result, then it is not necessary to try to get to some sensitive data, because too... It would be necessary for all the members of the Commission to really have the permission of national secrecy if they wanted to know something confidential and really focus on how actively we were in order to be able to change these terms of sale of the bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U23	Thank you. Name to Member Kārlis Shadurskis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U24	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to abuse the time of the sitting, I came to the table just to make a sincere apologies to Mrs Silver, because I really only speak in general... Well, I didn't know how you owned Parex... that you were not really a member of the board, but you were Vice-President on client credit issues, which is probably higher than the board member. I am very sorry if I am wrong again! ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.) And, Mrs Silver, I repeat my suggestion: you have to run this commission because... I hope I'm not wrong again, but you were at the government sitting where Parex Bank was bought for 2 lats, and I understand you didn't mind. You really have a lot of information about this transaction and about these things from the very beginning. You will be a very good leader for this commission. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U25	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U26	Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry on Citadele is absolutely necessary, and I will immediately explain why. First of all, as you know, the public is carefully told that this transaction has taken place in the public and public interest. There has been no real chance of making sure of this. All the facts show the opposite. Thus, a very specific sale procedure is first established, with one specially read-out buyer placed in an exclusive position. And this one, exclusively read, buyer is given an opportunity to buy this bank at a very low price, because he has been exclusively read and can dictate government conditions. A very similar scheme, as was also sold out on the commercial part of the Mortgage and Land Bank. Similarly, a precise scheme of this kind was established (from the drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “Criminal!” ), in which two buyers who can buy the bank’s shares are in an exclusive position. They can “cut their hands out”, but the government can only say: sorry, but we could not do anything better in this situation! We also paid 25 million lats for the possibility of selling Scandinavian banks through cheap Mortgage and Land Bank shares. If we're talking more about Citadel... So if such a buyer is found, then what we, the general public, say: “You know, it’s very right. This must be done because it involves geopolitical risks. In this way, we will hand the banks in their right hands." All right, it is really very important that this transaction is carried out geographically here. We fully agree, and we also stand up for it. But what do we hear next? As soon as the transaction is concluded, it is suddenly announced: these buyers argue that they will not be able to sell these shares and that they will have to wait more than two years. Colleagues, then what's going on here? All this clearly begins to indicate that this is actually a deal between intermediaries and that these real buyers may be located somewhere else. And then can really come these geopolitical risks, and it also happens that you are now simply lying to the public. Because how else to explain this negative opinion of the State Chancellery, how to explain that members of the Council... Members of the board of the Privatisation Agency refuse to sign this transaction at all? Why does this happen, and what does the government do at this time? The government acts as classic shadow business money launderers (The drug depot. A. Elksniņš: “Reder!” ) (a.k.a. They shall appoint, on a rapid basis, the Presidents who shall be required to sign this document. It's a classic way of tax fraudsters and shadow economics working: they appoint a ziggest president, they make them sign up to some business... documents about your transaction and then says, “It’s okay!” And all this has happened at the moment with the Citadele Bank! You mentioned, Mr Shadursky, that the commission... the parliamentary committee of inquiry does not need other instruments. There are indeed other instruments, and we tried to use them. There are a number of questions that we have asked the Prime Minister, but none of them she has come to answer. She avoided the last question, even in violation of the law, – she answered nothing at all. And the last question was precisely about this geopolitical choice. In this situation, when we know that this bank will be sold and sold by God only knows who, the Prime Minister still believes that this transaction is carried out in the interests of the state and is not speculative? Just speculative! And after two years, will these geopolitical risks no longer be important for the Latvian state? She could not answer that question at all. So there's a basis for such a commission. Go on. On the efficiency of the Investigation Commission. Two basic things that have changed. Why does such a commission have the potential to be productive? The first thing is that there is now an opposition, not a single party, but... There are parties in balance: there are three parties in the coalition, three parties in the opposition. This means that in the Commission of Inquiry, the coalition, the government parties will not be able to dictate their conditions and will be a balance. And if at least one of the representatives of the government's parties speaks with a conscience, then this commission can be very effective. ( From the drug depot. K. Šadurskis intersorpts.) The other thing. It is very important that thanks to the work of the Latvian Krajbanka Kraha Investigation Commission, this has been achieved (From the deposit of the hall. E.Smilten: “What has been achieved?” ) that legislative amendments have been made. And I will remind you of this: now the parliamentary committee of inquiry has the right to work with financial documents, with those documents that were previously denied it. And why did the Latvian Krajbanka Kraha Investigation Commission fail? One of the reasons... And why was I the one who did not sign this report? Because I didn't want that commission to end. Now it can be restored. And if there is such a political will, you can find out the real reasons for the Krajbanka Kraha in Latvia, and it will become clear to everyone why you are hiding it! ( From a faction’s rank, Unity: “Time! Time is up!” ) That is why, my fellow Members, I am calling for support at least for this Commission and for it to be taken out into clean waters of what has actually happened to Citadele. I invite you to support it! ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U27	Thank you. Mr Adamson, the Member, spoke in the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U28	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, First. As regards the committees of inquiry and the need for them to function, the work of the previous commissions was criticised here. Yes, there is certainly one who deserves this criticism. But while working in various commissions, including the committee of inquiry, I have long come to the conclusion that if Members agree and are a common goal, then the committee of inquiry – anyone! – much can be achieved. Next. There's a lot of talking about the need... on whether Parex banka could or could not be taken over, on the funds invested... Talking to a simple society, which is mostly Mr Shadursky, unlike you! – does not focus on the macro- and micro-economics, but is usually used to calculating the money that is in the pocket, it must be said that it is very simple for them: one and a half billion is invested in saving Parex. Here we are talking about “Citadeles” sale – 74... But it is not the final amount, will be fixed at 50. Then we count profits... and to have even 100 million euros, but its relationship is not business! In Latvia, I have seen many different criminal, organized schemes for tax laundering, banking and so on, but I have never thought about such schemes, such as the one in this case. The issue of security is very often called up: you see, we need a strategic investor outside the ocean. But, you see, there's a coincidence here, too, that one of these potential investors has been tried for corruption for some reason. The other... The closest relatives of a potential investor... Other information: Listed pursuant to paragraph 15 of resolution 1970 (Travel Ban). When we talk about security and what its bank is then sold, I would remind you that one of the Russian oligarchs had long been willing to buy this bank, but could not agree on the price. And now, you see, once again, such strange coincidences: at the moment when the Privatisation Agency resigns in practically full composition, when a contract on the sale of Citadele bank has to be signed, the same former oligarch, who wanted to buy this bank long ago, it is quite accidentally located in Latvia! Is he, in fact, accidentally present here or has any interest in it? The previous ruling coalition was the so-called Anti-Olygric Coalition. But maybe you would look, Mr. Shadursky, that one of the oligarchs (but he who is not by the sea!) for no reason was the “engine” that “flagged” all these schemes. ( From the drug depot. S. Aboltiņa: “Who?” ) I call for support for the establishment of this committee of inquiry and also for the Members who will work there to work very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U29	Thank you. That concludes the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the establishment of a parliamentary committee on the state-owned sale process of 75% of Citadele’s shares, the criteria for setting the sale price and the deadline for resale ban, the terms of the share sale agreement, expenses for sales consultants and public relations services in the sale process”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the decision has been made. Before we finish the Saeima sitting, we need to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name for the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U30	Good afternoon, honourable Members! At 11.30 a.m., the Saeima Bureau and the Fraces Council will talk about the committees of inquiry, the delegation of the number of representatives from each political group. The statement that you received referred to the Zolitūde tragedy investigation commission. I would also ask for a second decision to be added, which we voted in favour of the report on the investigation of the sale of Citadele bank. Let us decide on the two commissions in one joint meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U31	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U32	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Guntis Belēvičs, Ints Dālderis, Rihards Eigims, Arvīds Platopers and Mārtiņš Šics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2014-11-13-PT12-271-U33	Thank you. So I closed the sitting.
