ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u1	The next item is the debate on the application of the law of 28 December 2019 to act against domestic violence. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u2	Here are the figures: 2017, 143; 2018, 123; 2019, 153; 2020, 102; 2021, 113... and 4 January 2022, 3. This litany, Mr. Keeper of Seals, is the litany of dead women, the litany of murdered women, killed, burned alive, killed coldly, choked or beaten. This litany is the litany of horror. This litany is the litany of shame. This litany is the litany of our impotence. [[Mr Eric Dupond-Moretti, Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, shows a graph]] Colleagues, as long as there is a woman victim of femicide, we will have to fight; As long as he remains a woman victim of violence, we will have to consider that we have failed. Because yes, we failed. Communication, on the other hand, did not fail; public indignation, however, did not fail; The ribbons worn proudly on the back of our jackets, they did not fail. But courage is not the word, Mr. keeper of seals: courage is action. And it was the courage of the action that guided us here in this assembly, ladies and gentlemen, when in December 2019, I unanimously passed the law that generalizes the anti-approximation bracelet, which reinforces the protection orders by inserting in the law a maximum period of six days to decide, at the time against the Government's opinion – in a time, Mr.Seal Guard, where you were still in a lawyer's dress. We have made the anti-approximation bracelet, from the phase of the protection order, i.e. before the move to the act, a powerful tool of protection. This law, an initiative of the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Republican Group, is our pride. [[The keeper of the seals shows the same graph]] That was two years ago. Since then, 218 women have died under the same conditions as before. Should we get used to these dramas? Should we get used to this macabre litany? Is this an insurmountable fatality for a great country like France? A cowardice awaits us: habituation, whether it is the habituation of dramas, the habituation of extreme violence or the habituation of dead women. This habit, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, Madam Delegate Minister responsible for Citizenship, should be able to hold your attention at least a few moments. For as long as there remains a woman murdered because she is a woman, we should live insomnia, being those who know that not everything is done to eradicate this scourge. I don't know what's going on with you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, but I sometimes get bad sleep. In the face of 637 women who have been murdered since 2017, self-satisfaction has no place, nor the agitation you have shown in the Government bench for the past few years. Keep your nerves, Mr. Keeper of Seals, when we have to deal with such an important issue, and keep a little dignity in this parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u3	The minister's attitude is indecent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u4	[[Exclaims]] Can we say that everything is done to protect women in our country? In the face of these 637 dead women, can you brandish a piece of paper as proudly as you have done for the past few days, Mr. Keeper of Seals?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u5	It's forbidden in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u6	Respect for parliamentary work!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u7	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, on 7 December we sent a letter to you, to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of the Interior in order to prepare seriously this screening session, in which we asked thirty precise, factual and thorough questions: how many anti-approach bracelets (BAR) are actually available? How many were requested under a protection order? How many refusals to carry him have been transmitted to the Public Prosecutor's Office and, as a result of these refusals, how many pretrial detentions have been requested by the latter? Which jurisdictions have issued the most and how many have been withdrawn at the request of the victim? How many seriously dangerous telephones were handed over to the victims and returned by them before the end of the delivery? How often is it used on average by a victim? With regard to the prohibition of the possession of weapons by the protection order, how many of them imposed it? What are the numbers of weapons covered by these orders and how many have actually been recovered by the State? What service executes the judgement on the prohibition of weapons, and how do they organize their recovery and storage? Does the person subject to this prohibition subsequently recover his weapon? With regard to the centres for the treatment of perpetrators of domestic violence, we asked what the overall budget for these centres was, on what mission, programme and action, as well as the average budget for each of them. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, thirty specific questions. And if I call them back here, it is because you have deigned to send us an answer today... at nineteen forty-two, less than two hours before our debate. I don't know if that's your idea of respecting parliamentary work, but we don't care about it. Both parliamentary work and protection measures for women victims of violence deserve a little better than dealing with it at the last minute. Let me tell you that by deaning to answer so many questions not in the month preceding this debate, but a few dozen minutes before, you demonstrate that you are taking national representation for an assembly of fools. And national representation doesn't like being taken for a fool. We are here to control you, there to go beyond your communication operations, there to assess what is being done concretely and not just what is being communicated; Yes, while 113 women were murdered last year, we're here to hold you to account. I begin with the use of the anti-approximation bracelet: in your last minute reply, you indicate that only twelve of these bracelets are active under the protection orders – twelve, while 210,000 women are estimated to be victims of violence over a single year in our country. I don't think there's anything to make up for, either yesterday or tonight. Let's say the way they are: it's derisory and you're very far from being up to it. As for housing, our law provides for the establishment of a steering committee to follow two arrangements under section 15 of the Act. The Government had deigned to issue a decree of a few lines one year after the enactment of the law to establish the committee, and it had taken two years for it finally to agree to establish it, when housing was such an essential subject. Your housing college told me, just a few days ago, strangely just before this debate, that it was finally going to set up this steering committee. [[Mr. Keeper of the Seals makes a sign of denial]] As for the budget for treatment centres for perpetrators of domestic violence, among the measures announced pompously at the end of the Grenelle, in September 2019, is the opening of two reception centres per region for perpetrators of violence. You write to me in your reply that you will find it hard to open one per region, which is enough to make you proud, even adding that the budget dedicated to the opening of twelve centers – stop pifing and typing on your desk, Mr. Keeper of Seals, listen calmly to what a member of the nation has to say to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u8	But read my answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u9	Keep calm, and you will see that it will be much easier for you as for me to debate. You indicate in your reply that you intend to spend 936000 euros on the opening of these twelve centres over a year while, in the preceding line, you yourself specify that it is necessary to count around 156000 euros in order to operate a single reception centre, double 936000 euros divided by twelve. The amounts currently allocated therefore represent barely half of the budget needed to operate these centres, you will agree. Finally, on the removal of the weapon, still in your last-minute mail, you indicate that 18% of family judges "always" decide on the withdrawal of arms and that 56% decide "sometimes". Forgive me, but probably I'm not smart enough to understand what can justify "sometimes" when it comes to removing a weapon from a violent man. You say one of the parties has to ask for it. That's not true. You completely ignore the law that we have voted for: it is for the magistrate to ask the parties to take the necessary measures himself, including the removal of the weapon. How can we now see that a major proportion of men who commit domestic violence retain the right to carry a weapon? Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we're late.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u10	Mr. Pradieu doesn't know his file!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u11	You're late – but maybe if you listened a little less to what your advisor is breathing at you, you'd listen to me more. The new stage, which will truly revolutionize the protection of women, will be the creation of a specialized court, entirely dedicated to the treatment of domestic violence, with judges with civil and criminal powers and able to judge quickly and strongly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u12	We'll have to close, Mr. Pradie.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u13	[[Applause on the benches of the LR and GDR groups. – Mrs Claudia Rouaux also applauds]] I'm coming, Mr. President. This is the stage that the Spaniards have taken, which you have not had, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, the courage to do, and which we wish to cross. I conclude by recalling, ladies and gentlemen, that France is a great country. And a great country does not get used to the litany of dead women, a great country ceases to gargarize, palabrer and communicate, a great country acts: it leads the battle for women and children, and it wins it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u14	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u15	The Act of 28 December 2019 to act against domestic violence represents an important step forward in strengthening the protection of victims in our country. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group welcomes the trans-party consensus on this law. Last year, 113 women were killed in France by their spouse or former spouse and three femicides were registered on the only day of January 1, 2022. This sad news illustrates the need to act against such violence. In keeping with our commitment to combat domestic and domestic violence, our group welcomed the bill presented in 2019. Combating violence against women has been at the heart of the priorities of the majority since the beginning of the legislature; This is evidenced by the Grenelle against domestic violence held in autumn 2019 and the law of 30 July 2020 to protect victims of domestic violence. These measures must contribute to a change in attitudes in our society: we need to be made more aware of the issue of domestic violence because it is essential that the victims have confidence in the institutions and that they have close contacts. This is a priority objective because only 3% of victims of domestic violence filed complaints in 2020. The accessibility of victim-care agencies, as well as their confidence in our institutions, remain important projects. In this regard, I welcome the many local initiatives that are being taken, for example in my department of Pas-de-Calais, which are very affected by the phenomenon of domestic violence: awareness-raising activities are increasing there, for example last November, in cooperation with the network to combat domestic violence and the parental network 62. These actions are being carried out in the context of an unprecedented health crisis, in which violence within families has increased and intensified. According to the Inter-Ministerial Mission for the Protection of Women from Violence and the Fight against Trafficking in Human Beings (MIPROF), more than 44,000 calls were received by the victim listening services during the first confinement. Domestic violence increased by 10 per cent in 2020. According to the Ministry of the Interior, 87% of the 160,000 victims of such violence in 2020 were women. These findings underline the need for better protection of victims. In this context, the adoption of the regulatory measures provided for in the Act of 28 December 2019 is good news, in that they enable the devices it contains to be operational, designed to reduce domestic and domestic violence. The protection of victims is one of the primary objectives of the Act. As such, the anti-approximation bracelet is one of the most important measures introduced by the text. This tool is used to verify compliance with a ban on getting closer to the victim and responds to requests from magistrates and associations. However, it will be necessary to assess the effectiveness of the anti-approach bracelet with regard to the prevention of serious violence and taking into account the expectations of the victims. Let us also remember the need for BAR-bearers to have a home, which is rarely the case. The Act of 28 December 2019 also provides for the Government to submit to Parliament, within three years of its promulgation, a report on the possibility for the judge to define a minimum distance that the convicted person will have to observe vis-à-vis his victim, the observance of this prohibition being carried out with the help of the anti-approximation bracelet. As part of the evaluation of this legislation, we would like to know whether the preparation of this report has begun and whether there are any initial data to assess the effectiveness of this new tool. The definition of a six-day period for the issuance of a protection order by the Family Court is a second provision aimed at improving the protection of victims. The aim here is to take urgent measures to protect the victim without waiting for a decision to file a complaint, the definition of a time limit by law to speed up proceedings. However, in the context of the intensification and increase of domestic violence since the start of the health crisis, the question arises of the timeliness of such cases and of the capacity of institutions to respond rapidly to a growing number of cases. Thirdly, housing is a problem faced by many victims, forced to flee their violent spouses. The Act introduced two experiments aimed at facilitating access to housing for victims: financial assistance for rehousing, and the possibility for housing organizations with moderate rent to rent housing to bodies intended to sublease it to victims of domestic or domestic violence. Pending the submission of the Government's report on these experiments, it would be useful for the national representation to have the first information on their establishment and use by victims. Leaving your home is a difficult choice: that is why the question of adaptation and improvement of the devices must be asked before their potential sustainability.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u16	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u17	To go further, we must also ask ourselves about the impact of this law on the protection of particularly vulnerable victims, such as persons with disabilities, non-French-speaking women, or LGBT people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u18	Your time has expired, Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u19	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Protection measures must be accessible to as many victims as possible, in order to reduce femicides and domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u20	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u21	On the second day of the year 2022, we already deplored three femicides in our country; three women killed under the blows of their spouse or ex-spouse. In 2021, 113 of them died, leaving 135 orphans behind, some 40 of whom had witnessed the murder of their mother. How long, despite the progress and the texts, is this going to last? It has to stop! We need to be able to move all the lines! It's a global plan we need. We need EUR 1 billion and a quinquennium fully invested in this issue, in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way. I repeat, the femicides have rendered 135 orphaned children, some 40 of whom had witnessed the murder of their mother, and some of whom – it is important to know – are still not taken care of. This is the case for the children of Chahinez Daoud, for example, who, six months later, have still not seen a psychologist. I would add that the issue of femicides must go hand in hand with the issue of domestic violence. Since the law of 28 December 2019, some progress has been made in protecting victims of such violence. However, important collective challenges remain. I insist, we need a quinquennium to move the lines, reverse the table, change the paradigm. None of the women we meet, none of the associations that support these families can bear to listen to our communications and then, each year, hear the litany of the macabre situation we are in. We have to reverse the table and follow the Spanish model, which has proved its worth. France must study the good practices, the good examples, which, moreover, do not date from yesterday and which can help us move forward. According to a 2020 High Council study on equality between women and men, the risk of a complaint actually filed being closed was still 80%. The judicial response must therefore be more appropriate, in order to put an end, once and for all, to the feeling of impunity of the aggressors. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] It is incomprehensible that court decisions prohibiting perpetrators of violence from approaching their abusive spouse allow them, in parallel, to visit their children, on the pretext that we still hear today, that they are good fathers. I say it again here in the National Assembly: a violent man is not a good father! This idea must cease and the decisions of the magistrates must no longer include the custody of children or the public visits imposed on children, especially when their father killed their mother. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you know my commitment to these issues, we have had the opportunity to talk about them: these are things that are no longer audible, acceptable. For children, magistrates must change their paradigm. In this regard, the request of the associations is very clear: to guarantee the principle suspension of the visiting and accommodation rights of the violent spouse of his or her children and the withdrawal of his or her parental authority in the event of a serious crime, such as the murder of their mother. We had tabled amendments to that effect when we considered the bill by Annick Billon to protect young minors from sexual crimes. With regard to the protection order, although the time limits had been shortened, only two out of three applicants were assigned by the judge to family cases. If the law of 28 December 2019 insists on the possibility, for women and their children who are victims of domestic violence, of finding refuge in emergency accommodation, how many have actually been made available to them in a context of saturation of the supply of housing? Those who exist are often inadequate and many women are staying at the hotel with their children, which sometimes prompts them to refuse this option. As for the bracelets, where are we?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u22	We're 250!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u23	Exactly! Finally, it is on the follow-up of victims and perpetrators that we sin. As we know, one third of the femicides committed last year were committed by persons known to the police for acts of violence. And many victims had already filed a complaint, or tried to do so: I am obviously thinking of Shahinez. The physical protection of victims needs to be improved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u24	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u25	I'll finish it, Mr. President. I know that these issues are at the heart of your commitment, minister, but we need to go further; We have to flip the table.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u26	Your time's up.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u27	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches as well as on several LR benches]] During the next quinquennium, we parliamentarians must move the lines and manage to mobilise France by following the Spanish model.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u28	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u29	First of all, allow me to react to previous interventions. I understand you, ladies and gentlemen, we are all deeply affected by what is happening to certain women in France: we have all been fighting this fight for years, depending on the length of our political commitment. But, thanks to systematically trying to overwhelm the Government, we forget that there is only one responsible: the one who strikes, the one who rapes, the one who kills:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u30	It's unacceptable to hear such a thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u31	...the man who attacks his wife. It's not the police, it's not justice, it's not anyone else.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u32	It's also the patriarchy that kills!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u33	Let us not take away an ounce of responsibility from these individuals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u34	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u35	I'd like to wish you a beautiful and happy year, but it's not. At the beginning of the year, France is already crying out for three women. As of January 4, we already deplore three femicides. Domestic violence is a scourge of our society that our majority has been fighting since the beginning of this quinquennium. The Grenelle against domestic violence has made it possible to find solutions close to the ground to help the victims, to remind the perpetrators of the law, to remind the seriousness of the facts, and to urge the witnesses to speak. As you know, justice occupies a central position in the fight against domestic violence: this is what the law of 28 December 2019, defended by our colleague Aurélien Pradié, reaffirmed. The numerous provisions of the Act have made it possible to exclude the violent spouse, whether it is the attribution of the enjoyment of the family home to the victims, the prohibition for the alleged violent spouse to visit certain places that the victim usually frequents, the modulation of the right of access and accommodation, the placement under electronic anti-approachement device, or the exclusion of family mediation when violence is alleged, and no longer committed. But this law is not an isolated text in the fight against violence against women. The Law of 23 November 2018 on Housing, Planning and Digital Development has in fact made a major development in the protection of victims of domestic violence, by providing that the departure of a victim's housing causes the solidarity between tenants to cease, thus allowing him to no longer have to pay his share of rent. Let us also mention the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for the justice system, which has created the possibility to file an online complaint for acts of violence and which has extended the possibilities for mobile electronic surveillance of convicted persons for domestic violence. Finally, the Law of 30 July 2020 on the Protection of Victims of Domestic Violence provided for the lifting of medical secrecy in cases of violence, recognized the offence of forced suicide and allowed the seizure of weapons and firearms as soon as the complaint was filed. These pragmatic measures have begun to demonstrate their relevance in our fight against domestic violence. Yes, this legislature will be a decisive turning point in the fight against domestic violence: it is indisputable and it is thanks to the commitment of all parliamentarians. Nevertheless, it must be noted that resources are limited, as it is difficult for jurisdictions to be on all fronts without neglecting other areas. It is also necessary to raise the technical limit of anti-approximation bracelets which involve the location of the victim; It may be that the latter does not wish the respondent to know its geographical position and therefore refuses its attribution. The judiciary also regrets the lack of resources devoted to the psychological care of victims, as well as to the treatment of offenders, whether it is the follow-up of addictions or the child-psychiatric care of children. We have never had so many tools at our disposal to protect victims of domestic violence. All the measures we have taken since the beginning of the legislature are unprecedented, with an unprecedented budget itself. The increase in acts of violence and the increase in the number of complaints, a reflection of a free speech, naturally obliges us to go further and further. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group. – Mrs Caroline Abadie also applauds]] I would therefore like to take advantage of this debate to greet all the actors who are promoting justice in France: judges, prosecutors, magistrates, clerks, lawyers, associations to help victims, in short, all those who defend the rights of families upset by drama.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u36	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u37	At the beginning of the year, we find ourselves for a milestone on the enforcement of the law to act against domestic violence. This control debate finds a special echo after the three murders of women already recorded since the beginning of the year – we are only on 4 January. The IDU and independent group wishes to associate itself with the pain of families and their loved ones and sincerely hopes that the judicial and criminal response will live up to these abominable crimes. The news of the beginning of the year also reminds us of the tragic Chahinez case, with the summons to a disciplinary council of six police officers, suspected of serious shortcomings in the follow-up of complaints and reports submitted by this mother, who was burned alive in May 2021 by her ex-spouse. Unfortunately, there is much to bet that this tragedy is not an isolated case. The case must alert us as a matter of urgency about the lack of follow-up of complaints and the lack of information provided to the complainants, in particular regarding the judicial situation and the release of their spouse responsible for violence. In this revealing case in many respects, we are especially extremely surprised that, despite the adoption of the law to act against domestic violence at the end of 2019, the victim has not benefited from any of the protective or security measures introduced by the text, such as the anti-approach bracelet and serious danger telephone. These failures are extremely serious. Some experts estimate the prevalence of this type of situation to be one in five cases involving the murder of women. Of course, we do not question the police institution. It is paradoxical, however, that at the very moment when the Government is calling on the law enforcement agencies to check the sanitary pass of customers on a coffee terrace, we find that the very essence of public safety and the protection of women is deficient in our country. Despite the Government's announcements regarding the implementation of the law to deal with domestic violence, we note that there is a clear lack of real resources. For example, the possibility of lodging complaints in the hospital for women victims of violence was announced; In many cases, police personnel do not have a laptop to handle complaints.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u38	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u39	Furthermore, the implementation of one of the flagship measures in article 15, namely the relocation of victims of violence, is problematic, since half of the requests for emergency accommodation are rejected due to the lack of housing available. The subject of domestic violence has never been more present in the public debate. It is not to mention the children, whose situation is dramatic. Indeed, they are the main victims, collateral or direct, of domestic violence, whose physical and psychological consequences they suffer. Judge Édouard Durand, in an interview given a month ago in the Sunday Journal, referred to the serious figure of 160,000 children who were victims of sexual violence per year. These numbers must alert us. Yet the younger ones seem to remain a dead end to government policy on domestic violence. Their support is still too light, especially in schools, where we regret the absence of doctors and psychologists whose role is essential in the revelation of violence. While we welcome the progress that has been made since the passage of the law, we regret the continued weakness of resources and funding still below the ambitions announced at a large number of times. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Beyond the proliferation of legal mechanisms that will not solve the problem of exsanguing justice, it is through education and the moralization of society that we must pass through. Thus, we hope that 2022 will be the year of the containment of domestic violence, which is merely the transposition into the basic unit of society of a more general phenomenon of public violence that regularly punctuates the life of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u40	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u41	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem, Active ens and IDU-I groups]] I don't belong to the majority. My role as a parliamentarian, particularly in the context of our monitoring mission, is to point out, when necessary, the shortcomings and shortcomings of your policy. However, this evening I find it particularly indecent, if not unworthy, to question your will and determination to combat domestic violence. I say to this rostrum: we cannot pretend to fight violence, whatever it may be, and use a vocabulary of violence. In early 2022, there were three femicides in two days. Last year, 113 women had been killed by their spouses or ex-spouses. These figures are dramatic. The law of 28 December 2019 to act against domestic violence is now two years old. The main objective was to reduce violence against women, especially femicides. This law, which was adopted with the support of the Libertés et Territoires Group, included interesting measures such as the wearing of the anti-approximation bracelet by the convicted person or the widening of the conditions for the allocation of the serious danger telephone. Two years later, the record is mixed and the femicides, unfortunately, are still as numerous. On 4 May 2021, Chahinez Daoud was burned alive in the street by her husband, from whom she was separating, while she had filed a complaint of violence a month and a half earlier and her husband had already been convicted of acts of domestic violence. Five police officers were summoned to the disciplinary council today to speak about the dysfunctions of a case that highlights the persistence of major difficulties in the treatment of domestic violence, although they have, fortunately, been reduced in part. In particular, the inspection mission on this case highlighted the insufficient sharing of information between the police and justice services. Of course, there is no question of overburdening law enforcement and judicial personnel, who, in their vast majority, are extremely devoted and do their work as well as they can, despite sometimes constrained material conditions. This brings me to this question: when will the specific budget of at least EUR 1 billion, which the High Council has been advocating for several years for gender equality, finally be devoted to the prevention of such violence? Emphasis must be placed on training, particularly for law enforcement personnel, which is insufficient. Too many women complain, still today, of inadequate reception at the time of filing a complaint. How many women dare not file a complaint for fear of being misreceived? Above all, how many women, like Chahinez, are killed while they filed a complaint, for lack of follow-up and protection afterwards? How many tragedies such as this will still have to take place if strong measures are to be taken? Women who are victims of violent husbands often have to leave their homes, which is a double penalty. Why would it be for the victims to leave? It's time to reverse logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u42	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u43	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, Dem and GDR groups]] It is the violent husband who must be forced to leave and away from his wife. The anti-approximation bracelets are an essential tool in this direction. In this type of debate, it is useless, vain and even indecent to point to personal responsibilities...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u44	Why?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u45	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... and question the determination of one or the other. It's a very difficult subject, and I'll keep myself from being a bad prosecutor. I just hope I've been the best lawyer possible for this cause that must bring us all together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u46	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u47	It's January 4, and we're already deploring three femicides. If domestic violence cannot be stopped overnight, the weakness of public action is unacceptable, guilty and criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a highly political issue. The fight against violence against women may have been the largest sea serpent of the legislature: the great national cause of the quinquennium by Emmanuel Macron, it will have been the subject of all the promises on the plateau, of all the agitations in the Chamber, to break down on the wall of austerity. The lack of human and financial resources, i.e. political will, has taken away all the speeches. Four years ago, I called to the rostrum for the enactment of a major law on the model of what the Spaniards did in 2004, a framework law against gender-based and sexual violence. Since then, what has been done? Articles of law scattered between several texts, redundancies and contradictions, without any funding plan. I'm sorry to see us far away, so far away from the demand of the rushing # MeToo. Today we are going back to the application of a law unanimously passed two years ago, at the initiative of the Republican Group and in the absence, noticed, of Mrs Schiappa. The text had many shortcomings: a complete blindness to the educational and preventive dimension, the permanent lack of the question of the means allocated to professionals and associations... There as elsewhere, the worm was in the fruit from the beginning. So let us not be too surprised by the fact, two years later, that one third of cases are not tried within the six-day time limit for issuing a protection order or that the generalization of anti-approximation bracelets is sadly delayed. The meagre advances made possible by the text remain in the shadow of everything we should have done for a long time. In Tremblay-en-France, in the constituency of which I am elected, a woman who saw her little boy die under the blows of her husband came to see me, in the greatest distress, with her two other children: she lives in emergency accommodation despite repeated arrests on my part; evidence that not everything is exhausted in the criminal response. Ladies and gentlemen, even our House has a Member who has for several years been harassing and threatening his ex-wife. She is the owner of a serious danger telephone (GST) and is granted a protection order; However, the Bureau of the National Assembly refused to waive the parliamentary immunity requested by the magistrate to advance the case; proof, if necessary, that your alleged desire to protect the victims quickly meets its limits. I tell you sincerely, Mr. Keeper of the Seals: I will never do it. The shortcomings of this law reveal the still massive lack of apprehension of the phenomenon of male domination, which must be cast out in every part of daily life. Mrs Kuric, you refer responsibility only to the perpetrators of violence; Your remarks show how the idea of a systemic dimension, deeply virilistic, imprinted by a patriarchal history spread throughout the world, is not yet understood by all. This is a political question: if we do not agree on this, we will not provide the same answers to problems that we regret together. I am a member of a department, the Seine-Saint-Denis, which was the first to have an observatory on violence against women and which promotes coordination between the actors, from the police and justice services to the militant associations – it is very important. We know how much the reduction in public spending hinders the protection of victims and their support. Without a framework law with means, at least 1 billion dedicated to the entire chain, we will not get away with it. We will always be able to speak, but we will be condemned to see the tragedies continue. [[Applause on the benches of the FI, SOC and GDR groups]] I cannot welcome the outcome of this law, because I see through its shortcomings the failed balance of a mandate. In the 20th century, feminist movements ripped out equality in the law. In the twenty-first century, this equality must become a reality. To achieve this, words are not enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u48	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u49	The year 2022 was just beginning, but the tragic count of femicides already recorded three victims. These tragedies give our session a serious tone of concern, since with 113 women killed by their spouses in 2021, domestic violence was already on the rise. Moreover, since the publication of a report by the European Commission in November, we know that the terrible figure of more than one woman killed by her spouse every three days in France needs to be revised upwards. Indeed, this statistic ignores all those who, through psychological violence, are driven to suicide. In 2017, 209 women pushed to the end ended their lives. In France's fight to protect women in their marriage, it will be necessary to integrate this new dimension as soon as possible. The law of 28 December 2019 strengthened the fight against domestic violence, in particular by extending the conditions for the issuance of protection orders, which must be issued within six days of the date of the hearing. These new protective provisions, enshrined in the Civil Code, represent real progress, especially since the creation of a specific committee at national level. In two years, the number of applications for orders has increased significantly, as has the acceptance rate. However, the victim's approach still requires courage and still faces practical difficulties, such as the collection of evidence. The National Committee of the Protection Ordinance has formulated eight recommendations to make the Ordinance better known, more solicited and fully play its role as the primary bulwark for the maximum number of women at risk. The health crisis and confinements, which have aggravated and revealed the extent of domestic violence, can only encourage them to follow. The imposed in camera and the highest alcohol consumption due to inactivity and stress were a very alarming explosive mixture. I therefore thank the LR Group for putting this issue on the agenda. As they have been doing since the beginning of the quinquennium, feminist associations and collectives have been battling the measures to be adopted or developed. The training of professionals who take care of women and gather their word is crucial. I am thinking of the police and gendarmerie forces, as well as the magistrates and carers. Public authorities must pay the utmost attention to their awareness, both the urgency, the circumstances and the need to build a bond of trust make their intervention always exceptional and every time crucial. In this regard, the Minister of the Interior has announced the possibility of filing a complaint outside the walls of the police station or the gendarmerie: will it be widespread? What about regrouping the various interlocutors in a single place? [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] The issue of shelter for victims also arises, especially in the presence of children. If the eviction of the violent spouse remains the priority, it must be possible to facilitate the relocation of the victim woman, if she so wishes. A partnership with social donors should be developed and generalized in order to make these women a priority for the allocation of a roof. In La Réunion, only one lessor made a firm commitment to that end. The protection of women also requires the wide and rapid availability of the serious danger telephone and the anti-approximation bracelet. We know what violence they have prevented, but we do not forget that they have missed dramatically in recent months. So let's deploy the TGD massively, beyond the target of 5000 devices. This tool has proven its worth in terms of protection, support and support for victims. I therefore reiterate my request to deploy it more widely in La Réunion, which benefits only 35 TGD, while it is ranked third most violent department of France towards women. The same applies to anti-approximate bracelets: La Réunion has only seven! Without being exhaustive, this list shows that progress has been made in the fight against domestic violence. From now on, the main challenge is to scale up actions and arrangements, by mobilizing budgetary resources commensurate with a scourge that afflicts women and also affects the most fragile, children. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] According to the Mission's report on the violent deaths of children in families, published in May 2018, there is indeed "a very strong link between domestic violence and violence against children". There are 380,000 covictims of this violence. According to experts, 60 per cent of them will develop post-traumatic disorders as a result of domestic violence and 12 times more likely to develop psychiatric disorders in adulthood. Again, there is an urgent need for systematic care to make care available to all victims that can take several years. Paediatric care units for children at risk are therefore moving in the right direction. But important decisions, which are the subject of increasingly precise recommendations, remain pending, including the suspension and withdrawal of parental authority in cases of violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u50	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u51	Every time a woman falls under the blows of her spouse, every time a woman has to abandon her home, it is a tragedy that challenges us: how to do more, how to do better? If the fight against domestic violence has been mobilising the public authorities for many years, 2019 has experienced an unprecedented acceleration, with the organization of the Grenelle of domestic violence, thanks to your impulse, Madam Minister Delegate. Institutional actors, associations, members of civil society and elected representatives, we all met and sought solutions. We have selected forty-six important measures, which have since been strengthened to draw lessons from the tragedies of Mérignac or Hayange. Let us salute their essential contribution Bérangère Couillard, who defended the bill to protect victims of domestic violence, and Marie-Pierre Rixain, president of the delegation for women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women. Let us also welcome all past and present members of the Government who have been involved in this cause throughout the quinquennium. I also pay tribute to the contribution of Aurélien Pradié,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u52	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u53	[[Laughs]] ...who was able to seize a commitment from Prime Minister Édouard Philippe to create the anti-approximation bracelet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u54	It's better to hear that than to be deaf!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u55	This one, you must have dared to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u56	We have collectively mobilized in favour of your bill, my colleague, and we have voted unanimously. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It is in a particular context that we establish this useful milestone. With the first confinement, we all feared that the family lock-up would cause the violence to explode. Mr Pradie, are you not interested in the debate?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u57	Yes, passionate!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u58	Very quickly, the Government reacted to find practical solutions: exemption from exit certificates for women fleeing violence, discreet reporting to the pharmacist, and the creation of new emergency accommodation spaces. The protection order is at the heart of the law we evaluate; It is now an essential tool in the hands of justice, even though it was unknown and its interest underestimated. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, can you tell us how the judges, victims and lawyers have seized this instrument, which we have facilitated access to and which we have reduced the deadline for obtaining? The law also encourages the deployment of the anti-approximation bracelet. We know the real protection it provides to the victims. The same applies to the serious danger telephone, the success of which has led to generalization. Every alert given, every alarm triggered, it's a life saved. A total of 1,000 bracelets were made available to the judiciary. For fear of missing it, judges may not pronounce the measure. The numbers you have given us show that 500 bracelets have been allocated. Can you explain the reasons for these brakes? Finally, for victims forced to release the family home, the experimental scheme of personalized assistance to housing allows either access to housing in the social park, through sub-rents granted by associations, or the taking over of the guarantee deposit and the first months of rent. The steering committee responsible for monitoring its deployment, of which I am honoured to be a member, is now ready to carry out its mission; the report scheduled for the summer of 2023 will take a comprehensive look at it. In 2022, 9,000 emergency accommodation places will be available for victims, an increase of 3,000 places in three years. Nevertheless, I remain convinced of the need for the treatment of perpetrators of domestic violence in dedicated centres, which combine accommodation and judicial, educational, medical and social follow-up. These centres allow for the eviction of the violent spouse and are very successful in the fight against recidivism. Co-financed by the Ministry of Equality between Women and Men, some 20 of these centres for the care of perpetrators of domestic violence (CPCA) have opened or are about to start their activities. Unfortunately, local and regional authorities sometimes find it difficult to mobilize their share of funding. We have a responsibility to develop and vote on laws, but also to ensure that they are effectively enforced. It's a question of means, and they're here: 1 billion euros. It is also a matter of will. We have, we have, we will still have: we have acted like no other majority before us, and it is even better when members of the opposition have the honesty to recognize it. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Our discussions highlight the progress made, although the current situation unfortunately reminds us of all that remains to be done. For every femicide obliges us to responsibility and dignity. Our country has already had three too many of them this year.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u59	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u60	No one can, of course, remain insensitive to these figures, which account for the femicides that occurred in our country last year, this year already, the year before, in 2007, in 2008, in 2009 – all the years have seen their terrifying macabre balance. No one can get used to it, of course. Femicides cover different realities. Do you know, for example, that 11% of femicide perpetrators are over 80 years of age?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u61	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u62	Do you know that the question often arises – for these femicides in particular – of the end of life of the two members of the couple?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u63	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u64	Do you know, for example – this type of subject is not easy to understand in a global way – that 27% of femicide perpetrators commit suicide? This demonstrates at least a certain psychological fragility – I do not justify anything. Do you also know, Mr Pradieu – I have the weakness of knowing my file on the tip of my fingers –...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u65	You're not a lawyer here, you're a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u66	Let us listen to the minister, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u67	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Pradieu, you have already attacked me for the first time on a personal level. I tell you, your sufficiency is equal only to your insufficiency in the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u68	It's a personal attack!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u69	I'll give you a few more figures, because they're interesting. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in 80% of cases, justice has not received any reports? Of course, we must work to bring more reports to the attention of law enforcement and justice. However, justice, in this hypothesis, when it knows nothing, obviously can do nothing – forgiveness to say it. Do you also know – you who still have Spain in their mouths – that the number of femicides in Spain began to fall seven years after the vote on the 2004 great law? At present, they reach a plateau – I will give you the figures, which I have asked the Spanish liaison magistrate – which must naturally be brought back to the Spanish population. The Spaniards find it difficult to reduce them further, despite the considerable efforts they have made. And we followed their example. Femicide covers different types of femicides, with a great heterogeneity of sociological, social, psychological, and sometimes psychiatric situations: let us ignore generalizations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u70	There's a system, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u71	As for those who hold the solutions, who will do what we naturally have not done, I invite them to address these issues very seriously and to try – we have already done so in the past – to go together on these issues. Violence against women is obviously a scourge. It is so deeply rooted that it can only be combated by a mobilization of society – I do not waste myself in any way – as a whole. It is so rooted that the awakening of consciences was extremely late. The latter did not date ten years ago, when the right was in power, you know it and I say it without controversy...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u72	Ten years ago, I wasn't in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u73	We weren't elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u74	...or five years ago, when the left was in power – I say it again, without controversy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u75	But you're saying it anyway!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u76	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] He's recent. I do not incriminate anyone: it dates back a few years and we owe it, first of all, to the fabric of associations. Let us give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar. We owe it to the leaders and the relays of opinion, we owe it to the journalists. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis sesclaffe]] We are here, Mr. Pradie, to speak of a law. If we are all gathered together, it is to discuss its implementation. We were all united to vote on it and we are applying it: I will tell you under what conditions. I want to pay tribute to the opposition parliamentarians. I am not dogmatic – I have already said it many times.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u77	We can't believe you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u78	Ricase if you like!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u79	I don't laugh, I laugh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u80	Last time, one of yours had a laughter box: you laugh live, it's already better!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u81	Yes, it's nicer, admit it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u82	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will therefore address the opposition parliamentarians, but also – I do not forget them – those of the majority, who have allowed the law to be voted on. Because without you, there is no law. I also want to pay tribute – she is present with me tonight and her friendship honors me – to Marlene Schiappa, who has worked so hard to make things change. I also want to pay tribute to Christophe Castaner, as well as to my predecessor Nicole Belloubet. In this debate, which we will have for a few minutes or hours – I am at your disposal to answer all your questions – it would be unworthy to say that this or that does not have at heart the fight against femicides.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u83	No one said that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u84	To paraphrase an old formula, no one has, in this case, the monopoly of the heart: we do everything we can, both of us. In this regard, I thank Mr Falorni for his comments. It is with humility, but also with the taste of the work resolutely set in motion, that I come to you tonight. I should have done so with my colleague, Elizabeth Moreno: I also pay tribute to her, because she is fighting every moment, but unfortunately she is suffering from the covid and I know that we all join in wishing her a speedy recovery. Once the law is passed – I say it without a polemic – it must be applied. It was up to us to implement it and we have, contrary to what some might say, put the necessary resources. This is a priority of the President of the Republic. This strong impetus has led to an absolutely unprecedented mobilization of the Parliament, the Government, of course, but also of all the actors involved: the judiciary, at all levels of the criminal chain, the police, the judiciary, the registry, the prison services of integration and probation, and associations. All have joined forces to make the fight against violence against women more effective. You will later find that our determination to enforce the December 28, 2019 law has been total, and it will remain total. That determination did not stop there. We cannot forget this: on 3 September 2019, the Government launched the Grenelle des violences conjugales, allowing our country to engage in a real cultural fight to eradicate violence against women. Of the 46 measures taken by the Grenelle, 100 per cent are committed: 35 of them have been fully implemented and 11 are in the process of being implemented. However, on a subject of society as sensitive as the one that brings us together today, we must remain humble, because there is no zero risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u85	We know that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u86	Nobody says that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u87	You know that, but, from time to time, you forget it, according to promises that you make, and that, of course, you will not be able to keep, that no one can keep. A femicide – only one – is obviously a femicide of too many, which signs a failure of public policies in this field; But we will not let go, and we are determined to constantly strengthen our arsenal of protection and prevention and to give ourselves as much resources as necessary. I repeat: violence against women is not a fatality. I am therefore before you to present the assessment of the implementation of the law of 28 December 2019 aimed at acting against violence within the family, which represented a major step forward in the fight against domestic violence, reforming the protection order – we will talk about it in a moment –, giving a new boost to the serious danger phone, deploying the anti-approach bracelet and taking into account the impact of violence on children. Ladies and gentlemen, without any kind of forfantry, I think I can say that, in applying this law, we have been up to the stakes. You also found, a little less than a year ago, that the information report of the Law Commission described the implementation of this law as satisfactory. We have made further progress since then, as you will see. In fact, every moment of work has been carried out by the Government at all levels of the Ministry of Justice for the past two years. The Ministry had thus given a strong impetus to the implementation of those provisions: in two years, nineteen dispatches and circulars had been circulated to the heads of jurisdiction. In addition to very clear recommendations on how to deal with this very specific dispute, the best practices of the courts have also been shared. In this regard, the dispatch of 24 September 2021 identified nearly 100 ministerial recommendations and illustrated them with good practices, identified in all jurisdictions. Secondly, additional resources were provided to the courts, with the recruitment, for three years, of 61 specialized legal assistants, deployed in the largest courts, at the request of the public prosecutor's offices, to improve the treatment of domestic violence, and of 106 category A staff, with a contract of four months renewable if needs are identified: these contracts have already been renewed, for three years. I announced last September that they would be sustainable. Additional resources have also been put in the service of the victims. The budget for victims of violence against women has increased by 77% over four years, from €6.9 million in 2019 to €12.2 million in 2022. Similarly, the budget dedicated to protective means, such as the serious danger phone or the anti-approximation bracelet, is on the increase: for example, the total expenditure on the serious danger phone increased from €1.6 million in 2018 to €3.8 million in 2021, an increase of more than 145%. Ongoing coordination and monitoring of the policy to combat domestic violence is also ensured: they have been set up under the auspices of the senior official for equality between women and men, in conjunction with all the directorates of the Ministry. Many tools and guides have been developed. Courts have been given a real accompaniment to appropriate new devices, such as the anti-approximation bracelet. Of course, I will answer very precisely if a number of additional questions were to be asked in our debates, which are extremely important. In particular with regard to the protection order, as the report of the Law Commission points out – it is not the Minister of Justice who speaks – it can be said that, contrary to what some say, the law has achieved its objectives, whether it is speed, the rendering of decisions or the multiplication of protection measures granted to victims. It should be remembered, Mr.Pradié, that in 2016 there were fewer than 2,000 protection orders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u88	Are you writing them?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u89	... with an acceptance rate of 60% and an average delivery time of 42 days. Listen to these numbers, they're better than your incantations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u90	That's not the point! Ladies and gentlemen, let us listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u91	[[Mr. Aurélien Pradie protested]] You imposed a six-day time limit on the issuance of the order. We have made every effort to respond to this real but indispensable challenge by means of regulations: the procedure has been adjusted; a guide to the protection order has been published; the courts have put in place channels of emergency, to deal with these cases as a priority, as well as closer partnerships with lawyers and bailiffs. As a result, the majority of protection orders are issued within six days. In three years, the number of decisions on protection orders has increased by almost 110% and the number of acceptance decisions has increased by more than 138%. But to further improve access to this procedure, we went further by creating a national committee of the protection order, whose presidency was entrusted to Ernestine Ronai, responsible for the Observatory of Violence against Women of the Seine-Saint-Denis. It involves all justice partners and allows the analysis of court returns, identifying both potential blockages and good practices. Similarly, since the law of 30 July 2020 presented by your colleagues Bérangère Couillard and Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, legal aid is now granted automatically on a provisional basis in urgent proceedings such as the protection order. Moreover, by decree of 23 June 2021, protection order proceedings fell within the scope of the guaranteed legal aid mechanism; It was essential to protect the poorest women. Mr Pradie, during your speech, you said that the weapons were not seized. At worst, you made a huge mistake; at best, confusion. I was talking to you about accurate knowledge of the file. As far as protection orders are concerned, let me remind you first of all that we are in civil matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u92	So what?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u93	And then, in civil matters, the judge can only rule on the parties' requests.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u94	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're completely unaware of the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u95	[[Mr. Aurélien Pradie exclaimed]] Yes, sir, of course I do! All the lawyers who are here will appreciate it. Contrary to what you said, the judge cannot withdraw the weapons...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u96	Mr Pradie, we are listening to the guard of the seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u97	You don't know the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u98	Objection your honor!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u99	Please proceed, Mr. Keeper of the Seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u100	Mr. Pradié is caught in flagrant error, what do you want me to tell you. In the gallery you published in Le Monde, you didn't go into detail, that's for sure. The civilian judge, I said, can only withdraw the weapons if he is asked to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u101	That's not true, it's in Article 2 of the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u102	We listen to the keeper of the seals, he alone has the word for the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u103	You are confusing, Mr Pradieu, the referral of weapons by the criminal judge and the referral to the civilian judge, who, I repeat, can only intervene at the request of the parties.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u104	That's not true! It's amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u105	It's amazing, yes. Mr. Pradie, I'm not going to focus on you...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u106	A little though!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u107	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] ...it would be too much honor for you. You attacked each other by arguing that you, you fight, while we do nothing and we don't care. It is unbearable for Marlene Schiappa, for me and for all the parliamentarians who belong to the majority. You sent me a registered mail with acknowledgment of receipt, which is quite curious.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u108	2017 mails remain unanswered!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u109	In 2017, Mr Dupond-Moretti was not a minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u110	The LR Group will be able to speak during the questions; For the time being, only Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u111	So you sent me, Mr. Pradie, a registered mail with acknowledgment of receipt – by spelling my name badly, but that's a detail – to which I replied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u112	Forty minutes ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u113	[[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] I did not reply to you by registered mail, moreover, because that is not how I envisage the relationship I have and want to have with parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u114	Obstruction, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u115	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis exclaimed]] Let's go on. Mr Pradie, you made a second mistake: you announce to the national representation that twelve anti-approximation bracelets have been deployed. It's curious, as I pinch Mr. Pradié, it's Mr. Bernalicis who says "Ouch". Since 2018, the serious danger phone, a device that has demonstrated its effectiveness, has experienced an absolutely remarkable growth. The law of 28 December 2019 first relaxed the conditions for granting it, and I welcome it. Then, we strongly mobilized the courts to apply it, in particular by making as many serious telephones at their disposal as necessary. The figures speak for themselves: in 2018, 330 serious danger phones were allocated, compared to 2252 in 2021. We have multiplied by seven the number of dangerous telephones distributed; No one can deny it in good faith. In 2020, there were 1,185 alarms with the intervention of the internal security forces; These are all the tragedies that have been avoided. The law of 28 December 2019 also provides for the deployment of anti-approximation bracelets. Since December 31, 2020, the 1000 bracelets, announced by the Prime Minister on November 25, 2019, have been deployed in all national jurisdictions. The undertaking has been fulfilled. Tools have also been disseminated, good practices have been shared, protocols have been established and police steering committees have been established. On May 27, I myself took a circular called comminatory by some magistrates, so that the bracelets would not remain in the drawers; Some of you remember. Since then, their deployment has increased every day: as of 3 November, 676 had already been deployed, 460 bracelets are now active, and not 12 as you said, Mr.Pradié.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u116	Twelve bracelets deployed in a pre-scenic setting: that's what you say in your mail!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u117	You have misread the answer you received, because you have counted, and you have done so deliberately, only the BARs deployed in civil matters. As you know, in civil matters, I repeat, we need the agreement of the parties. When you talk about a subject, the least you can do is get to know his file! On the other hand, I hear political or sometimes associative leaders say that there would be a lack of anti-approximation bracelets. We all heard it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u118	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u119	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u120	I'm not saying you say it, but it's not true. All courts have a stock of three bracelets in advance and, whenever a bracelet is awarded, another one is delivered to the court within a maximum of 24 hours, as stipulated by contract, so that courts are never short of bracelets. The financing of this scheme will be sustained by pooling the costs of other conventional electronic surveillance measures and will be the subject of a supplementary request under the next multiannual budgetary programme. The law of 28 December 2019 also represents a step forward in recognizing the impact of domestic violence on children, including the possibility for the criminal judge to decide on parental authority in the event of a prosecution or conviction for domestic violence. The report of the Law Commission on the implementation of this Act points out that the implementation of these provisions is a success, as the figures show. While ten decisions were rendered in 2019 on this point, 453 were made in 2021 – you want more details, I'll give them to you. Again, we wanted to go further: I wanted the recognition of victim status to be guaranteed to children exposed to violence committed within the couple. Thus, the decree of 23 November 2021 provides that the prosecutor shall ensure that they may become a civil party to the trial and shall, if necessary, appoint an ad hoc administrator to represent them. In order to ensure that the exercise of parental authority is no longer the means for a violent parent to maintain his or her control over the other parent, the decree provides, in the event of a complaint of non-representation of a child in the context of domestic violence, that the magistrates verify the allegations of violence before prosecuting the parent who is actually the victim and who can therefore act in the child's interest without committing an offence. A downloadable application has been made available to the public to enable victims to obtain information that facilitates their efforts with the various professionals. In November 2020, the Ministry of Justice supported the launch of the "Memo de Vie" application created by France Victims, our privileged partner, by financing it to the tune of €500,000. It is a new protection tool, as you wish, in the form of a free web application, accessible on the phone, tablet or computer. In its personalized space, the victim can describe the facts, keep documents securely, benefit from reliable information about his/her rights and have access to all emergency and accompaniment numbers for the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, the count of femicides has not started under this quinquennium, and this debate is too important to be held hostage to political manipulations and instrumentalisations, as some might be tempted to do. The facts and figures – I have given you a lot of them – are stubborn and eloquent. There is one last one that I would like to resubmit to you and that must prompt all of us to find the right answers. According to the still provisional data available for the year 2021, the change to the author's act having been preceded by a report to the police or to the courts represents only 15% of the cases – if I dare say so – which means implicitly, but necessarily, that more than 80% of the cases have not been reported to the gendarmerie, the police, the social services and, of course, to the courts. Our fight is also to make the words of the victims go further. We cannot take it into account if the echo of this word does not reach us; It's obvious. That is one of the points on which we still have to work. In the registered letter addressed to me, you indicated, Mr Pradiyah, Mr Abad, that you wanted a transparent debate – I obviously accept the augur – and transparent. After hearing you, it leaves me thinking. These are subjects that are too serious and too important to be instrumentalized. Finally, no one will be able to tell me, and to tell Marlene Schiappa, Elizabeth Moreno, the Head of Government and the President of the Republic, that we have not been sensitive to the situation of women who are subjected to violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u121	The question is not sensitivity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u122	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Alexandra Louis also applauds]] On the other hand, in the light of the figures I have just given you, no one will be able to say that we have done nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u123	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u124	Two years ago, the Republicans Group put on the Assembly's agenda its bill to combat domestic violence. With Aurélien Pradié, we had made it our priority to protect women and their children, and we had collectively voted for it in view of the urgency. Anti-approximation bracelet, protection order within six days, removal of weapons, reservation of accommodation for victims: all the provisions supported by the Republicans on the application of which we are asking you today for accounts. In fact, in 2021 113 women were unfortunately killed, 113 lives and 113 families were destroyed. It's unbearable. I'll ask you two questions. What about the ban on carrying weapons for violent men? How is it that the carrying of weapons is not systematically withdrawn from a man under a protective order? It is incomprehensible to all of us and to our fellow citizens who listen to us. A majority of drama involves a firearm. How can we be satisfied that in only 56% of cases the judge asks for the removal of this weapon? We absolutely need clarification on this point, Aurélien Pradié told you. There is likely to be a difference in interpretation of the text. If you are not more satisfied with it than we are, then we must change it. But we cannot accept that violent men still hold a firearm. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the future of children in the families where such violence and femicides take place. I had proposed the creation of a one-stop shop to accompany these children and the families who care for them so that they would be less unemployed and benefit from human support. What do you think of this proposal?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u125	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u126	I shall begin by recalling the facts presented by Mr. Keeper of the Seals at the moment. I regret to note that the Member who spoke earlier confused civil and criminal matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u127	You were not there during the examination of the text, it is normal that you cannot understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u128	I think that no one here will claim to teach the difference between civil and criminal in the custody of the seals, Mr Eric Dupond-Moretti, to which we agree of course. I want to remind you that the firearm is the first mode of operation of femicide. It is often said of a woman that she died under the blows of her spouse but, in reality, the firearm is the first method of surgery. That is why, during the Grenelle des violences conjugales, the then Prime Minister, Édouard Philippe, had wished that we could make arrangements, which was done, to seize the weapons. The law therefore allows, during the criminal investigation and even during the proceedings, the seizure of weapons held by the violent spouse in accordance with the provisions recalled by the keeper of the seals. It gave specific instructions to the prosecution through the circular of 3 August 2020 for the systematic seizure of weapons held by the persons in question. The Prosecutor's Office has been asked to ensure that law enforcement agencies act with particular attention. Together with the Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, we reaffirmed this will and gave instructions to the Prefects in February 2021 to systematize the seizure of weapons in the matter of domestic violence as soon as the complaint, therefore in pre-sentence. Thus, we went further than the provisions of the law, since the law provided that the weapon could be seized by law enforcement officials, while we made the seizure mandatory as soon as the complaint was filed. Finally, following the affairs of Mérignac and Hayange, with the guard of the seals and the minister of the interior, under the authority of the Prime Minister, we wanted to go further. The draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security strengthens the national register of persons prohibited from acquiring and possessing arms (FINIADA) in order to better prevent the passage of criminal acts by extending, inter alia, the scope of the offences on the register to offences against minors and the family. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You see that not only do we enforce the law, but we go even further to protect women.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u129	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u130	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I am pleased to continue the exchange initiated during the questions to the Government, although it is true that the Prime Minister would have preferred the postponement of this debate which the Republican Group has wished, if necessary, proof of its attention to this matter. It is always surprising to be criticized by the current majority or by the Government for a lack of humility, as everything succeeds him and everything he touches becomes gold.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u132	Unlike you, I am not saying that nothing has been done. I can welcome advances, such as the increase in the number of accommodation places. However, at least have decency or simply intellectual honesty to recognize that the opposition is a driving force in this fight against violence. It doesn't take anything away from you. What concerns us this evening is better than the political response that you gave us a few moments ago, which, it must be admitted, was not up to the seriousness of the facts and the respect due to the victims. We all agree that what counts in the end is the results. I want to go back to the anti-approximate bracelets. You said that the Family Courts ordered twenty-two anti-approach bracelets under a protection order, but that twelve were active as at 30 December 2021. Isn't there a problem, when 113 women were murdered in 2021, while only twelve bracelets are active? This must not be the subject of controversy but of a simple observation. We owe these women and families greater efficiency. And despite the devices that pile up, we must admit that the figures are worrying. I refuse to be fatal. We call for further mobilization and invite you to study our proposals, which can be good even if they are not yours, such as the socialised jurisdiction to shorten deadlines and organise social support for victims, for example. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I repeat again: as long as there is one person left, one last victim of domestic violence in France, we will be at his side.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u133	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u134	Mr. Minot, I am pleased to continue these questions to the Government in a slightly longer format. You will concede, however, that the two-minute time allotted to me is short to answer questions like this. First of all, you did not pay attention: I said what the contribution of your political family was; But I also said that it was also, I agree, thanks to this majority that this text was voted on. Finally, I say, with supporting figures, that we have fulfilled our obligations to implement this text because, as you know, a text that is not applied has no interest. On 3 November 2021, 676 decisions imposing the wearing of an anti-approximation bracelet were handed down in 2021; 467 bracelets are active as of December 27, 2021. Since September 2020, the internal security forces have conducted 1,558 interventions. Finally, you confuse the pre-sentence...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u135	No, you're not listening!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u136	Please listen to me, I'm trying to explain. The pre-sentence refers to the situation before judgment. There must be a distinction between criminal and civil. Mr. Minot, listen to my answer. In criminal matters, the opinion of the person concerned is not sought, as there is evidence to suggest that he is violent. Civil, on the other hand, requires the agreement of both sides. Often, experience shows that women do not want the anti-approximation bracelet to be imposed. We have to ask for their opinion. It's a reality, and I have nothing to do with it. In criminal law, when a procedure is initiated, we have these results. I would add that the anti-approximation bracelets are available to all jurisdictions and that, as soon as a bracelet is used, it is replaced within 24 hours. Let us not say that nothing has been done!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u137	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u138	First of all, I would like to welcome this debate on the application of an important quinquennium law that included proposals from the Grenelle des violences conjugales. It illustrates the joint work of parliamentarians of the majority and the opposition to move forward on this issue. This debate allows us to exercise our oversight role by analyzing the effectiveness of law enforcement. I would also like to thank the Landes Departmental Association for Victim Assistance and Mediation, as well as the information centres on women's and families' rights for their valuable returns from the field. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have paid tribute to the fabric of associations, and we thank you for that. There is agreement that this law is a step forward: we have made progress, even if there is still some way to go. It is a fact that the collaborations between the gendarmerie, the police, the prosecutor's office and the associations work better. The number of dangerous phones has been multiplied by seven, as you recalled. It's a valuable tool. However, there are still problems of availability: the deadline is sometimes one month after the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The staff of the call centres also find it difficult to keep up with the increasing needs with currently 47 telephones, for example, in the Landes, for a department of 410000 inhabitants. What can be done to better manage these logistical problems? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the treatment of perpetrators of violence, which I believe is a dead end of the law. Comprehensive care is an effective means of preventing recidivism. It must develop medically and therapeutically, in terms of socio-professional support and accommodation following removal procedures. As is well known, new violence often occurs in the period between the complaint and the conviction. Despite the commitment of the associations, the support of the authors and the associated means to meet them are not always up to the needs. Can you therefore give us your assessment on this point, in particular on the opening of the centres for the care of perpetrators of domestic violence and on what remains to be done in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u139	It's constructive!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u140	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u141	The prevention of recidivism clearly requires a multidisciplinary management – psychological, health, social – of the authors, as I recalled in the circular of 3 August 2020. Despite the absence of specific legislative provisions and beyond the work carried out by the prison integration and probation services, which, inter alia, develop the collective care of perpetrators of domestic violence by using innovative tools, such as the virtual reality that may be discussed again, various mechanisms for the overall care of perpetrators exist today. The Public Prosecutor's Office has thus developed, in conjunction with the Penitentiary Integration and Probation Service (SPIP) and the voluntary sector, strengthened judicial controls specifically dedicated to perpetrators of domestic violence, including comprehensive and strengthened treatment of perpetrators, including accommodation in a suitable structure. I will also mention the centres for the care of perpetrators of domestic violence, set up in July 2020 at the initiative of the Ministry responsible for equality between women and men. With the 30 existing centres, each region, including overseas regions, is provided with new care resources, drawing on local actors in the areas of health, housing and, of course, housing. Finally, we were not told of any difficulties regarding the serious danger telephone. On the other hand, it is true that the number of technical alarms and violations is higher than the number that could have been predicted by the teleoperator. Pending the renewal of the contract in May 2022, at which a better assessment of these logistical requirements will be carried out, the claimant undertook to deploy all means to remedy the problem and the management of the prison administration is very strict in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u142	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u143	[[Smile]] I remember the law of 28 December 2019 – it's almost my date of birth, in any case for 28 December. It is a beautiful and important law, which has been voted unanimously in this House. It is important that we can think about it. The control week is a difficult exercise, which is not a real control. The initiative of Aurélien Pradié to ask you several questions on topics on which we do not have a statistical answer is quite interesting. I would like to know if we could have a copy of the reply you sent to Aurélien Pradié.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u144	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u145	Indeed, these assessments are fundamental and in themselves constitute the control we have to carry out on the implementation and implementation of the provisions of the law. We have been carrying out this mission for five years with this concern that you share about how we translate an important text into the territory. We parliamentarians do not have the elements to answer these questions. As you said, the numbers are stubborn. We are all engaged in this situation. Tell us sincerely, in your opinion, what action it would be necessary to adopt in order to try to improve this mechanism in the face of violence that resists our legislative undertakings.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u146	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u147	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is very nice to hear words of appeasement, Mrs Untermaier. I really think that nobody here failed: neither the opposition when it proposed this text, nor the majority when it voted, nor the Government when it implemented it. I find it unbearable to raise one against another on a subject like this one. Indeed, as you write in your letter, we must be transpartist. We can't do the little politics on issues like this one; I find that it lacks decency, but perhaps not everyone shares my feeling. For the rest, Madam Member, I will pass on to you the questions that we have addressed to Mr Pradié. I will also pass on to you, they are very interesting, the Spanish figures which show that, while our neighbours are forerunners, it has taken years for them to see the fruits of the criminal policy conducted beating drum. We must have this example in mind. As 80 per cent of cases are not brought to the attention of the judiciary, the latter cannot invent when it is not informed of anything. So what we have to fight for is the resurgence of the victims' words. This, in my opinion, will help to improve the situation, knowing, I repeat, that zero risk does not exist and that the Spaniards themselves unfortunately fail to fall below a certain plateau.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u148	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u149	The horrific count of femicides reminds us that, too often, domestic violence leads to death. Beyond physical violence, beatings, psychological violence, economic violence, often killed by society. In this spiral of violence, families are being destroyed, and it is especially children who have remained for too long silent and sometimes forgotten witnesses. Since the beginning of this quinquennium, we have collectively done a lot – with the majority, opposition and representatives of society. The Grenelle of domestic violence had the great merit of giving the floor to the actors of the field, to the victims and I have a thought for Valérie Bacot, Laura Rapp, Tatiana-Laurence Delarue and all those who have been leading this fight for years. We have voted several texts since 2017 to increase the penalties for those who commit domestic violence in front of children. When you go after your partner, it's first of all the mother you go after. A child who is witnessing domestic violence is as if he were in a theatre of war. We have voted for a text providing for the suspension of parental authority in these circumstances, which has unfortunately been a crucial issue until now. We have come a long way and I have no doubt that we will continue to do so, because there is still work to be done, even though I would like to stress the mobilisation on all the benches and beyond the Chamber to reach this point. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] My two questions are pretty simple. You recalled earlier, Minister, that the parental suspension system had worked rather well and it is happy. So can you give some numerical details? Secondly, with regard to the psychological care of children who witness such violence, we voted for a text. What provisions are applied to complement these legislative developments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u150	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u151	The exercise of parental authority must no longer constitute for a violent parent the means of maintaining his or her control over the other parent, it is obvious. The criminal courts have seized the new provisions and I will tell you again: for 2020, there are 235 decisions withdrawing or limiting the exercise of parental authority; For the first eleven months of 2021, we have listed 453 decisions rendering a total or partial withdrawal from the exercise of parental authority. I must remind you that prosecutors are encouraged to carry out a systematic assessment of children during proceedings for domestic violence. Indeed, a child who sees his mother being hit by his father is a victim because his adult construction will be permanently altered. With regard to the care of these children, the Public Prosecutor's Office sends a report to the information collection cells of concern (CRAP). In several jurisdictions, according to the guidelines of the Public Prosecutor's Office, children exposed to domestic violence are systematically examined by the medical and judicial unit. This is the case for the springs of Bobigny, of Paris, for the court the appeal of Lyon... All of this, of course, as a matter of good practice. Finally, on 23 November 2021, I signed a decree specifying the conduct to be taken by the judicial authorities in order to ensure the effective judicial protection of children: the prosecutor or the judge seized shall ensure that the child is a civil party in the future criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u152	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u153	Doctors who receive and care for threatened women and their children point out that the covid crisis and confinements have reinforced and multiplied family dramas. The figures are dramatic: 113 femicides in 2021 and, since the beginning of the year, three more. The North, of which I am elected, is the third metropolitan department most affected by domestic violence. The IDU and independent group therefore welcomes this debate, and I will come back to a few specific points. First of all, if it is essential to give priority to the victim in order to maintain the family housing, what are the cases in which she does not wish to remain there? What is the status of the experiment envisaged by the 2019 law to allow the introduction of financial aid for its rehousing? What about the anti-approximation bracelet which, although considered to be a useful device, is not sufficiently efficient? On the one hand, in the case of a civil proceeding – which concerns the vast majority of cases – its application must be made with the consent of the spouse, which severely restricts its use. On the other hand, the victims do not systematically have, at the moment they are threatened, their teleprotection box under their hands. What about the financial resources allocated for the deployment of this mechanism? Minister, Chahinez Boutaa's tragedy and the lack of follow-up on his case are now making our headlines. On the day after the events, you pointed out that some anti-approximation bracelets remained in the drawers while all jurisdictions had been provided with them. Also, where do the blocking points come from and when does a real assessment of the experiment of this device come from? Finally, would it not be in the interest, in order to supplement this law, to encourage the increase of the number of posts of social workers in the gendarmerie? Their role is indeed essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u154	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u155	You are right to recall that the rule is the eviction of the violent spouse, and to recall that in some cases the women themselves wish to leave their homes. I am thinking of this woman whom we met, together with the President of the Republic, during a trip to the seat of 3919: she told us that her former spouse had tried to strangle her in the kitchen and that it had become unbearable for her to go into this room and even to go into her apartment. We must therefore provide answers to these women. The Government has created 4000 additional accommodation spaces since 2017, an increase of 80 per cent over five years. At the end of the year, 9,000 places will therefore be allocated to women victims of violence. All the places created since 2020 are dedicated to these women, especially the places open in 2021 – just like those that will be open in 2022. A significant financial upgrading will, in addition to providing them with accommodation, strengthen their support by social workers. And, beyond emergency accommodation, we worked on long-term accommodation. In the context of the Grenelle des violences conjugales, together with my colleague Julien Denormandie, we made sure that with Action logement and the VISALE guarantee – a visa for housing and employment – all women victims of domestic violence could benefit from a guarantor when they wanted to rent an apartment in the private park. The number of social housing units allocated to women victims of domestic violence has increased by 30 per cent in three years. Between October 2019, the beginning of the Grenelle of domestic violence, and September 2021, 20280 social housing units were allocated. I welcome the total mobilization of my colleagues Elizabeth Moreno and Emmanuelle Wargon, Minister for Housing, to make this a reality. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As far as the social workers in police and gendarmerie (ISCG) are concerned, our commitment was to recruit 80 more – and we have been at more than 400 ISCGs throughout the territory since the end of the Grenelle of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u156	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u157	We cannot deny that significant progress has been made in the fight against domestic violence and in the handling of complaints or in the follow-up of victims of such violence, although there are still things to be done, particularly in terms of resources and training. I would like to ask you in particular about the issue of child witnesses of domestic violence. They must live with major psychological consequences, as we know, which can last for a very long time, sometimes even throughout life. On this subject, even if little media attention is given, what measures are being taken by your services to prevent and prevent violence against children within the family? What follow-up, what long-term support is provided for these children? According to the Ministry of the Interior, domestic violence is becoming the first reason for law enforcement intervention. Is the judicial response to the protection of children – which is your responsibility – up to the stakes?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u158	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u159	First of all, with regard to children who are victims of domestic violence or even witnesses of femicide, as with all children who are victims of violence, the Government is mobilizing itself, not only within the framework of the Grenelle des violences conjugales, but also within the framework of the plan to combat violence against children, which stresses, inter alia, the traumatic impact on the child of all forms of violence, and the need to provide it with a space for care and support. In the Ministry of the Interior, it is for this purpose that we, together with the national gendarmerie, have created houses of trust and protection of families – they exist everywhere in the territory. We are in the process of inaugurating many of them to ensure that a space is created in which children can speak – a space called the Melanie Hall, or equivalent, where the words of children who are victims of sexual violence, physical violence, and the words of children who witness domestic violence are gathered. Finally, I really think that the provisions on the question of parental authority, which the parliamentarians voted for and which are the result of a request from associations and professionals on the ground in the context of the Grenelle des violences conjugales, will be very effective once we have established the general observation that a man who strikes the mother of his children cannot, can never be a good father. It is therefore necessary to abandon the model of family mediation in order to make more drastic decisions in the interests of the child and to better protect him or her.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u160	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u161	In France, in 2019, a child would die every five years under the blows of his parents and 400,000 children lived in an environment of domestic violence; In addition, approximately 7,000 complaints of rape of minors are filed annually. In La Réunion, according to a study dating back to 2021, young people under the age of 18 are far more exposed to domestic violence than minors in Hexagon. Still very recently, at the end of November, an attempt at double infanticide defrayed the chronicle. Despite the Grenelle of domestic violence, launched at the end of 2019, domestic violence continues to increase and the number of femicides and infanticides remains high. In La Réunion, there is a lack of legal assistants and there is a need to strengthen specialized investigative services at police stations. Thus, as a result of domestic violence, what relays can be found when children find themselves without parents on nights and weekends? The lack of capacity to deal with these emergencies and post-emergency situations is acute. In addition, there is a lack of social workers in the corners removed from the top of the island. Wait times can be up to eight months. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] As a result, Mr Minister, human and financial resources for associations and for psychological care are more than necessary. They must guarantee free access to psychologists. In addition, it is necessary to empower prosecutors to continue their work, to invest in prevention by, for example, making training in the detection of ill-treatment mandatory, with professionals working with children on a day-to-day basis. In short, what means do you intend to deploy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u162	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u163	I would like to recall how much, with the guard of the seals, we are aware of the peculiarities and difficulties of the situation in La Réunion. I went there at the request of the President of the Republic and was able, together with the elected representatives, the associations and the police, to see how much specific resources were needed in La Réunion. It was after a trip to La Réunion on this subject that the President of the Republic decided to make the 3919 accessible twenty-four out of twenty-four, in order to take account of the island's time lag with the metropolis. We also funded ISCG posts and accompaniments in cooperation with associations. With regard to the special situation of children, I recall that the Government has introduced a graduated care path for those who are victims of violence. Children who witness femicides, such as children who are victims of violence, are referred and cared for by the child-care units in danger (UAPED), which are present throughout the national territory. These units provide an assessment of the child's health status and needs, as well as a follow-up route. Since their creation, 66 UAPEDs have been opened. By the end of 2022, each department, including the overseas departments, will be provided with this. As part of the plan to combat violence against children, we have also increased the number of psychotrauma resource centres throughout the national territory. They complement the provision of care for traumatized children, such as witnessing femicide. Finally, during the Grenelle des violences conjugales, the Government affirmed its willingness to change the rules of parental authority in cases of femicide and domestic violence. The Keeper of the Seals recalled the priority of this action for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u164	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u165	Before I ask you two specific questions, I want to mention a tragedy that has recently occurred in my department and that you have all heard of. Her name was Bouchra, she was 44 years old and she was a mother of two. She was killed by her ex-companion on 26 November in Epinay-sur-Seine, in front of her home. This horrific tragedy has upset us all. This man was known to the judicial services for violence and threats against his ex-partner. For these acts, the court sentenced him to one year's imprisonment, six months of which were closed. As soon as he left, he sought contact with Bouchra, which was strictly forbidden to him. The serious danger phone she had had had had already saved her life, but not on 26 November. Bouchra thought his ex-spouse was still behind bars and no one had informed him that he had been out of prison for a few days. Convinced that she was safe, she did not consider it appropriate to keep her serious danger phone permanently on her. The history of Bouchra is unfortunately not an isolated fact. The evidence of the malfunctioning of our system of protection is terrible since the dangerousness of some men was already the subject of reports before they took action. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, after this tragedy, you announced the publication of a decree making it mandatory for victims of domestic violence to be informed when their ex-spouse leaves prison. My question is simple: What is the status of the decree and circular? It is essential that responsibilities be clearly established in the chain of actors involved in the fight against domestic violence. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier and Albane Gaillot also applaud]] You also referred to the protection orders and pointed out the lack of recovery of victims. You mentioned Ernestine Ronai, an old friend and friend of my department: she was just telling me this afternoon that women need to be certain of being protected to testify, proof that protection orders must be systematized. One, we protect; Two, we judge while guaranteeing the principle of the presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u166	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u167	I agree with you, Mr. Little: to free the word of women, they must be sure of being protected. It is therefore on this point that we must step up our efforts. I said earlier, if she is not aware of anything, if she is not informed, then there is obviously nothing justice can do. We need to continue our reflection on the subject, but we have already taken several steps to better take women's voices into account. I am thinking in particular of the 90,000 trainings organized for gendarmes and police officers within the perimeter of the Ministry of the Interior. The continuing training of magistrates is not nothing! With regard to the case you are referring to, you will understand that I cannot comment on it since the court is seized of it. I said, after the tragedy, that I would take a decree: it was taken on 24 December. The circular is the one previously issued. In a way, the decree came to consolidate the circular. I have him at your disposal, honourable Member, but you will find him easily by yourself. To go faster, however, I will pass it on to you,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u168	I don't want to send it in.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u169	[[Smile]] ...with no recommended shipment!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u170	Mrs Jacqueline Dubois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u171	Since 2017, measures to protect against domestic violence have been improved. In Dordogne, we welcome 15 new emergency accommodation places, i.e. 50 % additional accommodation places, but also the collection of complaints in hospitals, the presence of an ISCG and the deployment of six gravely dangerous telephones. Is that enough, however? In rural departments, women are more isolated, less informed and less protected than in cities, as highlighted in the recent Senate report "Women and rural areas: ending white areas of equality". Nearly half of the femicides take place in rural areas, while rural women account for only one third of the national female population. The identification and protection of victims is more complex because of their social and geographical isolation, lack of mobility, lack of anonymity and lack of knowledge of women's rights and existing mechanisms. Rural areas, in which the gendarmerie is often the only recourse, lack structures. These difficulties are often compounded by precariousness. In view of these findings, I welcome the announcement by Élisabeth Moreno, Deputy Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities, and Joël Giraud, Secretary of State to the Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, responsible for rural development, to release a € 1 million allocation to strengthen the position of associations responsible for informing and caring for women in difficulty and victims of violence in rural areas, whose role is so important. The aim is to develop the "go-to" system for the prevention of domestic violence and the identification of women victims of violence, as well as Sentinel networks against the isolation of victims and for access to housing, mobility and better economic and professional support. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Minister, prevention is the best weapon against violence, but the news too often refers to the inadequacy of the law and of court decisions. Recidivisms are most often deadly. How, therefore, can we ensure compliance with the removal measures and the implementation of instruments such as the serious danger telephone and the anti-approximation bracelet throughout the territory, including in rural areas?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u172	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u173	Thank you for your question, Mrs Dubois, and I share the very right point you have just made. Recently, at a meeting with mayors and elected representatives of the Pays de la Loire, we agreed that it was much more difficult for women victims of domestic violence to have access to support in rural areas than in cities. Associations are often concentrated in urban areas. Access to facilities is particularly difficult in rural areas. That is why we wanted, at the Ministry of the Interior, to experiment with the mechanism for collecting complaints outside the walls, which allows women not to go to the gendarmerie or the police station, where they might be recognised. This concerns both rural and overseas island areas. It should be recalled that half of the femicides were perpetrated in rural areas in 2020 and that victims of domestic violence are facing additional difficulties in these territories because of their isolation and the weakness of the community. To remedy these difficulties and facilitate the extension of good practice throughout the country, a call for expressions of interest was launched. It has been allocated EUR 1 million over two years to complement all other funds devoted to the fight against domestic violence, under the auspices of the State Secretariat for Rural Affairs and in partnership with the Ministry for Equality. This package will support various actions, including the prevention of violence in rural areas, but also the development of associations and the promotion of new actions, such as itinerant buses, that meet women wherever they are, in line with the "go to" approach. Additional resources, amounting to EUR 400000, will be devoted, in programme 137 Equality between women and men of the budget for 2022, to informing women about their rights, including in rural areas. Several measures are planned in your department, the deputy, and the convention "transport of women victims of domestic violence" will allow the transport of victims to secure places by voluntary taxis. This initiative, launched in 2020, will be renewed by the Dordogne Prefecture.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u174	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u175	I welcome the ambition of the law of 28 December 2019 to act against domestic violence and the supplements added in 2020 that will allow real progress on this dramatic subject. As a nurse, I have too often been confronted with the damage, sometimes irreparable, caused by the perpetrators of violence. I take the opportunity of this debate to greet the victims of this violence and their courage when they must stand up against their executioner. I want to tell them that they are not alone and that we are doing everything in our power to protect and accompany them. I also want to greet professionals, caregivers, specialized educators and early childhood educators, who are on the side of the victims every day. I am thinking, in my constituency, of Save 69 and Bron's Departmental Institute for Children and the Family (IDEF), who are doing a remarkable job and to whom I express my gratitude for their commitment. Finally, I would like to remind you that violence is a scourge that affects all segments of French society. A victim is a victim, a executioner is an executioner, regardless of their social status and notability. It is precisely because this scourge infuses the whole social body that it must concern all of us. Everyone can be a victim or a witness. The voluntary sector offers mechanisms to constantly improve the protection and care of victims. I am thinking of the opening of specific courts and the procedure of anonymity for victims who leave the family home. The Grenelle des violences conjugales was one of the great moments of consultation of this legislature and showed all the interest that there is to open the discussion with civil society, always alert on matters that concern it. Minister, how do you intend to maintain this spirit of consultation that is essential to the work of the legislator, both for the arbitrations that it must render and for the monitoring and updating work that it carries out regularly?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u176	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u177	Concertation is indeed a necessity. This conviction has prompted us to launch the Grenelle des violences conjugales, in order to break out of the operation in silos and to foster dialogue and joint work between associations, law enforcement agencies, justice actors, state services and victim associations. I, in turn, want to pay tribute to the associations, which, with few resources and many volunteers, are on the front line, alongside law enforcement and health and justice services, to listen to women, to take charge of them and to accompany them. They inform them about their rights and the mechanisms deployed by the State, to which they give their full meaning by making them known to women. Since the Grenelle des violences conjugales, we have constantly consulted and listened to associations on the ground. This morning, together with Mr Le Custody of the Seals and Mrs La Meurthe-et-Moselle's Deputy Minister for Gender Equality, Diversity and Equal Opportunities, we chaired the Local Committee for Victim Assistance (CLAV) of the Meurthe-et-Moselle, in which are represented the associations of victims, France victims, the information centres on women's and families' rights (CIDFF), the various services of the State and justice, and the law enforcement agencies. Our debate this evening is about monitoring the implementation of the law to act against domestic violence. The working groups of the Grenelle des violences conjugales continue to meet regularly under the auspices of the ministers concerned. They are also bodies for monitoring and monitoring the implementation of this law and often make constructive criticisms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u178	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u179	In just three days, three femicides already mourn this beginning of the year. It's unbearable. All my thoughts go to these women and their loved ones. I have a special thought for Eleonore's family, a soldier in Anjou, stabbed by his former companion on January 1st. Hundreds of thousands of women were also victims of domestic violence. We must do much more to combat this scourge. The policy against domestic violence has been reinforced by measures taken by the Grenelle. The law of 28 December 2019 to act against domestic violence has also made progress, but we must now deploy additional resources. I therefore propose five further strong measures to the Government. First of all, places of reception, listening, support and information for women victims of violence and their children should be established in each territory. These places open twenty-four out of twenty-four, seven days out of seven, would operate on the model of the Citad'elles structure of Nantes. Secondly, I would like to see specialized accommodation offered to every woman forced to leave the marital home, by multiplying by two the number of such accommodation. Today, four out of ten women find themselves without a solution; Let us invest more resources in sustainable housing and deploy the experiments that were provided for in the law. Thirdly, continued efforts should be made to house perpetrators of violence and to accompany them psychologically, socially and judicially. Sixteen centres were to be opened, but the monitoring of their deployment is not accurate enough. Fourthly, let us strengthen education for equality between women and men. Finally – this is the fifth point – all this cannot be without the billion public euros demanded by the associations: where is it? Violence against women is everywhere, in every territory. I have visited gendarmerie in Maine-et-Loire, in which on certain days all the complaints lodged concern domestic violence. Let us give ourselves a new objective, scan it, let us concretize it; let us carry out new measures, let us make France a "zero femicide" country!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u180	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u181	First of all, I want to share with you one observation: education and prevention are the key. This is why Prime Minister Jean Castex and the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, Jean-Michel Blanquer, announced the creation this year of a week of equality girls-boys at school, which will make it possible to raise awareness of domestic violence, including by involving associations and members of the police forces. On the issue of housing and housing, the Government was fully engaged. We have created 4000 accommodation spaces since 2017, an increase of 80% over five years. All places created since 2020 are dedicated to victims of domestic violence; they have benefited from a significant financial recovery. Beyond emergency accommodation – I mentioned earlier – we have also mobilized ourselves to ensure that long-term accommodation is possible, both in the private park with the VISALE guarantee, granted by Housing Action, which guarantees for women victims, but also thanks to the increase of 30% in the allocation of social housing to women victims of violence in three years. In order to better deal with perpetrators of domestic violence – this was an innovation of the Grenelle des violences conjugales – we have also acted since 2020 thanks to the launch of a call for projects that allowed the creation of the first eighteen centres for the care of perpetrators of violence. More than 3,000 male perpetrators of domestic violence have been welcomed and taken care of to better prevent their recidivism; This is coupled with a listening line run by the FNACAV – National Federation of Associations and Centres for the Care of Domestic and Family Violence Authors. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr President, since you are referring to the gendarmerie you have visited, let me end by welcoming the action of the police forces. I would like to point out here that, on 400 occasions every week, police officers and gendarmes respond to calls from women or children and intervene to save their lives in the face of domestic or domestic violence, very often at the risk of their lives. I end by thinking about the three gendarmes of Ambert, who were killed in intervention as they came to save the life of a woman who was threatened with femicide by her companion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u182	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u183	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the bill strengthening the tools for managing the health crisis and amending the public health code (No. 4857, 4858).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u184	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u185	We would like to make a point of order based on rule 48, paragraph 11, on the agenda of our Assembly, to know what the real intentions of the Government are and whether it intends to propose a new text. The situation is particularly serious, and we are studying a particularly important text concerning the health crisis; We have just learned from the words of the President of the Republic that he had spoken of a text intended to "wrong" the French, especially the non-vaccinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u186	It's outrageous, unworthy! We want to know if we are here to amend legislation to "wrong" non-vaccinated people; If we have to amend them for less trouble, or amend them for more trouble.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u187	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and LR groups as well as on several benches of the FI group and among non-attached Members]] We are here in the National Assembly to try to find the best way out of the health crisis and to ensure that everyone has access to the vaccine, in order to avoid the saturation of our hospitals and to help our caregivers. We therefore ask that the Prime Minister come here to explain the real agenda and the intentions of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u188	Mr Christian Jacob has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u189	Mr Minister for Solidarity and Health, I would like to ask you, if you will give me a second attention. Of two things one: either the law obliges each French person to be vaccinated and, in this case, everyone must submit to it; either it does not oblige them to do so – it seems to me to be the case – and then a President of the Republic cannot make the statements that have been made,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u190	He has to apologize!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u191	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] ...that is, to declare that the only objective is to "wrong" the French. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Understand that we are all, here, driven by the same will to get out of the crisis, even if the sensitivities probably differ about the vaccination pass. For my part, I am in favour of it. But I cannot endorse a text that aims to "wrong" the French. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR Group as well as on a few benches of the GDR Group and among the non-attached Members]] So, minister, do you, in accordance with the wishes of the President of the Republic, stand before us and defend your text with the sole aim of "wronging" the French? Is that your will, yes or no? We must have an answer and we cannot continue to debate without you having answered this question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u192	The floor is for Mr David Habib, for a point of order which, I imagine, also concerns the agenda...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u193	Yes, Mr President, my point of order is also based on Rule 48, paragraph 11. This afternoon, the Minister of Solidarity and Health reminded us with seriousness that there were almost 300,000 positive cases today. We were able to see that, in the face of this very serious situation, the Government was ready to hear a number of proposals that we made, and the one that was made by President Rabault was heard and recorded – we took note of the progress that was being made. [[Applause from the SOC, GDR and LR groups as well as from non-attached Members]] We therefore did not expect that, in the evening, a Parisian newspaper would mention such staggering statements by the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u194	He's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u195	[[Same movements]] I say here, a President of the Republic, through his mission, his responsibilities and his contract with the nation, does not have to "wrong" the French; He may have to convince them, force them, but not piss them off.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u196	Macron quit!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u197	[[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] I am, Mr.Minister, very supportive of the vaccine pass, and you know that – I tabled a bill to that effect in December 2020, and I withdrew it because we did not have enough doses. So I'm not the one who will take the initiative, but I can't accept such a situation and we ask you to tell the Prime Minister to come...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u198	Mr Habib, you are entering the bottom of things; Your remarks are no longer a point of order. Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u199	My point of order is also based on Rule 48, paragraph 11, on the agenda of our House. A president shouldn't say that. It has been a significant number of hours, Mr Minister, that we have been here in this House trying to clear up sensitive issues, which divide our fellow citizens, such as the interest of vaccination of children, the vaccination pass and the health pass. Once again, whatever opinion one may have on these various measures and on the strategy of the Government, these are important and serious issues, which deserve to be measured, especially by the Head of State,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u200	He'll have to apologize!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u201	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group as well as on several benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] ... which guarantees not only institutions but also national unity. For several weeks and months, however, he has shown, by statements that are completely unacceptable, astounding and uncontrolled, an inconsequence that does not allow us to continue to sit. That is why we are going to ask that the meeting be adjourned at midnight, as should be the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, between 18.00 and 20.00, we have worked well, in a spirit of compromise. I think we can try to continue the work in this way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u204	I will therefore call on the various amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u205	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u206	This afternoon, the Assembly continued its discussion of the articles of the bill, concluding with Amendment No. 491 to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u207	[[Very strong exclamations on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 491. You have the floor, Mr. Dupont-Aignan. Don't you take it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u208	If I take it, Mr President, and I say that you should listen to the requests for a point of order that are expressed, because the words of the President of the Republic dishonor his office and our Assembly. [[Continuous exclamations, covering the voice of the speaker, on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] You, members of the majority, are actually there to satisfy the whims of a president who dares to say to the French: "Unvaccinated people, I very much want to piss them off", in other words a president who dares to attack millions of French people and deprive them of freedom. That's the reality! How can we sit with dignity when the President of the Republic despises the French, divides them and uses the scapegoat's strategy to mask the failure of his health policy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u209	Mr. Thierry Michels started filming in the Chamber! I would like to remind you of the solemn order, Mr. Michels! You're conversing with the mess in this house, it's absolutely unacceptable! Mr Dupont-Aignan, you have therefore tabled your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u210	Call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u211	[[Many members of the GDR and FI groups stand up and continue to exclaim very strongly. – Claps of desks on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, gave the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u212	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u213	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u214	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u215	[[Same movements]] Amendments Nos 561 by the rapporteur and 517 by Mr Nicolas Meizonnet, which may be submitted to a joint debate, are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u216	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u217	Sitting suspension!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u218	We also ask to talk, from the beginning! We raised our hand!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u219	The sitting suspension is on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u220	[[Applause on the SOC, FI, GDR and LR benches]] Under rule 48 of our Rules of Procedure, I ask for a suspension of the sitting so that the minister can find the answer to the questions that we asked him about the nature of the bill we are debating tonight. Is it a text that aims to protect the health of the French, or to "wrong" them? Minister, we are waiting for your answer and I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u221	I will allow the minister to speak, after which I shall suspend the sitting. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u222	I'll answer you if you like.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u223	The suspension is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u224	[[Very strong exclamations on the benches of the LR, GDR and FI groups]] The minister is speaking! Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u225	I want to talk, but I wanted to make sure the answer would be heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u226	The answer is in Le Parisien!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking me if we have come together to study, examine and, I hope, vote – and as soon as possible – a text aimed at curbing the circulation of the virus in our country. I think everyone here has the answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u228	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u229	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Very strong exclamations on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We have been debating for two days now about the goal we have set ourselves, that of preventing French people from falling ill, French people from going to hospital in large numbers, our caregivers from being overwhelmed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u230	We're listening to the minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u231	[[Many Members of the LaREM and Dem groups stand up and applaud at length]] ... that emergency services and hospital services are overwhelmed, that resuscitation services are saturated. [[Very strong exclamations on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We all know here – no one, without exception, can deny it – the evil that is gnawing our country in the face of an epidemic that is circulating heavily: it is a vaccination that, although important, is still insufficient. Indeed, millions of our compatriots still refuse to be vaccinated, some because they are far from vaccination, others because they do not feel concerned about the threat of the virus, others because they refuse – as I said myself – the idea of science and what it can bring to improve the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u232	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u233	[[Continuous exclamations on the benches of the LR group]] [[Strong protests on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] I will not enter into semantic debates. I would gladly send you, ladies and gentlemen of the right, to the formula of President Pompidou who did not shock anyone at the time and who even entered the customs of the French. If you read in detail the interview of the President of the Republic in Le Parisien who will be released tomorrow morning, you will see that his intention is above all to protect the population. We've been arguing for two days...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u234	Liar! Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u235	...of those French people who are unprotected and exposed to the virus.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u236	We asked for a session suspension! She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u237	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] While we have counted nearly 300,000 contaminations today, I believe that the urgency for national representation is to allow us to find solutions to protect the French. That's the warrant they gave you. We'll be up to it again tonight. The discussions were of good quality this afternoon, we found consensus and we will continue to work in this harmony. The French are watching us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u238	A suspension of the sitting has been requested, it is of right, and it does seem necessary to me. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u239	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to allow all sensitivities to speak on the substance of the debate, I will give the floor to representatives of groups who wish to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u240	No! I'm asking for a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u241	I'll give you the floor, Congressman! This will allow everyone to speak for three minutes, which seems to me to be a reasonable time and compatible with our time constraints. The Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, who is here, will then respond.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u242	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u243	With all due respect, Mr President, this is not an intervention on behalf of a group, but a point of order on the basis of Rule 48. I shall then refer to the first paragraph of Article 13. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on some benches of the LR group]] The President of the Republic made a deliberate choice: to break into the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u244	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u245	[[Same movements]] He gave a written interview that was reviewed and verified by his team. It is therefore not a slip: the President of the Republic has made the deliberate choice to hysterize the debate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u246	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u247	... perhaps betting on the fact that the opposition would leave the Chamber. But we will continue to occupy these benches to fulfill our responsibilities. [[Extended applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC, IUD-I, LT and FI groups]] The second time we are elected deputies, our role is to represent all the French: those who voted for us as well as the others, those who are vaccinated as well as those who are not. With his intolerable, unacceptable remarks, the President of the Republic has just distorted the text before us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u248	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u249	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC, LT and FI groups]] It was our understanding that this bill was intended to effectively combat the crisis that struck us two years ago. We have just understood, when reading the words of the President of the Republic, that his object is not sanitary: it is to piss off the French, to spread the country and to break society! It is – allow me this metaphor that will perhaps enlighten you on the turn that will follow the debates – of a health Benalla. We're in the same register!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u250	Damn it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u251	You're not making a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u252	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, SOC and FI groups]] [[Same movements]] I therefore ask for a suspension of the meeting to allow the Prime Minister to come to inform the national representation on the Government's objectives. Is the text before us based on health objectives, or on political objectives for the hysterization of the debate within French society?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u253	[[Protests on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] I wrote down your request. Mrs Panot also wanted to speak. Mr. Jacob?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u254	The suspension is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u255	[[Members of the FI and GDR groups stand up and protest strongly]] A little patience, colleagues! I had suggested that the representatives of the various groups should speak. Mr Gouffier-Cha, for example, had asked for the floor. Colleagues, the suspension of the sitting you have requested is a matter of law and will take place. Quite simply, several groups had expressed the wish to intervene. [[Same movements]] No one seems to be asking for the floor, I give it to the minister. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u256	[[The continuing exclamations of MPs from the FI and GDR groups cover the Minister's voice]] This bill is the twelfth piece of legislation to deal with the health crisis that I am defending before you. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u257	First, a suspension!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u258	There's a rule in this assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u259	I am sure that we can listen to each other during this brief period of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u260	The suspension is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u261	[[The exclaims of Members of the FI and GDR Groups continue]] We are looking at, I said, our twelfth text of the management of the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u262	We're listening to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u263	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Members of the FI and GDR groups stand up and protest]] All right. First, what we refuse – and that is the meaning of our commitment – is to let our fellow citizens die when we can avoid it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u264	We will suspend the sitting after the Minister has spoken, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u265	[[Continuous exclamations on the FI and GDR benches]] We refuse to deprive the French of essential care or surgical operations because we do not find beds to treat them in time and in time. We refuse to saturate our hospitals to the detriment of the health of the French. [[Same moves. – Several members of the LR group are slamming their desk]] [[The tumult covers the minister's remarks, which become inaudible]] The solution to avoid this situation exists, it is in our hands: it is vaccination. A person who is fully vaccinated has a 20-fold lower risk of being hospitalized for a serious form of covid than a person who is not. More than 90% of the eligible population has now chosen vaccination. Just under 10% of our compatriots still refuse the vaccine. We are making every effort to convince them: more than 1500 vaccination centres have been opened,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u266	Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u267	... more than 200,000 caregivers administer the vaccine daily in the city, associations are mobilized...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u268	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u269	[[The tumult continues]] It seems to me that I am heard when I speak in the microphone, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u270	I will give you the floor later, but the situation is not sustainable. We therefore suspend our work for ten minutes. I invite the representatives of each group to join me in discussing the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u271	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u272	[["Ah! » on various benches]] The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the sitting, I refer only to the Rules of Procedure and the Conference of Presidents. The meeting was held today, in the presence of all the group chairmen – unless I am mistaken – the committee chairmen and vice-chairmen. No objection to the continuation of the work was then made. In fact, the discussion resumed this afternoon, and we then worked well, before continuing this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u273	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u274	[[Protests on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups. – Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] What is happening outside the Chamber, I do not know. I only know what is happening in the Chamber. We will therefore continue our work as far as possible. If it is not possible to continue, we will stop. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a further point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u275	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u276	The meeting was resumed. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-04-O1109.u277	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further discussion of the draft law strengthening the tools for managing the health crisis and amending the public health code; Debate on the report of the Public Policy Review and Control Committee on the evaluation of public health prevention policies. The meeting is adjourned.
