ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u1	The next item is the final reading of the bill strengthening the tools for managing the health crisis and amending the public health code (No. 749).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u2	Before giving the floor to the Deputy Minister, I should like to inform you that we have already devoted 13 hours and 15 minutes of work in committee and 35 hours and 25 minutes of examination in a public meeting during the various readings.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u3	Most often at night!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u4	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u5	Here we are for the final reading of the bill strengthening the tools for managing the health crisis. In view of the intense debates that have taken place in recent days, during the various stages of the parliamentary shuttle, I will be brief in introducing this final stage of examination of the text. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] First of all, I would like to pay tribute to those many in this House who, since the beginning of the examination of the text and for very long months, have been at the meeting to adopt the measures that the circumstances required in order to protect the health of our citizens. The task we have had since the beginning of the epidemic is immense. Everyone, I know, fully measures it. The period we are going through mobilizes qualities and values that are the greatness of a nation and that are the honour of our institutions. It is now up to you to adopt the text definitively, in a spirit of responsibility, keeping intact our demand to protect the French against a virus that is circulating at very high speed and has already caused so many deaths and sacrifices. The French look at us and listen to us. They expect us to rise from the height and – I must remind you – that we serve the general interest. The term raz-de-marée has been used to refer to the wave that is currently falling on France. The expression has nothing to do with the fact that yesterday we had more than 320,000 new cases, 24,000 hospitalizations and nearly 3,900 people in critical care. Nearly one in five tests was positive last week. This unprecedented situation requires composure and requires us to shoulder our responsibilities to continue to manage an epidemic that is still virulent and lasts for almost two years. [[Murmurs on various benches]] To deal with this, the bill reinforces several existing measures, which have already allowed us to contain the epidemic and to avoid more radical choices, to which several European countries have been forced after taking different decisions to manage the crisis. I will not go back in detail to the content of this text, which has already mobilized you very much. I would just remind you that it is based on what we know about the virus and on the tools we have to combat it effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u6	Please listen to the Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u7	This is the case with the transformation of the health pass into a vaccine pass, which will make it possible to reconcile the maintenance of the various activities, with a high level of protection against the virus, and to increase the incentive to vaccination. In addition, and in order to increase the effectiveness of the pass, the text also strengthens its control procedures and the means of combating fraud. With the same concern to ensure the protection of all French people, including in their workplaces, the draft law provides for a specific mechanism to ensure that employers comply with their preventive obligations. I am thinking in particular of teleworking. These provisions will, after notice, make sanctions more credible for the small minority of employers who do not play the game, in the interests of effective protection of workers and fairness between companies. Finally, the text before you includes several accompanying measures directly related to the management of the health crisis, in order to enable our health system to cope with the upsurge in the epidemic and with several activities to adapt to the situation – this concerns, for example, the way in which the foundations jury is set up or the organisation of public service competitions. You have significantly improved this bill. I would like to pay tribute to the work of parliamentarians, who have made important contributions to the text. I am thinking first of all of the application of the vaccination pass to minors: the proposals of the two assemblies have made it possible to clarify the arrangements and simplify their application, in order to achieve a balance on this issue which, of course, is dear to many parliamentarians. I also welcome the adoption of provisions to extend to minors between the ages of 5 and 11 the rules applicable to their elders with regard to parental authorization, in order to facilitate the conduct of screening and vaccination operations. You have also clarified the procedures for verifying the identity of the pass holder in order to remove some concerns that the device may have raised, which I welcome. Finally, I would like to mention the adjustment of the employer sanction scheme adopted by your House on a new reading to ensure its proportionality, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. The text resulting from your deliberations is a balanced text, enriched and adapted to the gravity of the circumstances as well as to the democratic requirement, which has never left us, or to the protection of individual freedoms, in a context of unprecedented health threats. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I would like to thank your assembly for its unwavering mobilization and commitment, which allowed us to review and adopt this important text in a time-bound manner to protect the French. I know that you will be on the rendezvous again and that the spirit of responsibility will eventually prevail because, in the storm, cohesion is not an option, and particular interest does not have its place.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u8	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u9	After passing the bill again on Saturday morning, our assembly is meeting this Sunday to consider it for final reading. The choice is simple: to adopt the version voted yesterday or to incorporate the only two points of persistent divergence between the two chambers. I am referring to the amendments adopted by the Senate and tabled again by some of our colleagues in order, on the one hand, to remove the checking of the concordance of documents and, on the other hand, to waive the possibility of imposing administrative fines. We have discussed these two issues at length. I am now announcing this: I am not in favour of these amendments. The text resulting from our meeting corresponds, with a few drafting changes, to the one adopted in committee on Thursday evening. It is balanced, enhances the readability of measures applicable to minors and ensures that the pass is fully operational. With regard to the verification of the consistency of the documents submitted and the administrative fines, some mislead the terminology used, pretending to be imprecise, or pretending to believe that this verification will not be. To these, I would point out that we have chosen the exact wording adopted by the Senate Law Committee and proposed by its rapporteur Philippe Bas. The terms are precise and already exist in the legislation in force. What are we talking about? A measure necessary to combat health fraud and validated by the Council of State. There is no question of delegating police powers or prerogatives reserved for the forces of law and order: it is simply a question of allowing a trader or a professional to verify that the pass which is presented to him relates well to his holder, without any other consequence, in the event of discordance, than the refusal of the service.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u10	What's the point, then?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u11	I would point out that the professionals concerned can already verify the identity of their customers or users when they sell alcohol – in a bar or grocery store –, when a customer pays by cheque, or when they project a film subject to an age criterion. A merchant acting as a relay point also carries out exactly the same procedure when one wishes to pick up a parcel there: he verifies, on the basis of an official document, that the person presenting himself is the person to whom the parcel is intended. Let us also stop pretending that administrative fines, which we have already reduced by half, would be stigmatizing. Administrative fines, much heavier than those proposed, already exist to ensure the protection of workers' health. What does Article 1 bis A say? It simply provides that in the event of failure to comply, after a notice of formality with a time limit and once the finding of the persistence of such failure has been made, an administrative fine may be imposed, instead of criminal proceedings, which may prove to be too traumatic. The aim of this procedure – albeit faster, but always subject to the principle of adversariality and which may be subject to a suspensive remedy – is to maximise the protection of workers' health. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In short, I invite you to confirm your vote yesterday morning and to adopt this balanced and robust text, in order to strengthen our tools to combat the pandemic and protect the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u12	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. On the motion for a preliminary rejection, I am seized of a request for a public vote by the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u13	"This morning, people over the age of 65 who have not received their third dose will be disabled. Listening to this phrase on the radio in mid-December, I thought that we had plunged, in a few months, into a science fiction scenario, in a universe that even Orwell had not imagined: because their vaccination status is not up to date – but, finally, no matter what the pretext is, whether it is vaccination or another – their QR code is no longer valid and millions of French people can no longer access bistros, restaurants, libraries, cinemas, or TGVs. One day or almost the next, since last summer, you have improvised a digital sorting. You have quietly carried out a massive exclusion. You created a sub-citizenship. "An irresponsible person is no longer a citizen," said the President of the Republic. I will not reproach him for his sincerity: he says, in the end, what he is doing – what you are doing – for now a year. And, you can flatter yourself, your work is bound to last. Because no, the tool you propose to create will not be temporary or temporary: with you, we will not get out of it. In this bill, you have refused to set an end date, and because there will be none. Hannah Arendt warned us: "It is in the void of thought that evil is inscribed. » The emptiness of your mind is frightening! You are a break, a major break with equality and citizenship. It's basically a real social project that you're defending. But how do you do it? You are acting like I am, through a series of slides, like on a slide, without thinking about the place of technology in democracy. You decide with automatic votes, the outcome of which is guaranteed by your plethoric majority. You legislate on the basis of arguments provided by the departments. You do it with a good reason: the emergencies are overloaded, so it's about saving lives. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] We are contesting this argument. We challenge the health purpose of your passes. We contest it, because there were a thousand other ways to fight: the FFP2 masks, the self-tests, the filters, the aerators, the "go towards", the lifting of patents and, above all, a strengthened hospital, rather than diminished by the billions of savings and the closures of beds that you imposed on it. We are contesting it, because the only dike you raise to stop the wave is control, fines and truncheons. But whatever it is, let's admit it's about saving lives. Power will always find good reasons. It will always be, in the name of the health context, of safety, and perhaps, tomorrow, of ecology, of saving lives. The first step is taken, the principle is accepted and you will see: this technique will now be refined. In a thousand places, on a thousand criteria – health, diploma, age, wallet, or even, we know, blood type – we will be sorted by cell phone, depending on whether we are smokers or non-smokers, drinkers or non-drinkers, motorists or not. What's the limit? Who will set limits? Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, told us the truth: "This crisis offers the opportunity for even more voluntary transformation." This transformation that he wants and that you are leading is based on a mixture of technology and sociology. It is the symbol of the start-up nation that, with opportunism, imposes its applications at every moment of our lives. It is the result of a hyperclass of graduates, fortunes, "digits", who relegates as sub-citizens the "people who are nothing" – not only the unvaccinated, but also the disconnected, modest, precarious, yellow vests and the vanquished of globalization, which no longer belong fully to the nation. Here's your plan! Most of us came here almost five years ago. This Sunday, with this law, probably comes the time of the balance sheet, the hour of a moral balance. You were new women and men, you pretended to embody civil society, you were going to "renew public life"... and on arrival, I look at you as Dorian Gray before his portrait...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u14	Come on, stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u15	[[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] Your faces, externally, have not grown old, I assure you... but your souls? What have you done with your souls? What are you inflicting on them, when you've been advancing for a year with successive lies? "I said, I repeat, vaccination will not be compulsory," says Macron; Then, in April: "The sanitary pass will never be a right of access that differentiates the French", before the famous "I very much want to piss them off". What do you inflict on your souls when you instigate political deceit with pride and cynicism? What do you do with your souls this Sunday again, when you are going to vote for the control of all by all, everywhere, in bars and in stations, by servers and by the openers, and even when the Defender of Rights is alarmed that this project accentuates a little more the shrinking of our freedoms, and that you find only the huer? There is in all this the banality of evil that Hannah Arendt evoked!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u16	What a shame! That's not possible!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u17	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds. – Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group]] We'll be a minority here telling you no. We may also be a minority outside, but it will be our honour and pride to say no to this disastrous project for the future!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u18	The reality isn't that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u19	In explanation of vote on the motion to reject the motion, the floor is for Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u20	Because the virus is still growing at a staggering speed, with a positivity rate of over 15% in some regions, and our responsibility is to protect the French, the Agres ensemble group will vote against this motion of rejection. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Ruffin, our soul is well, and she invites us, in conscience, to vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u21	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u22	The reasons why our group tabled this motion to reject the bill are many, starting with the ineffectiveness of this legislation, this tool to combat the pandemic. Is it sensible, seeing the ineffectiveness of the health pass, to believe that the vaccination pass can stop the pandemic? When the CNIL – the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – asks the Government about the effectiveness of the system, it does not answer! It is therefore hypocritical to make believe in the effectiveness of the only strategy of the all-vaccine to, as the Minister of Health says, "save the lives of the French". He himself lifted this hypocrisy by saying that vaccination of all must avoid the saturation of hospitals. That's the real goal! Let me say that the political logic and philosophy behind this objective are irresponsible but also odious, as they make the non-vaccinated responsible for the congestion of hospitals, when it is your policy of weakening the hospital that is the cause. You thus stigmatize six million of our fellow citizens, against whom you mount the rest of the population through your propaganda, while the Ministry of Health no longer even takes the trouble of a serious "go to" to have people immunized from the care. They are mainly odious because, since its defence board bunker, the Government does not even attempt to clarify the data and sources that underpin its policy, and does not organise any contradictory debate between scientists on benefits and risks, while this would remove the legitimate concerns of our fellow citizens; But the Minister of Health prefers to oppose his contempt for those whom he calls a stoning "conspirators"! Your appropriate minister, Mrs Bourguignon, clears himself of everything; The only logic that enlivens him, as always, is that of coercing and punishing, creating controversy and zizany at the expense of all fundamental rights. Here's your rationality, here's your science! And let me not be told about the debates held in this House to make believe in the vitality of our democracy: this is not how it is measured, but the quality of the arguments exchanged. However, the Government has not had any of them so far. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] These are the reasons why the members of La France insoumée will obviously vote for this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u23	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u24	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote on this motion of rejection for several reasons. First of all, we are wondering, and we have already said so here, about the real intentions of the Government with this bill. Indeed, every day, the scientific community gives information that shows how useless this text is because it is ineffective in combating the pandemic. On the other hand, we can see its usefulness for the President of the Republic and for the Government, since it allows, as the presidential election approaches, to focus the debate on the covid, and above all, to break up, divide the French, pointing at and stigmatizing part of them. I would like to say, in order to be elected from the metropolitan department which has had the highest mortality rate and which today has the lowest vaccination rate, that fighting for vaccination on the ground goes above all through compassion, understanding, attentive listening and argumentation. This is how one manages to convince, not by pointing fingers and robbing people often distant from society, of health devices. Secondly, we regret that our amendments proposing to exempt young people between the ages of 16 and 18 from the vaccination pass were rejected. While everyone knows that young people are suffering greatly, that they need to engage in sports and cultural activities, we do not understand why the Government and the Commission refused them. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups as well as on several SOC benches]] Finally, we note that there is nothing about the public hospital, and nothing about the lifting of patents, when we are faced with a global pandemic: how can we imagine that France will persist in refusing the lifting of patents, relying on the World Trade Organization, while 85% of the inhabitants of the African continent are not vaccinated?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u25	We've already answered!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u26	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u27	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Jean-Luc Reitzer also applauds]] I salute the President, whom I am delighted to be in this Chamber after he has been one of those women and men for whom we must fight. And the best way to fight covid is vaccination. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As I invite us to reject this motion, I have in mind that on Friday, 700000 people were vaccinated, 85000 of them for the first time. I tell you, Mr Ruffin: the fight you are leading is already lost because the French know what is happening and are mobilizing to defend our society in what it has in common and collective by choosing vaccination. And this text will both accompany and protect them. That is the whole meaning of the commitment of our Republic Group on the move. Our debates were numerous, provided – the president recalled the total length of our debates – with incidents, but they allowed us to express our disagreements. It is now time for this text to be promulgated in order to protect the French. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Ruffin, you spoke of the soul of the deputies of the majority... Look deep into yours before inviting us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u28	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u29	[[Same movements]] And since you like The Portrait of Dorian Gray, I gladly grant you that you have used skillfully for four and a half years, here, the special status of an artist, more specifically an actor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u30	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u31	It's better than being an Playmobil!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u32	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] Oscar Wilde said that "for the artist, thought and language are the instruments of an art". You are using it skillfully, Mr. Member, but it is not that, being a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u33	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u34	The Group of the European People's Party will vote against this motion for a preliminary rejection tabled by the Group of the European People's Party because we do not find ourselves in the arguments that have been put forward and that we wish, in a responsible way, to go until the end of the parliamentary debate, that is to say, at the end of this third and final reading, which brings us together this Sunday afternoon, many on the benches of the House. This will once again give us the opportunity to develop certain arguments and to defend amendments on alert points, to introduce useful and necessary advances in the bill but also, more generally, in the strategy to combat the spread of the virus. We will therefore come back to a number of topics, including identity checks and documentary concordance, on which The Republicans have, on numerous occasions, called the alarm bell both in the Assembly and in the Senate. We will also come back to the issue of trigger thresholds and the issue of time bounding of the vaccine pass. Finally, we will, of course, mention these administrative sanctions, which we consider to be a breach of confidence in the relationship between the State and companies, which will be extremely penalized by these fines, if they do not comply with all the new teleworking standards. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] For all these reasons, the Republican Group wishes, I repeat, to be able to conduct the debate calmly, as it has done since the beginning of the examination of the draft, and we will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u36	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u37	On behalf of my Group, Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, I welcome you once again to this House, Mr President. We missed you. Of course, we will vote against this point of order, if only for the good reason that, after a moment, the motion of rejection kills the motion of rejection. But France's insoubted can only do that. Secondly, we make two observations, which I believe is shared by almost everyone: the list of patients admitted to resuscitation is almost entirely filled with unvaccinated people, while they had the opportunity to receive a vaccine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u38	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u39	No, they're only 40%!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u40	You're not going to start, Mrs. Obono, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u41	I'll keep going!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u42	The other certainty is that the vaccine is the only way, today, to protect oneself against the serious forms of the disease... the most serious of which is death. Dear colleagues from France, if we had listened to you since the beginning of this pandemic, we would have been several tens of thousands, even several hundred thousands more dead...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u43	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u44	... because you voted against almost everything we proposed, including the introduction of the health pass. On the other hand, you were for hydroxychloroquine! I'm just wondering, Mr. Ruffin, if you're not against vaccination! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] To conclude and paraphrasing President Mélenchon, I do not know if we are the useful morons of the Republic but, as far as I am concerned, you are the good for nothing of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u45	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u46	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u47	Whether we are for the vaccination pass, or against – as is the case with the IDU and independent group – we need our exchanges and debates to continue with respect for the other, so that he can express his thoughts. We will therefore oppose this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u48	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u49	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 208 Number of votes cast 201 Absolute majority 101 For adoption 21 Against 180
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u50	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Before calling the first speaker on the list, I would like to point out that, for final readings, statements in the general debate are valid explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u51	That's good news!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u52	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u53	Finally, we have been discussing this twelfth health text for less than two years. We mobilized on all the benches of this assembly – quite rightly, I believe – because the stakes were high in the face of this global pandemic. As far as the majority and, of course, the Democratic Group are concerned, we have never changed our objective: to protect the French by all means, by trying, also by all means, to leave the administrations, businesses and schools open so that, despite the obstacles necessary to combat the virus, life is as normal as possible. All the countries have been housed on the same sign, but I do not think we have to be ashamed of what we have done. France is one of the most vaccinated countries in the world because, to date, it is the only real way to fight the virus. Over the months, immunization has proven to be the most effective way to combat the pandemic. Does vaccination eliminate contamination? Definitely not, but she divides them by three. All you have to do is look at the contamination statistics, including the omicron variant, depending on the vaccine status of the person being tested. Does vaccination prevent resuscitation? Neither, but it drastically reduces the risk. A triple-vaccinated person is 30 times less likely to be in resuscitation than a non-vaccinated person. Thanks to its vaccination strategy, France is one of the countries where the school has remained open for the longest time, where confinement times have been the shortest, and where, in the end, the economy has been the most sustained, and whose rebound is the strongest. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Throughout the day, we hear, here as elsewhere on certain social networks, the declineists criticise and challenge everything – rarely, moreover, by proposing an alternative solution. Yet even the Nobel Prize in Economics, Paul Krugman, declared the day before yesterday that, among the major advanced economies, the star of the pandemic era was probably France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u54	Tribute from left to left!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u55	[["Ah! on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I am not without knowing that we are in an election period,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u56	There's someone lucid!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u57	Macron didn't forget!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u58	... but on a subject as fundamental as that of the pandemic, we must speak with a common voice. Everyone who says, "vaccination is effective but..." helps to cast doubt on a number of our fellow citizens. I urge you, let us go beyond our boundaries on this subject and call for vaccination, unreservedly! We still have two issues to deal with today, on which we must not weaken: identity checks and administrative fines. Again, we will take on our responsibilities, as we have done from the beginning. The aim of this text is to further strengthen the vaccination coverage of the population, which is the cornerstone of our strategy to combat covid. We must accompany it with the necessary controls, otherwise we will lose the effectiveness of the vaccination pass. Thus, as my colleague Laurence Vichnevsky said on Friday afternoon, it is our duty to do everything possible to put an end to this health crisis as soon as possible, without being able to put an end to the epidemic. "If all French people were vaccinated," she added, "hospital services, caregivers, would not be harmed as they are today, and schools like our economy and social relations would see their operation greatly facilitated. » [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] That is why, I shall conclude with her, the Democratic and Related Group strongly supports this text, which must remain as an invitation to the non-vaccinated to act for their own good and for that of the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u59	Funny invitation! We've had some nicer ones...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u60	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u61	The seriousness of the crisis, the exhaustion of health professionals, the weariness and extreme fatigue of our fellow citizens are a shared observation, as is the tense and chaotic nature of this parliamentary debate, in a context in which the forces of law and order are obliged to protect elected officials targeted by threats and victims of events which we denounce with the greatest vigour. With regard to the method, the failure of the CMP devotes our inability to build together pragmatic majorities on matters that require it. The text that came out of the Senate at first reading, however, provided a solid basis for compromise, taking up most of our amendments. It would have been useful to continue along this path at the next reading on Friday. I turn to the content of the bill that is before us for final reading and only to the points that we can now amend on reading. The identity check entrusted to the restaurateurs, the coffee makers, had been abolished by all the groups in the Senate, joining our refusal to delegate this control to operators whose role is not to track fraud. This control, which is the responsibility of the public authority, is also left to the sole discretion of the professional, who will be well embarrassed if he finds a failure, the text saying nothing about it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u62	It's inapplicable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u63	The fine imposed on entrepreneurs in the event of non-compliance with the rules on telework is a provision introduced at the sitting, by an amendment of the Government. She doesn't convince us. It places this text in distrust when you have never stopped talking about trust. What are the rules for such a fine? Is it not the concern to relieve the State of its responsibility for the health risks incurred by employees in the context of a pandemic, which commands this provision which is difficult to put in place as much as to understand? As the provision on repentance has been retained, we can no longer ask for its deletion. We did so at first reading, by proposing a rewrite that would not only restore the role of the public prosecutor as regards the advisability of prosecutions in cases of intentional fraud, but also to supervise him within a reasonable time. The Constitutional Council will have to decide on this particular point. Is it not finally the result of this last provision that the text would be more lenient with the fraudsters than with the vaccinated persons who did not take their third dose and exceeded the deadlines? Madam Deputy Minister, will they not be leniency-free and will their vaccination pass be invalidated at the time of the enactment of the law? I would like the Government to respond on this point. More generally, the vaccine remains the only way to protect itself from the serious risks of the pandemic and to preserve hospital care capacity. However, we reject any encouragement to create a social divide with unvaccinated people, who are not outlawed since vaccination is not compulsory. Spain does not have such resistance to the vaccine; city medicine is very present and guarantees confidence in medical speech. The French medical deserts – I recall that there are 10 million citizens without a doctor –, on the other hand, help to set up an unexpected mistrust in Pastor's homeland. Vaccines that are not messenger RNA type must fill their office as soon as possible and offer the alternative hoped for by some. While 85 per cent of Africans are not vaccinated, we know that the pandemic requires a global response. The lifting of patents is our common salvation, but political action is slow to manifest itself. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on some of the GDR benches]] The Socialist and Related Group is unanimously on the path of vaccination, a compulsory vaccination for adults, especially the most vulnerable. This requirement explains, in light of the principle and the manner in which the vaccine pass is applied under the bill, the negative vote of some of us. Others will vote in favour of the text in order to reinforce by all means, including through the vaccination pass, the vaccine and the exit from the health crisis of which it is the tool. However, we are gathered to defend an effective and just line: we will seize the Constitutional Council to ensure that fundamental freedoms are preserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u64	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u65	Ministers, colleagues of the majority, shame on you! From tomorrow, millions of our citizens will be deprived of leisure, culture, sport, travel and, for some, work and even political rights. All for nothing. You decide, from tomorrow onwards, to deprive them of their citizenship by the simple decision of Jupiter, since it is he who considered "irresponsible", therefore unworthy of being citizens, millions of us. Nothing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Starting tomorrow, these millions of French will not be the only ones to be affected, because we are also millions not to be accustomed to having to show a QR code for most daily activities. Nothing. For nothing, since the sanitary pass is already in effect. And you know very well that from the moment the tests are no longer free it is already worth vaccination. Did he stop the ongoing epidemic wave? No! It's so true that you're letting the epidemic go now. You have made decisions to achieve collective immunity, which explains why you have reduced the length of isolation, relaxed the health rules regarding school and why, in fact, you are no longer taking real measures to protect our citizens, especially all those on the front line, such as teachers. You claim that the purpose of the vaccination pass is to relieve the congestion of hospitals, pointing to the responsibility of the non-vaccinated. It's very surprising because, at the same time, you're telling us that the health pass has significantly reduced the number of non-vaccinated people. Why not settle for that if that was really the goal? You can see that he's completely different! In addition, when you feel that protection needs to be strengthened, you double the vaccine with a test, which clearly shows the contradiction of your proposals. Will the vaccination pass reduce the very low number of non-vaccinates? No! No, because many Frenchmen, including those who have already received several doses of vaccine, agree to be convinced but refuse to be forced! No, because 40% of non-vaccinated people do not refuse to be immunized because you have not been able to go to them! No, because the new Novavax vaccine, derived from another technology, will convince many of those who were, most certainly wrongly, wary of messenger RNA. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So why bother the French by discriminating against them at the risk of dividing the population? Because you needed scapegoats for the French to look elsewhere, so they wouldn't look at your health policy, which combines wanderings and mistakes. Didn't you say the masks were useless, at the risk of letting the contamination spread before the first confinement? Did you not say – it was Mr Castex – that a vaccinated person would no longer be in contact, at the risk of letting the epidemic develop? Did you not say, like the president of our assembly himself, that the contaminated were responsible for their own contamination? All this is amateurism and inorganisation! [[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] Of course, you would prefer the French to look elsewhere by pointing to the responsibility of some of our fellow citizens. Actually, for the past two years, you haven't been able to do anything. You have not addressed the problem of health sovereignty: last year, for example, 90% less FFP2 masks were produced in this country than in the first year of the epidemic. Contrary to what you have claimed, you have not resolved the issue of free patents, absolutely essential to a comprehensive strategy – in fact, you are opposed to this solution. Nor have you solved the problem of hospitals, and you continue to close beds: if hospitals are trapped today, it is your responsibility and not that of the non-vaccinated. Shame on you! [[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Shame on you, because in addition you get used to the French and you get used to an abnormal state of emergency yourself. You are the living proof of this: Mr Gouffier-Cha, leader of the majority, explained yesterday that there would never be a question of imposing a daily health pass, because it was dangerous for freedoms; Today, in a demagogic way, he defends a daily vaccination pass. You're getting us used to a society of generalized control, a society of generalized authoritarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, let us know that we do not want this society! These measures pose all the risks because once you put your finger in this gear, you can't go back. We do not want to oppose our fellow citizens; We do not want our fellow citizens to control other citizens. This may be the macronist "at the same time", but it is not our vision of the Republic. It's a huge danger you're running in the country!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u66	Thank you, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u67	I would like to conclude on this subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u68	That's a good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] You risk inflicting a deep and lasting injury on the country; I hope that in April, we will have the opportunity to heal his wounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u70	Mr Coquerel, let me tell you that what you are reporting from my remarks is totally wrong. I challenge you to find a quote that matches the words you lent me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u71	I'll find it for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u72	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I know what you're referring to, but we don't have to keep repeating what social media are saying! Check it out! Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u73	This text certainly does not cease to bring us together for bad reasons. If it is normal for different solutions to manage the epidemic to be proposed on the various benches of this assembly, and if it is normal that the protection of the French requires our full attention and dedication, day and night, and even on the weekend, it is not these considerations that bring us together this Sunday. The text we are looking at is more an economic bill to save the hospital than a health bill. Indeed, its examination was an opportunity to see all the pitfalls faced by the majority: the impossibility of dialogue, both with the oppositions of this assembly and with the Senate; poor organization of the agenda; contempt of Parliament; Political excuse to defeat the CMP; Finally, the President of the Republic's inadmissible media release. All this has been compounded by a total lack of consideration for our fellow citizens, who are witnessing this sad spectacle while still wondering what the Government is preparing for them for the coming days. The conditions of the parliamentary debate reflect the confusion and debacle that you create in our schools – where it was a fiasco and a general chaos – in our hospitals and in our businesses. The vaccination pass, the main measure of the text, could have reached consensus on the majority of the benches of the Assembly and the Senate. Even if this is not my personal position, you know that the IDU and independent group was, at first, in no way opposed to the introduction of this pass. But you have been deaf to any proposals concerning its application. The stumbling points therefore remain the same. As a result, operators of establishments subject to the vaccine pass will have to carry out identity checks, which goes far too far. Nor do we adhere to the controls and fines that the Government wishes to see applied to companies: I doubt that it is up to the labour inspectors to determine which posts are eligible for telework and according to what modalities, a fortiori if the controls – accompanied by far too heavy penalties – are carried out unexpectedly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u74	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u75	The vaccination pass, like any other measure derogating from the common law, must have as its sole objective the protection of the French and French, and the braking of the epidemic – in short, it must be to save lives. The measures taken in this direction must therefore have as a corollary a strict limitation over time, conditions legally regulated by law, and a strictly proportionate use. However, this text of management of the health crisis does not meet these requirements in any way. As with all previous bills, it is not a question of questioning the need for tools, but of avoiding the Government's own decision on such essential matters. We therefore deeply regret that the majority of this House finally has the last word on a text that does not include the most important additions to the Senate. Senators' proposals were proposals of common sense, which would have resulted in a balanced text. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] Moreover – and I would like to insist strongly, like our colleagues in the Centralist Union Group in the Senate – a very important point is not included in the text: the one concerning the conditions for the exercise of democracy. Indeed, no measures are planned to protect our fellow citizens during the vote for the upcoming presidential and legislative elections. Measures should have been planned, as we had done, for example, for regional and departmental authorities. Between the hierarchy of norms and Articles 40 and 45 of the Constitution, we could not introduce any amendments to that effect; It was therefore up to the Government to do so. You are constantly talking about responsibility and democracy; Failure to provide for such measures is highly irresponsible on the part of the Government. Consequently, for both formal and substantive conditions, the majority of the IDU and independent group will oppose the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u76	Mr Paul Molac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u77	So here we are on Sunday for the end of the somewhat chaotic cycle of a bill debated and voted, again, in haste. Beyond the bottom line, this process is a symbol of both the executive's contempt for Parliament and the government's repeatedly denounced wanderings in managing the health crisis. We have always stated that we would be ready to fulfil the mandate entrusted to us by the French to respond to the developments of the crisis that we are going through. We also indicated that we would always be ready to assume our responsibilities and come to sit, even after the parliamentary session, which is due to end at the end of February if necessary, since our mandate runs until June. If it is necessary to preserve the health order, but also – some forget it sometimes – public freedoms, we will respond present. However, I would like to recall that the Government and the majority did not wish to follow up on the re-visitation clause that we proposed in the context of the discussion of the Act of 10 November 2021, containing various provisions of health vigilance, which provided, inter alia, for the extension until 31 July of the current emergency regime and its corollary, the health pass, the effectiveness of which was assessed against the delta and omicron variants. Just a month later, the President of the Republic decided to convene the Parliament as a matter of urgency, in order to impose, this time, the vaccination pass, while epidemiologists indicate that we seem to reach the epidemic peak of the fifth wave and that the contaminations are decreasing – in Île-de-France, this is the case. We can therefore seriously ask ourselves the question of the real efficiency of such a binding measure, not only for individuals who will be subject to restrictions in their daily activities, but also for those who will have the responsibility to enforce it – I am thinking in particular of the professionals in the catering sector, who you have suddenly wished to entrust to them the tasks of checking the identity of their customers. The vast majority of the Libertés et Territoires Group has spoken against the text, and the same will apply to the final vote on the law. Do not see this as a refusal to protect the French, as some have said. We have always been clear about the need to use strict proportionality between the resources committed and the objective. We have always been keen to be vigilant about the reasons that could lead us to restrict fundamental freedoms. Despite repeated requests from, inter alia, CNIL, the Government had not provided any guarantees on the practical effectiveness of a tool such as the health pass, which many neighbouring countries had not considered useful. Nor have we ever had sincere and reasoned explanations about the supposed efficiency of the vaccine pass, while 91% of the eligible population is already vaccinated – even 98% in some departments. All the more so as we have all seen: a complete vaccination scheme does not in any way prevent contamination or transmission, even if it allows – and we look forward to it – to avoid the serious forms of the disease. In fact, the real reason for the vaccination pass was revealed to us when we read an article published in Le Parisien, in which the President of the Republic expressed his wish to "wrong" the non-vaccinated. In our group, we do not design our mandate in this way. We are here to protect the French and to guarantee their freedom, not to raise them against each other by fuelling tensions. The President of the Republic and his majority have confused health and electoral campaigns.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u78	He's the one who was elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u79	All this is very unfortunate, because it affects many of our fellow citizens hard in their daily lives. This is particularly the case for teachers and school staff, but also for caregivers. Again, this law is useless to protect the French from the pandemic; We see this very clearly today. It is an alibi law to clear the Government, and more generally the State, from the lamentable state in which the hospital is located; an alibi law of which I fear it is made, at least in part, to piss off the party Republicans – some of whom are very attached to public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u80	Present!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u81	[[Mrs. Martine Wonner applauds]] [[Mrs Muriel Ressiguier and Martine Wonner applaud]] Finally, it is a law dangerous for our fundamental freedoms, freedom of assembly, freedom of movement, but also the freedom to care as we understand it, since the informed consent of the patient leaves room for a vaccination obligation that does not mean his name. In fact, this obligation is a little shameful: all you had to do was introduce a bill that made vaccination mandatory. We would have been against it, but at least things would have been clear. You'd rather mix everything. We remain opposed to this type of text, and we will soon find that there was no interest in voting on this law at the beginning of January.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u82	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u83	We are meeting this Sunday to vote on an important bill for final reading. We all know the numbers. We hear them all day long, first on the radio, every morning drinking our coffee, then on television, looping on the news channels continuously. We also read them on our phones; Our days are rhythmic by incessant notifications about the virus that, alas, has been poisoning our lives for two years now. The whole political class recognizes the importance of the delta and omicron waves; their sinister sprays spare no one. It's a tidal wave of contamination, and the vaccine is the dike that allows us to protect our caregivers. The time is now; And now it's time! For, even if you never waste time persuading and debating in a great democracy like ours, you also need to know how to decide to act. The text contains important measures: the transformation of the health pass into a vaccine pass; verification of the identity concordance in case of doubt as to the authenticity of the vaccination pass; tougher penalties for holders of false passes, or administrative sanctions against companies that do not comply with the rules enabling them to protect their employees from the virus. The Action Together Group supports all these measures, which are all incentives for vaccination, and supports the Government in this text, which is part of a broader policy of managing the health crisis and containing the epidemic. The democratic debate is taking place. The best example to illustrate the importance of parliamentary debate is that those under the age of 16, who do not have the freedom to choose to be vaccinated, will remain subject to the health pass. It is a common sense adaptation; the rapporteur, the majority and the Government were able to hear the concerns that could have passed through the parliamentary groups, both in the Assembly and in the Senate. The president of my group, Olivier Becht, recalled a very beautiful sentence of Victor Hugo, which I hasten to deliver to you again: "Everything that increases freedom increases responsibility. Being free, nothing is more serious; freedom is heavy, and all the chains it removes from the body, it adds them to the consciousness. This is the whole meaning and gravity of the bas-relief below this rostrum – Janus with both faces; the two sides of the same truth, between freedom and security. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] It is up to us to find the best way for the best protection of our citizens. Yes, the time is now, and now is the time! Taking on its responsibilities, the Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u84	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u85	Since 23 March 2020 and the first state of health emergency, crisis management has been marked by repeated dysfunctions, concealments, a lack of transparency, and the creation of an incomprehensible normative millennium. We are in the twelfth crisis management text and the umpteenth protocol for schools, without any record demonstrating their effectiveness. The French, whether vaccinated or not, are exasperated, as demonstrated by the education staff, all categories combined, and the parents of pupils, in a movement as massive as historical. This unprecedented alliance illustrates the growing ras-le-bol in schools against the lack of consultation, the contradictory injunctions, the apparent contempt of the Minister of National Education, who had no choice, just a few months before the elections, than to give some signs of listening. It is in this context that you have presented us with this text imposing a vaccination pass. Contrary to what you are doing, this pass is not a sanitary tool, a useful instrument, but simply a tool of restraint, an instrument of communication, as the President of the Republic has expressed with such delicacy. Yet the only issue that should drive us all is the protection of the French against the virus. To achieve this, we must implement an effective health policy, not a policy that constantly undermines fundamental freedoms and gives you ever more powers. For this, it is necessary to vaccinate as many as possible but by conviction, reassuring and reinforcing the only effective approach that is: to go to meet each unvaccinated by relying on mayors and actors on the ground. To that end, the State must establish obligations of means and performance, including at the international level. Increasing immunization rates around the world is indeed the best way to prevent the emergence of more transmissible and resistant variants. It is therefore essential to lift patents on covid vaccines. Last June, the President of the Republic expressed his support for it, before agreeing to the position of the European Commission and abandoning the negotiations. Do we not have further proof that it is not the health objective that guides the Government's action? [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] If that were the case, you would have taken measures as simple as the distribution of FFP2 masks, especially for the most exposed trades and the most vulnerable. You would have reinstated free for the screening tests. You'd have deployed air purifiers in schools, and I'll do it. You would also have invested in school medicine and that of forgotten territories, and above all you would have rearmed the hospital. In short, you would have protected our fellow citizens instead of dividing them and distributing punishments like the ten plagues of Egypt. Your text is simply measures of punishment, vexatious measures, measures of prohibition and exclusion, dividing our society into two worlds to serve the established order, that of the civilized, supposedly, against the barbarians. Well aware of the fragility of your device, you have made some modifications to the identity checks by the persons responsible for controlling the vaccination pass, but they do not change anything to the philosophy of the control of all by all, in a purely police logic of managing the crisis. However, the Defender of Rights was already wondering, on 20 July, about the choice to grant public and private companies a form of police power to verify the detention of a "sanitary pass" by their clients. It was already of the view that such supervision should be the responsibility of the public authorities, particularly in view of the risks inherent in the exercise of such a power. The urgency of the health situation in our country must in no way exempt us from imposing safeguards guaranteeing respect for our rule of law. In an unprecedented way, with the setting up of this vaccination pass, you are going to ban millions of French people, those peels, those galls from which all the evil would come. Unlike you, we believe that the best way to continue to advance vaccination, the best way to fight this virus, is to unite, to come together to give each other the best means to fight together. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] That is why, after making proposals, after trying in vain to change your security and authoritarian orientations, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u86	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u87	As we finish our work, I cannot help but rethink the evening of March 16, 2020, when the President of the Republic announced confinement in our country. As we come to the end of this work, which has been intense, sometimes animated, but most of the time of quality, I cannot help but think of all that our country has been through for almost two years. This health crisis, which has affected the countries of the world, is a challenge as we have had little for a long time, a challenge that requires every sacrifice, which puts to the test our economy, our culture, our whole society, our democracy and our living together as well. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group. – Mr. Jean-Luc Reitzer also applauds]] As we finish our work, I can't help but think of our caregivers, all of whom are involved in this terrible ordeal. Thanks to them. We know what we owe them and we must never forget it. I cannot help but think of the victims of the covid, their families, those who, as we speak, are also fighting this terrible disease. Our work, ladies and gentlemen, has been long, bitter, agitated at times, but it was indispensable. Although there are reasons to be optimistic, we are still facing this epidemic, which requires us to strengthen the tools to combat the virus. That is the reason for this text. That is why we are turning the health pass into a vaccine pass, strengthening the control and enforcement mechanisms for barrier gestures and putting teleworking in place in our companies. We do so to protect the health of the French and to allow our caregivers to do their job. As a result of our work, we have clarified and strengthened these arrangements, including the application of the pass for minors: for minors aged between 12 and 15, this will be the health pass; In the case of minors aged 16 and 17 years, because of the possibility of being vaccinated without parental authorization, it will be the vaccination pass. Finally, we have clarified the identity reconciliation mechanism and the sanctions applicable to companies that do not comply with the introduction of telework.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u88	A gas factory!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u89	Before concluding, I would like to stress two key points in this period of crisis. The first is that only the vaccine can get us out of this crisis. We must therefore further increase the vaccination campaign in our country. It has real support for our fellow citizens, but we need to go even further, and the messages about this campaign must be clear. On this point, there is no "but" possible. To those who are not vaccinated, I say one thing: think and make the right decision, thinking about your surroundings, our society, the other and our caregivers. The second point concerns our living together and our democracy. In our country, all opinions can be expressed, all debates can take place; decisions are taken in accordance with the framework of our rule of law and decided by vote. We cannot accept the wave of hatred and violence that is pouring out today against elected officials, but also against caregivers and, in a way, those who serve the general interest. We will therefore continue to fight politically those who, through fear and violence, want to destroy our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, this crisis requires a sense of responsibility from us. Madam Deputy Minister, you reminded us of that earlier. It requires us to make often difficult decisions. Yet we must do so to protect the French, to allow life to continue, to allow our caregivers to do their work in this period. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Also, the united, united and responsible La République group, as it has been since the beginning of this event, will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u90	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u91	This afternoon, Sunday, 16 January, on behalf of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party, to the National Assembly's rostrum. The Republicans, first of all, I want to express our thoughts about our compatriots so hard tried, for almost two years, by this epidemic. It is a deadly disease that we must fight, and we keep in mind the tens of thousands of deaths that we must deplore. I also have a duty to express our gratitude to the staff of hospitals, health care teams, outpatient medicine, hospital medicine, firefighters, local government agents, these tens and tens of thousands of French people who, every day, fight this disease on the ground. In essence, since 27 December, and in support of this parliamentary work, both in committee and in session, in the National Assembly and in the Senate, we must answer only one question: is the text submitted to us by the Government useful?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u93	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] To this question, we, the Republicans, answer that this text is generally useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u95	[[Same movements]] [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] Of course, we agree with the national vaccination effort. Of course. We are not among those who, like on the benches of Mr Mélenchon or Mrs Le Pen, flatter the sad passions and, in essence, renounce what France's aspiration for science and progress is. We believe in vaccination and look forward to the practical implementation of this vaccination effort on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u96	Bravo! Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u97	Then we understand the logic of the vaccination pass. That is why yesterday, the Senate, where the Republicans and their centre-right allies have the majority, approved the vaccination pass. Overall, we approved it here. We understand the logic. Of course, we want to get rid of it as soon as possible – and in fact, we give the Government the option of giving it up by decree, I would like to remind you. We have taken care to extract minors under the age of 16 since, between the ages of 12 and 16, it is not the vaccination pass but the sanitary pass that will be applied. In short, we are not very enthusiastic about the vaccination pass but, like a very large majority of our fellow citizens, we understand that it is rather useful, and we therefore voted on it at first reading and then at second reading; Overall, we will also vote on this final reading. So, what are our differences? As you have understood, they relate to two of the modalities for applying the vaccination pass, and I regret that the majority of the National Assembly and the Government did not follow what we said here and what our honourable senators said yesterday on these two subjects. I deeply believe, Madam Minister, that your system of quasi-identification in bistros, restaurants and cafes is both legally very uncertain and in practice perfectly inoperative.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u98	Gas plant!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u99	Inapplicable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u100	You're wrong to be stubborn. It's not a big deal, however; I am prepared to take the bet that this provision, which will probably be voted on by the House in a few minutes, will not be applied. I do not want to fall into the anecdote, but this morning again, in Charny, in the heart of Puisaye, in my constituency, I discussed this with a restaurant manager who, however, is not systematically politically hostile to you: he told me that this device had no chance of being applied in real life. One wonders why you insist on asking the leaders of bistros, restaurants and cafés to almost replace police and gendarmerie forces. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u101	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u102	The second point that makes no sense is that of labour inspection in small businesses. We must trust the entrepreneurs of our country; There is no need to send the labour inspectorate to carry out checks, nor is it very reasonable to entrust it with the power to impose administrative fines on contractors who do their best to protect their employees. Apart from these two reservations, which fall under the terms of the vaccination pass, I repeat, with clarity, on behalf of the Republicans of the National Assembly, on behalf of this first opposition force and of the proposal that we are, we generally approve this bill. I have only one wish to make, that we will emerge from this crisis as soon as possible and that we can finally talk about something else to the millions of French, who are waiting in spring for a great democratic rendezvous of the nation with itself. The main subject of the April presidential election and the June general elections will not be the management of the health crisis – a subject that is neither left, right, nor center.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u103	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u104	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The major national subjects are quite different and I hope that we will know together, in the interest of democracy, also talk about the future of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u105	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u106	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u107	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u108	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u109	It is based on the third paragraph of Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure, which concerns personal challenges. I am pleased to see you restored, Mr. Chairman, but let me go back to what you said a few weeks ago – you said that the contaminated people were responsible for their own contamination – and that I recalled earlier. After my intervention, you thought it was a good duty to challenge them. To put it another way, you said I was lying. For the good quality of our debates, here is the exact transcript of the comments you made while you were the guest of the morning of France Inter, on October 29, 2020. "If we're sick tomorrow, it's because at some point, we won't have paid as much attention as we need. The journalist then interrupted you: "When you get sick, it's necessarily our fault? There's plenty of coffee, Richard Ferrand! " What you answered: "It's not strong coffee, it's the exact truth. [...] It is when we release ourselves that we let this virus attack us. ... It is not a matter of fault, it is a matter of responsibility. » [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] These are precisely the words I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u110	Very interesting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u111	It pushes the debate forward!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u112	You persist, Mr. Coquerel.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u113	You're the one who persists!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u114	If I answered you, it was because you personally questioned me during the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u115	I've quoted you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u116	On the other hand, as you have just said, the words I said in this morning were "it is not a matter of fault, it is a matter of responsibility" and not, as you said earlier, "the Speaker of our House said that the contaminated were responsible for their own contamination," which I never said. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Even when you quote, you truncate!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u117	I now call, in accordance with the third paragraph of Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure, the bill in the text adopted by the National Assembly for further reading. I call on the House to take a decision first on the amendments before me. I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 1, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 31. On these amendments, I have a request from the Republicans and Liberties and Territories groups for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u118	With this amendment, the Republican Group wishes to return to the very important subject – in our view as well as in the eyes of senators and many of our compatriots – of identity checks and other documentary concordance checks. We call for the removal of the possibility for private persons and authorized services to control the possession of the vaccine pass or the health pass to carry out a verification of the identity of its bearer. As our colleague Guillaume Larrivé said in his opening speech, despite the laborious rewrites of this provision – presented from the initial version of the bill – during readings of the text, it remains legally unstable and practically inoperative. This is, in any case, our position and we have affirmed it from the first reading. In our view, it is not up to private individuals – restaurant owners, coffee makers, security guards, establishment managers – to exercise identity checks, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u119	That's right! It's not their job!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u120	... this option is reserved for law enforcement officers. The Government has explained to us that there are already exemptions for cashiers and supermarket cashiers and casino guards, but the controls they carry out have absolutely nothing to do with those provided for in Article 1. Finally, this provision constitutes a genuine gas plant and will not be applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u122	Obviously, the main objective of the project is to enquire about certain professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u123	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u124	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] It would therefore be wise to abandon it altogether.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u125	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u126	I recall that the Senate voted massively against this provision – all the opposition and senatorial majority groups voted against it – and that here in the National Assembly, we tabled at first reading an amendment to delete it, which all the oppositions approved. This means that Parliament as a whole, if a CMP allowed it to express itself in this way, would clearly have concluded that such a measure should be reconsidered. To put things in context, I would add that the health pass worked very well without this identity check: the objective that you are pursuing and that we are pursuing, namely the widespread vaccination of adults, has been fulfilled. Such an addition, which seems to exist only to protect you by avoiding your liability, unnecessarily adds to the task of restorers or coffee makers who have done their job very well – with great delicacy – so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u128	They are there to welcome their clients: they do not want to be forced to appreciate whether or not to verify the identity of a person in addition to his or her sanitary pass. In practical terms, first of all, the measure is inoperative: no one will want to apply it and for having discussed it with the restaurateurs, I can tell you that they do not see themselves at all holding that role that you ask them to play. On the constitutional front, then, it seems to me to be a problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u129	I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u130	It is intended to eliminate the possibility for persons controlling the health pass to carry out the verification of an identity document, because we believe that this competence should be reserved exclusively for judicial police officers and authorized agents under their responsibility. The control of the sanitary pass places heavy responsibilities and constraints on the managers of the bars, restaurants and other establishments concerned. An additional burden should not be added and there should be no further increase in the control of one part of the population by another. We oppose it all the more since the manner in which the provision is drafted makes its application difficult, since it involves an interpretation on the part of the restorer, which would have to be based on his suspicions of a particular client. It's not very clear! In its opinion, the Council of State considers that there is no constitutional or treaty principle preventing persons from entering a transport establishment, place or service subject to the justification of their identity. Yet such an interpretation is highly questionable. Indeed, there are very few laws and regulations that already provide for professional verification of the identity of their clients, and none concerns a daily tool such as the vaccination pass. The measure could therefore give rise to recourse to the Constitutional Council. Finally, the new wording proposed by the rapporteur in committee does not bring any improvement, as it maintains the principle of identity checks carried out by persons who are not entitled to do so and who do not wish to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u132	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u133	I'm not going to repeat what was said. I will merely note how much you care about this measure, without which your general arrangement obviously cannot work; Therefore, you are engaged in a completely irresponsible, unconstitutional and inapplicable forward flight. It is strange, however, that in the light of the work of the Senate, of all the oppositions and of all the common-sense remarks that have been addressed to you, you did not agree to revert to such a staggering provision. Your attitude also shows how much this bill plays for you as a totem, which allows you to turn unvaccinated people into scapegoats. But in truth, all these identity checks will not only concern the unvaccinated! Vaccines will also undergo them, since the duration of effectiveness of each dose is limited – after seven months, it takes another one. This is why many French people who have been vaccinated do not support the idea of being controlled at every corner of the street, as part of all the activities they want to carry out. You put your finger in a gear, while other European countries, including Spain, are doing the opposite – the Spanish Minister of Health has just declared that the omicron wave should now be classified as influenza. This means that France will sink into bureaucratic controls which are absolutely unbearable at the very moment when other European countries have understood what is happening.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u134	Stand up Switzerland, stand up Spain!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u135	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u136	I believe that senators, by voting on this amendment – we can only repeat here the amendments tabled in the Senate – wanted to reaffirm a principle that is fundamental to them when it comes to identity checks; In fact, they have approved it in a proportion that exceeds the ranks of their majority group. Several colleagues have said that such a measure will be at best inoperative, because it is inapplicable or inapplicable, and at the worst source of tension. It will give rise to situations in which untrained and unauthorised persons can check and verify the identity of each other. This will allow them to have the name, first name, photo and date of birth of their clients, since it is the information that is on the current health pass and will be on the vaccination pass tomorrow. We had pointed out the concrete problems that such a device could create: for example, if I go to a restaurant – or even simply drink a coffee – I don't necessarily want anyone to know who I am, what my surname and first name are, or with whom I ate that day.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u137	It could be someone on the right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u138	Such information must remain in the domain of privacy, to which it belongs, unless you find normal, logical and legitimate that everyone can control each. This is a society in which we do not want to live! And you, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, are aware of this, since it was you who had withdrawn from the text on the health pass the possibility of a check by someone other than a police officer or a gendarmerie, the only ones authorized to verify the identity! I remember: it was in committee and it was the Secretary of State Cédric O who announced it. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] I would add an additional argument: when we had brought the matter before the Constitutional Council on the comprehensive security law, it had censored the provisions giving municipal police officers prerogatives reserved for judicial police officers under the national police. Similarly, this unnecessary and disproportionate power should not be given to the persons concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u139	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u140	This mechanism, which is in addition to your text, is perhaps the most obvious proof of a problem of proportionality between what you are introducing and the expected results. As my colleagues have said, you are setting up a system in which people who have absolutely not asked for it will end up controlling others while it is not their role and they do not have the will to do so. And in doing so, you train people to investigate their own fellow citizens. They will have to do what is most difficult: to estimate, on the basis of subjective suspicions, that the paper presented by someone is not valid. This obviously looks like the beginning of an investigation, and we can't turn everyone into an investigator! This role that you assign to them seems to me all the more dangerous as you have often compared it to that of an air hostess or a member of the aircrew checking the identity of passengers at the entrance of an aircraft – one might also wonder about the merits of such a check. In that case, everyone has to present their papers. But what do you think will happen when a restaurant owner, for example, asks some people for their papers, but not others? What tensions is this measure likely to create in restaurants, when it is – again – absolutely useless and will not have any effect? Again, you act as sorcerer apprentices. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to add that your answer, earlier, was the peak of bad faith: when I quoted your remarks regarding the responsibility of the contaminated persons, you replied that you had referred to "a question of responsibility." Look for the difference: personally, I don't see it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u141	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u142	Thank you, Mr. President; I'm also happy to see you in good health. It is a question of principle on a fundamental problem: we do not want the possibility, for people whose mission is not and who have never had the responsibility, of manipulating someone else's identity document to be trivialized. When we discussed it, the rapporteur told us that it would not be a matter of "control" but simply of "checking". Admit it's playing on words! They may require the identification of their clients, and they may be required to make questionable use of them. Then, according to the figures from the Ministry of the Interior, it is estimated that there are about 190,000 fake passes in circulation, out of more than 40 million people vaccinated: it is epsilon! To deal with a problem that is not significant, we question fundamental principles. Therefore, colleagues, regardless of our disagreements about your fully vaccine-focused strategy, let us at least agree on this point: let us not take this new step which may lead other governments, in the future, to go even further. You, in essence, agree with this principle: it is to a sworn police officer, and to him alone, that the power to verify someone's identity must be reserved. It can't be a private activity! This is once again a fundamental principle of our public freedoms. That is why we are defending this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u143	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u144	We oppose your control company. The Republic has delegated its police powers to police officers and to no one else, simply! In addition, beyond the amendment itself, you commit France and the French to this text for six months – well beyond your mandate. I wonder why: remember that in April, elections will take place. The vaccine protects against serious forms, but does not prevent the circulation or transmission of the virus. The health pass was already inconsistent; The vaccine pass, on the other hand, is aberrant. You are lost and you are acting by impulse, improvising, but this will have dramatic consequences for our society, especially for the school, for the hospital and for the culture, which is absolutely sacrificed. Your solution is only authoritarian, because you have not planned anything: you play on the fear of people, you speak to their emotion instead of speaking to their intelligence. It's dramatic! We therefore ask you to stop panicking, withdraw your bill and listen to the entire national representation. If you use this text to reassure the French, it is missed! And if it's for you to do a political blow, it's irresponsible!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u145	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u146	If we love our Republic and its motto – Freedom, equality, fraternity – then we don't propose such a text. If we love the people of France in all its components, then we vote this amendment and we vote against your liberticide bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u147	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor in support of Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u148	We oppose this provision as we oppose the whole text, which is taking a new step towards the generalised surveillance and control society. Colleagues, such a measure is both contrary to our principles, our freedoms and our fundamental rights, but also impractically inapplicable. We have entered the era of permanent pandemics, and the one we are currently living has its origin in the productive economic choices that have created the conditions for its emergence and spread. We will have to implement enormous means if we are to bifurcate our society in order to cope with the acceleration of climate change, whose pandemics are one of the expressions. This requires more solidarity, we need to reduce inequalities; It is necessary to do the opposite of what you introduce into this text, and more particularly in this provision, by which you designate to the general vindiction a part of the population. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] If this part of the population is not vaccinated, it is because of the denial of access to rights. I repeat: 40% of unvaccinated people are not by choice, but because your policies have broken public hospital and community care, because they live in medical deserts and do not have access to the vaccine. The vaccine is a means, but it is not an end in itself: it will not be enough to put down this pandemic, nor will it be the next. Vaccination campaigns must be carried out with the help of community-based health tools – we have the means and you should have listened to us from the beginning, when we proposed it – by developing the "go towards" which you have failed to do, as well as all the complementary tools to support this approach. In conclusion, I would add that this vote does not conclude the battle that we are waging, which is indispensable and concrete. It will continue on the street, following the forthcoming mobilizations in the coming days, and it will have to continue in the ballot box, in order to put an end to your policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u149	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u150	How far are you going to go? That's everyone's question, minister. How far are you going to go, when we remember that you told the French that the health pass would never, in the long run, be a right of access differentiating them? How far are you going to go, when we remember, Madam Chair of the Committee on Laws, that you had this House pass an amendment to the effect that the sanitary pass would never be used in the places of everyday life – cinemas, theatres, cafes, or even the homes of friends? What are you doing, colleagues, when we are trampling on health democracy by introducing exceptional regimes that have lasted for months, which you never take stock of and which give the executive a completely disproportionate power? [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] What are you doing, when you establish two categories of French by individualizing the problem, doing a sort of hunt for the non-vaccinated, accusing the sick of being guilty of being, in order to better hide all your lies and fiascos in the management of the health crisis? What are you doing, when you ask the coffee makers, restaurant owners and security officers to check, against their will, the identity of a whole part of the population?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u151	Charabia!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u152	What are you doing, when the debates become nauseous to the point that some wonder whether the unvaccinated have the right to be treated or to continue to receive unemployment benefit? What are you doing, when you attack the political rights of the French by allowing to ask for the pass at the door of political meetings? [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Colleagues, we are voting for a serious text, getting used to the worst. You could have done anything other than establish a Republic of QR code and arbitrariness everywhere. Your text has nothing to do with health. You're letting democracy slip between your fingers. We won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u153	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u154	It is a question of rejecting the controls you want to put in place, and more generally the whole strategy in which they participate: vaccination pass, widespread vaccination and incessant reminders – third, fourth, fifth or sixth dose, we no longer know where this will stop. This is a strategy without any discernment, as the World Health Organization (WHO) and many scientists, including some members of the High Health Authority, report. Instead of multiplying unnecessary reminders, they all say, it is better to target vulnerable people, in order to preserve the health of our fellow citizens and the health of the country as a whole. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] What does WHO say about health? It is "a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being, [which] not only consists of an absence of illness or infirmity. With this vaccination pass, you not only fail to preserve the health of the French, but you attack their mental state and their social ties, thereby altering their health in the sense given by the WHO.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u155	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u156	In the beginning, Macron said there would never be a vaccination pass. Today, in addition to the vaccination pass, we have an amplification of society from permanent control to sanctions. For Macron, covid-19 is a political weapon: the instrumentalisation of the health crisis on the back of the suffering of people, health workers, families, children, those who lose their activities and work, people living in the overseas regions, where the crisis is tinged with ill-health. [[Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM Group]] In the beginning, the vaccine protected everything, to the point that health pass holders could remove the mask in the rooms. In fact, we quickly realized that this was the health impasse, proof that the Minister of Solidarity and Health had disappeared from radars, claiming that the virus would almost disappear when we reached the 80% vaccine threshold. As a result, contamination is five times higher and has never been so strong. Where's Olivier Véran with his three doses? Covid, isolated, lying in front of his TV! [[Same movements]] In the beginning, there was no need for a mask. Then the mask became mandatory. [[Same movements]] In the beginning, children were more resistant to covid-19. Very quickly, they became superpropagators. [[Same movements]] In the beginning, there would be no sanitary pass. Then it was introduced. In the beginning, there would be no vaccination pass. And not only do you impose it, but you also ask us, this Sunday afternoon, to validate the check. You want a dehumanized society, without fraternity. Through these paragraphs, you want to turn waiters and restaurateurs into gendarmes. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Philippe Nilor also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Group on the move, Madam Minister, Macron wants to piss off the non-vaccinated and you really want to piss the whole society off. Vote this amendment and return to being responsible and worthy elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u157	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u158	To be healthy is not just not to be ill, as my colleague Prud'homme reminded us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u159	Already said, to the next one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u160	We are meant to have social ties, not to live by constantly distrusting each other, as if we were harmful to each other. The control society that you insist on imposing will be ineffective on a public health plan. It will even be harmful, and will not prevent the circulation of the virus. It's an absolute nonsense.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u161	Your holograms are funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u162	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Oh, you can scream, that's all you can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u163	Keep talking. No questioning: here we speak to the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u164	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Your personal attacks on some of our colleagues do not hide the poverty of your arguments, nor the disaster of your public health policy. The Coué method, of which you are followers, does not hide them either. Stop doing all three monkeys and come back to reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u165	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u166	Ladies and gentlemen responsible, you take no responsibility for anything: to strengthen hospitals; to raise the famous patents on the vaccine, which must be global in order to be effective;...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u167	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u168	... to explain to us the choices that underpin your policy when an epidemiologist has still doubted the effectiveness of such a device. Now you don't want to apply your own policy of control, supervision, QR code. You take responsibility, leaving it to the citizens to carry out these checks. And to tell us that checking identity matches is not an identity check! These nuances may reveal a complex thought. For my part, I would say that they bear witness to a sick, enkysted thought: at best, these controls do not serve anything; at worst, you encourage delation. In any case, they represent a breach of privacy that takes us far from the need to think together of a serious health policy. [[Ms. Danièle Obono and Mr. Jean-Philippe Nilor applaud]] [[Exclaims on several benches of the LaREM Group. – Applause on several benches of the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Philippe Nilor also applauds]] What are your only arguments? You're laughing at one of us, insulting us or typing on your tablets. These are arguments from kindergarten students, or contradictors who don't have one! Representative democracy is in crisis, but with you, it is under artificial respirator! It would be good time to find a vaccine against godillot disease!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u169	Mr François Ruffin has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u170	[["Ah! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] It must be recognized: Emmanuel Macron succeeds in a stroke of genius. A genius of cynicism! What was going on in the fall? Hospitals were already crumbling: in Saint-Calais, Laval, Bailleul, La Flèche, Mamers, Moissac, all over France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u171	You're the one who's cracking!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u172	At that time, the observation was clear: it was the fault of the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the President of the Republic who, in the middle of the year of the epidemic of covid -19, had decided to remove 5700 beds,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u173	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u174	... to reduce the funding for hospitals in the social security budget by EUR 1 billion, and not to create a resuscitator post after promising a major investment plan in hospitals. In the end, it was zero, zero, zero!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u175	Let's be serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u176	Desperation was political. This is when the omicron variant arrives and Macron's genius intervenes. The President of the Republic naturalizes the social: the virus is responsible for everything, which relieves politics. But if the hospital goes wrong, it is because of your political choices, it is the fruit of your decisions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u177	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u178	The President of the Republic succeeds in a second blow: pointing the finger at the non-vaccinated, saying that everything is their fault, and ensuring that the French from below tear themselves apart. As in Calais, people look at the vaccination status of their neighbours, control each other, accuse each other. When you look at the society from below, you don't take care of the society from above.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u179	That doesn't mean anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u180	[[Protests on several benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] We are here to say that if the public hospital is going wrong, it is your fault, the fault of France from above, it is the result of the decisions you have made, the promises you have continually betrayed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u181	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u182	We have spoken widely, and we do not believe that this text and the vaccination pass are effective in curbing the epidemic. We think it's all the less so since you're opting for coerced vaccination. This is not a solution, nor is it the guilt of non-vaccinated people. Your approach and the way you do not listen to the opposition, whether on the right or on the left, will prevent you from convincing the public that vaccination is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u183	Four-ten percent of French people are vaccinated!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u184	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] Besides, if you are convinced that the vaccine can stem the pandemic, why don't you ask for the lifting of patents, so that all the world's population can be vaccinated? Finally, Mr Castaner, I do not think that this text accompanies the French, as you claim. In my opinion, it is rather intended to "wrong the unvaccinated", as the President of the Republic has said.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u185	You lack originality!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u186	[[Applause on several benches in the FI group. – Mr. Jean-Philippe Nilor also applauds]] More broadly, it attacks the freedom of the entire population. We do not accept it, hence these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u187	Mr Eric Diard has the floor to support Amendment No. 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u188	I re-tabled this amendment, which I had already introduced at first reading, although I must admit that the device has been reduced from what it was in the original version of the bill. As it stands, however, it remains critical: it is not possible to empower employees under private law – traders, coffee makers – to carry out an identity check. [[Mrs. Agnes Thill applauds]] Recall that during the debates on the law for a comprehensive security that preserves freedoms, you did not want the municipal police officers to control the identity. For my part, I had tabled an amendment so that the municipal police officers, who are local police officers, could check the squatters. You turned it down. As far as vaccination passes are concerned, you persist in defending this device, even if you have reduced it. However, as our colleague Guillaume Larrivé explained very well, it is not legally conceivable: the notion of "serious reason" is not defined; It will give rise to interpretations and challenges. As many colleagues have pointed out, coffee makers and restaurants do not want to carry out these checks: this is not their job; They don't want to argue, or even worse, with recalcitrant customers. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] So, be brave and go to the end of the process: delete paragraphs 24 and 25 of Article 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u189	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u190	I have already said this in my opening remarks, and I repeat: this is the mechanism that was adopted by the Senate's Law Committee, on the proposal of rapporteur Philippe Bas, as our colleagues in this chamber have found this verification to be useful and necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u191	It's a check!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u192	This verification, carried out after checking the pass, does not constitute an identity check within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u193	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u194	By the way, I would point out that the control of the pass itself had been very defied at the time of its adoption – by those very people who refuse the new device – on the grounds that the professionals could not and could not do so and that it would have a cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u195	That's right, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u196	In reality, this control is done through a free app that everyone has on their phone. The professional takes less time to check the QR code than the consumer looking for it in their phone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u197	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u198	The audit we are talking about cannot result in fines or denunciations, as the professional simply refuses access to his establishment. It is not systematic, as it must be recognized that professionals are familiar with a part of their clientele.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u199	It's going to give rise to a lot of protests!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u200	I will not insult you to recall all the forms in which this verification is carried out for other purposes. You submit to such checks on a daily basis without recrimination as you do now.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u201	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u202	Yes, it has to be seen. It's exactly the same thing! Everyone has already cited these verification procedures to which you regularly submit. Finally, it aims to combat fraud. And to fight fraud is to fight for the health of the French!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u203	It is not the responsibility of the restaurateurs to fight fraud!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u204	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups]] The committee therefore gives an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u205	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u206	The Government's opinion is, of course, unfavorable. The aim of this provision is, of course, to combat fraud, but even more so to discourage individuals from trying to fraud. We had already been promised enormous difficulties in presenting the health pass, which, I would remind you, Mr Bernalicis, already includes the name and date of birth.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u207	That's what we're worried about, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u208	This mechanism is consistent with our objective: we want above all to protect the French, to guarantee individual freedoms and to respect their rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u209	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u210	First of all, we want to fight the disease, which involves vaccination, and against the circulation of the virus, through isolation and testing. The sanitary pass combines all this. This pass prompted the French to proceed with the first vaccination. However, still too many people miss vaccination trying to use the test, out of complacency at first, now out of comfort. As the tests are no longer free, they are encouraged to turn to the vaccination pass, which we want to put in place as quickly as possible to stem the omicron variant. We will continue to protect the French against winds and tides. I know now that we cannot count on your help to achieve this! We simply wish to reaffirm the rights of individuals. You know very well that this is not unconstitutional, since this has been reaffirmed by the Constitutional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u211	We're turning the restaurateurs into controllers!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u212	Wait for censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u213	You also know that this is not an exorbitant right, since traders, such as tobacco outlets, are already checking the identity of people when they have to sell tobacco or alcohol. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group, as well as on some benches of the Dem and Agir ens groups]] We simply reaffirm certain obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u214	These twenty-two identical amendments, which have been put forward seventeen times, have enabled our House to take a good look at the issue at hand. In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I shall allow one speaker to speak against the adoption of these amendments and one speaker to speak in favour; We shall then proceed to the vote. Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u215	I solemnly appeal to the Government and the majority to withdraw this provision. Madam Minister, you speak of consistency, but we must hear the concern of our compatriots: even those who are in favour of the vaccination pass question this device because of this identity check. You are introducing a provision that is legally banal and that requires restorers as well as other private agents to exercise control that is the responsibility of the public authorities, the police. You know very well that the majority of Members of the Republican Group will vote for the vaccination pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u216	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u217	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, absolutely! All you have to do is look at the results of the public elections!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u218	Only Mr Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u219	Madam Minister-in-Office, in the name of the coherence that you are talking about, delete this mechanism. This will allow us to gather around this vaccination pass without imposing on people who are not responsible for carrying out identity checks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u220	It's not a check!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u221	That's it! It's a check!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u222	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u223	As you know, it is estimated that nearly 200,000 fake passes are in circulation. We can move and do nothing, or we can try to act. As the rapporteur pointed out, this is not at all an identity check within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but simply a check on the concordance of the pass with an identity document. The hoteliers, the restaurateurs, the coffee makers are already carrying out these checks. They have a license IV and are trained to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u224	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u225	The Union des métiers et des industries de l'hôtel (UMIH) is also asking for this. If they don't want to do so, they don't: we're just giving them the opportunity to do that. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group and on some benches of the FI group]] In April and June, 700,000 polling stations will be opened. Citizens will be summoned to check the match between the electoral card and the ID. It's not a problem for anyone! (Mr. David Corceiro applauds.) A simple elector who comes to the polling station can be requisitioned to do this check.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u226	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u227	Let Mrs. Abadie speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u228	You're saying this check will be random. In municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, voters are not obliged to present identification documents to vote, but verification can be carried out. It is a simple possibility if there is a doubt about identity: it is exactly the same case. [[Claims on several benches of the LR and FI groups]] You told us the sanitary pass wouldn't work, it worked.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u229	No, it didn't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u230	[[Same movements]] You're telling us the vaccine pass won't work, it's gonna work. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group. – Exclaims on a few benches of the LR group]] You tell us that the identity check that we include in this text will not work, it will work! Let's stop yelling at the wolf for nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u231	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u232	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 279 Number of votes cast 274 Absolute majority 138 For adoption 91 Against 183
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u233	On identical amendments Nos 2, 4, 7, 8 and 27, the Republicans Group and the Libertés et Territoires Group have asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I have before me five identical amendments, Nos 2, 4, 7, 8 and 27, to delete Article 1a A. Mr Charles de la Verpillière has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u234	Madam Deputy Minister, stop bothering companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u235	To support them, you mean!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u236	All the studies show that it is not in companies that the French have become infected, and you know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u237	What studies?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u238	This is for two reasons. First, wherever possible, for all the suitable workstations, business leaders played the game of telework. In my constituency, I was able to see that companies that did less telework sometimes did so because the employees themselves preferred to come to the company to do collective work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u239	This is not often the case.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u240	[[Guillaume Larrivée applauds]] Secondly, in companies and for positions for which teleworking was not possible, for example for production stations, all the recommendations and government health standards were scrupulously respected by the entrepreneurs, who even went beyond them. I was also able to check it in my constituency. That is why the Republican Group proposes to delete Article 1 bis A of the draft law, which adds to the existing criminal sanctions and which will remain unnecessary and even counterproductive administrative sanctions. Indeed, this scheme would concern only a very limited number of companies, for the reasons I have indicated. In addition, it would give a broad discretion to the labour inspectorate on the organisation of the enterprise, which is not desirable in the period we are going through. Entrepreneurs must remain responsible for risk assessment and prevention measures, in consultation with employees in the context of social dialogue. That is why we are presenting this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u241	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u242	It also seeks to delete this Article 1e r bis A introduced by amendment of the Government – therefore without impact assessment or opinion of the Council of State – and aimed at creating an administrative fine for non-compliance by the employer with the rules on telework, in addition to the existing judicial fine. This amendment seems to be consistent with the wisdom of the Senate, which yesterday deleted this article. There is no justification for the creation of a new emergency mechanism, in addition to all those that have been in place for almost two years. In fact, the current law already provides for a comprehensive system of sanctions against the employer which would breach its obligations concerning the safety of employees. He may therefore be subject to a fine of EUR 3750 under the Labour Code or even to a prison sentence under the Criminal Code. This new administrative fine would thus undermine the existing judicial sanctions and, at the same time, the role of the judge in these disputes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u243	On the bill as a whole, I am seized by the groups La République en marche, Les Républicains, Libertés et territoires and La France insubmission of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Molac to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u244	It is intended to delete Article 1aA, which creates an administrative fine for undertakings which do not comply with the telework obligation. The telework obligation has been incorporated into the latest version of the company health protocol, but it is only a set of recommendations with no legislative value, as the Council of State stated in two interim orders of 19 October and 17 December 2020. Therefore, on what legal basis can an administrative fine be imposed for non-compliance with a simple recommendation? In addition, questions arise as to how implementation is to be implemented. The article provides that the sanctions will be imposed by the labour inspectorate. How will she carry out the checks? It does not have the capacity to control all companies in the country for such a limited period of time. Above all, how will she determine whether or not a position can be teleworked? The answer is subject to different interpretations. Ultimately, this article will place constraints and suspicion on businesses, whereas it would be preferable to maintain a relationship of trust. The social partners should have been brought together well in advance to define the conditions for teleworking within the framework of collective agreements. It is in this way that we usually proceed when we amend the labour code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u245	I call Mr Dupont-Aignan to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u246	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your logic is bureaucratic, you multiply inapplicable controls and fines and you maintain an atmosphere of suspicion. You live only by that, only for that. This quinquennium is that of the permanent national division: you put the French against each other. At the end of this debate, I have been seized by electronic means of numerous requests from citizens who are watching us – you have probably been questioned yourself in your constituencies, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to address the President of our Assembly: these citizens have been very surprised to see that the Ministers of the Republic never answer certain specific questions from the honourable Members. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Our colleagues in La France have never had an answer to CNIL's questions about the sanitary pass. I, for my part, have never had a reply on the recovery certificate, which is valid for a year in Switzerland. All medical specialists agree on one point: when you have been ill, you produce antibodies and then it is not desirable to get vaccinated. No answer! Mr President of the National Assembly, are we in a real democracy when the ministers of the Republic are sitting in Parliament and are not answering questions from parliamentarians? What does that mean for our fellow citizens? Are we a shadow theatre? What are we serving? These are the real questions that the French are asking themselves!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u247	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u248	Our opposition to sanctions against companies that do not comply with such or such telework guidelines may seem a little strange to you. I want to explain why we share the opinion of the Senate, as well as the Republicans, Socialists and Related Groups and Liberties and Territories. In the present state of the law, can the administration fine a company that does not comply with the rules defined in the legal framework? Yes. The labour inspectorate passes through, observes the problem and transmits it to justice – yes, to justice. But we heard in committee our colleagues in the majority say that if this new system were put in place, it was because justice was too slow, too complicated, and an administrative fine was much better. This is a somewhat strange view of the procedures of the rule of law, and therefore of the Republic and democracy. I prefer the legal procedure in force. We said: Trust the judges, trust the justice! That's what you're telling us morning, noon and evening from text to text. You have heard the guard of the seals, on many occasions, invective us and indignant ourselves of our criticism of the state of our justice, despite an 8% increase in its budget. He told us that justice was being repaired, that the proceedings were proceeding at a good pace, that everything was fine. Then I don't understand: why are you making this proposal? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It would have been much better to give power to the CHCST – health, safety and working conditions committees – which you have removed, and to the employees in the company, to let them collectively define the terms of telework, so that they are legitimate and apply well.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u249	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u250	This article only modifies the end of the procedure in force: after a finding of non-compliance, after a notice remains unsuccessful, an administrative fine may be imposed, replacing criminal proceedings. This procedure will be faster and much less traumatic. All guarantees are provided: adversarial, possibility of regularization, suspensive remedies... I would add that these fines will be adapted to each company and that we have reduced their amount by half. This article does not stigmatize companies, which have been fully supported by the Government since the beginning of the crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u251	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u252	It simply provides us with an effective, balanced, temporary and necessary tool to protect workers' health. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u254	Unfavorable opinion, too. These administrative sanctions are aimed at ensuring fairness between companies that do not play the game and those that play it, that is, the vast majority of them, to whom we trust and which we have accompanied – I recall here the EUR 100 billion of the France Recovery Plan. We cannot be told that we are against companies or that we want to annoy them! But some companies do not play the game, there have been controls, and this obliges us to strengthen administrative sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u255	This is a socialist vision!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u256	What we want is only to ensure the effectiveness of the past and the protection of employees. It's still normal, and you should follow us on this. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat that the Law Committee reduced the amount of the fine from EUR 1000 to EUR 500. Our position is consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u257	By virtue of our Rules of Procedure, and in view of the fact that this amendment has been brilliantly supported five times and that everyone will have understood the content of it, I will give the floor to one speaker in favour of the amendment and one speaker against the amendment. We shall then proceed to the vote. Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u258	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on a few benches of the Dem group]] Above all, I want to respond to our colleagues in the Republican Group. In terms of crisis management and corporate protection policy and preparation for the future, we really have no lessons to learn from your political family! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] You managed a financial and economic crisis 13 years ago, and everyone remembers how: your policy resulted in massive corporate destruction, mass unemployment, debt creation, a massacre of our public services. That is the record of the policies that you once carried out! We acted in a completely different way. We have protected our companies, with the loans guaranteed by the State (PGE), with the solidarity fund, with partial unemployment, with the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u259	And who's gonna pay?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u260	Our policy has protected employment, allowed business and wealth creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u261	They're self-entrepreneurs, your business start-ups! Stop lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u262	And unemployment has been at its lowest level in more than 30 years! So no, no lessons! In essence, the virus does not stop at the door of companies, and in terms of health, we do not compromise. We did not set up the vaccination pass for companies, but telework. For companies that do not play the game – they are rare – a sanctions mechanism is provided. We support him. And after hearing our TPEs – very small businesses – and our SMEs – small and medium-sized businesses – we have cut the amount of the administrative fine by half, from EUR 1000 to EUR 500. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on a few benches of the Dem group]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u263	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u264	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I understand the unease of the majority, as our colleague has just said; It is so embarrassed by the present situation, and the majority is so uncomfortable with this control system of companies and this society of suspicion, that it was necessary to open the archives of ten years ago and give from the financial crisis of the time a reading as partial as it is partial! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] You promote the checkbook, now open to all-va, whose unit of account is the billion, and the "whatever it costs" that leads to a considerable level of debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u265	You would have preferred the fall of companies!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u266	Madam Minister, of course we are in favour of business support during the crisis, but it is not that we must send a message of doubt and distrust to businesses by setting up a control system that you know is completely inapplicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u267	It's the socialists on the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u268	You would have preferred the collapse of the economy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u269	[[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] You entrust the labour inspectorate with a role that is not his, and there will be a lot of litigation. That's a bad signal. That is why we will vote for these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u270	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2, 4, 7, 8 and 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u271	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 277 Number of votes cast 273 Absolute majority 137 For adoption 88 Against 185
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u272	We have concluded our consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u273	I put the bill as a whole to the vote as a result of the National Assembly's re-reading.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u274	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 280 Number of votes cast 273 Absolute majority 137 For adoption 215 Against 58
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-16-O1126.u275	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the bill, adopted by the Senate, on the combatant world; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the National Assembly to condemn Alexander Lukashenko's illegitimate regime; Discussion, in further reading, of the proposal for a law on adoption. The meeting is adjourned.
