ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate on the combatant world (No. 3954, 4870), on which I am seized by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Since the text has not been amended, I shall put it to the vote, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u2	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u3	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 32 Number of votes cast 32 Absolute majority 17 For adoption 32 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u4	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution inviting the National Assembly to solemnly condemn Alexander Lukashenko's illegitimate regime (No. 4800).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u5	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u6	"My country, although not always clearly and formally drawn on the maps of Europe, extends from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. My country passes through Odessa, Lvov – or Lviv –, Krakow, Grodno, to its historic capital, Vilnius. Who speaks this way? Of course, he is a Pole, if you are in Poland, but also a Lithuanian, if you are in Lithuania; he is a Belarusian in Grodno or Brest; He is a Jew from Odessa or Minsk whose grandfather dreamed of going to the Gaon of Vilnius, capital of Yiddishland. Ukrainians or some Tatars were also able to express themselves in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot understand what is happening in Belarus today without understanding this region as a whole between the Baltic and the Black Seas; a region that has always been woven of opposite cultures, different languages, often cross-jurisdictions in the same territories – one does not address the same administration if one is in business with a Jew of the Shtetl or with the Polish landowner. These orthogonal weavings are for the best – the Republic of the Two Nations, which lasted two centuries; Milosz, Mickiewicz, the great Polish poets who never lived in today's Poland; the painters Soutine, Chagall; the project of the federation of the inter-seas of Marshal Pilsudski, in the 1920s – but also for the worst – the Polish-Lithuanian killings after the First World War, the Shoah by bullets, the pogroms, the horrors between Poles and Ukrainians in the Volyn region. When a country is destabilized in this region, it is the whole deep region, this weaving, this fabric of friendships and hatred, that is destabilized. So let us go back to this crisis and on a few points too often forgotten. First, it was a few weeks before the election that the magnificent foothills of three women surprised Lukashenko. He knows how to play the choreography of democracy; He did. Let Tsepkalo's wife introduce herself; let Babariko's campaign director introduce herself; let Tikhanovski's wife introduce herself. But these three women decided, a few weeks before the election, to regroup behind Tikhanovskaya. The population, from that moment on, understands that something is happening and goes out on the street, before the election, with a watchword: this time, do not steal our election. This revolution is above all a revolution of truth. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution recalls what we expect from the Government and the European community. First of all, as I have often said, the European Community's neighbourhood policy must not be a kind of pre-pre-accession policy; No, a neighbourhood policy is a policy that organizes relations with a neighbour that will remain a neighbour. Secondly, European sanctions work; the diplomacy that is sometimes called soft or influential – you know, Mr. Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, that I do not like those names that I prefer the action of France in the world, because that is what this is all about. To support and train Belarusian women in exile is the action of France; supporting the University of Belarus, which is on our soil in Vilnius, is the action of France; supporting independent journalists is France's action; appointing as special envoy for the affairs of Belarus, just after his expulsion from the country, our former ambassador, is the action of France. The motion for a resolution also calls for international non-governmental actions that recall what happened between France and Poland in the years Solidarnosc, in particular parliamentary and citizen cooperation with the representatives of democratic Belarus. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on many benches of the LaREM and Actir ens groups]] I quote this anecdote: during my mission to Vilnius, I met with my colleagues Sonia Krimi and Jean-Michel Clément about thirty Belarusian students with whom we discussed. A question was asked: "What is the proportion of French parliamentarians who believe Lukashenko's propaganda? 30%, 60%? Of course, we have misunderstood them, but it shows you the importance of non-government at the international level. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians to do this work as an ant, this long-term work, with a friendly people, a neighbouring people, who must remain neighbour and friend. De Gaulle said: "There is a 20-century pact between the greatness of France and the freedom of the world. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u7	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u8	We have had a number of occasions to discuss the situation in Belarus in the Committee on Foreign Affairs since the fraudulent elections of 2020. In October 2020, we interviewed Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, former candidate for this contested presidential election, and in June 2021 we debriefed a mission of our colleague Frédéric Petit to Vilnius and Warsaw, during which he met several leaders of the Belarusian opposition. Each time, we had expressed our concerns and praised the springs and incredible determination of the pro-democracy demonstrations. Since then, Russia and Belarus have chosen to make a historical rapprochement by deepening their economic integration and military doctrine in documents signed on 4 November 2021. Since then, too, the Belarusian regime has attempted a scabrous manoeuvre by encouraging several thousand migrants to come together at the border between Poland, Lithuania and Latvia in an attempt to enter the European Union. This has led to a genuine attempt to destabilise the borders of the European Union through the use of migratory flows, organised and coordinated by a State, which may have been similar to a form of hybrid conflict. This motion for a resolution, tabled on the initiative of the MODEM Group, was co-signed by some Members of the Socialist and Related Group. It aims to condemn Alexander Lukashenko's illegitimate regime. Of course, we share this objective. The text condemns the numerous acts of systematic torture and repression committed by the Belarusian regime. It "calls for the immediate release of all journalists and political prisoners". It also denounces "the use of migrants as a weapon of destabilization by Alexander Lukashenko's regime and as an unacceptable violation of human rights and dignity". Above all, "it requires the holding of new free elections under the aegis of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)". It "invites the Government to support Belarusian civil society, including by supporting victim support organizations, independent media and academic programmes". Finally, he proposed that "the National Assembly should consider the establishment of an international study group to engage and establish relations with the representatives of democratic Belarus". [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, we agree with all these requests and we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u9	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u10	The previous statements and the explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution have perfectly summarized the disastrous situation in Belarus in several respects. First of all, the regime in place violates the most fundamental rights of citizens who, as a result of their opposition to the President, are subjected to violent repression and risk being detained in inhumane conditions. It is a direct violation of the rule of law at the gates of the European Union. Then, the Belarusian government maintained itself after orchestrating a parody of presidential election campaign that was the subject of massive fraud. It is a direct attack on democracy at the gates of the European Union. Finally, President Lukashenko is instrumentalizing the plight of migrants to weaken Poland, a member of the European community. This is a direct attack on territorial integrity at the gates of the European Union. The Group of the European People's Party stresses the role that France can take on this issue in its capacity as President of the Council of the European Union. To date, the European Union has adopted five packages of restrictive measures against the Lukashenko regime and a sixth is still under consideration. On 2 December 2021, the last measure was adopted targeting the judiciary, propaganda bodies, senior politicians, but also companies, in particular the Belavia airline, tour operators and hotels, accused of having participated in the orchestration of the migration crisis mentioned earlier. In concrete terms, this results in the freezing of their assets, the ban on European companies making funds available to them or the impossibility of travelling for natural persons. However, it must be admitted that it is difficult to assess the impact of these sanctions, although an evaluation report is due this month or February and the most important effects are expected from the second half of 2022. European leaders are legitimately concerned about the consequences of these sanctions on the country's overall economy and, in turn, on Belarusian civil society, which is already living in very precarious conditions. To complement this gradual approach and limit the economic impact on Belarusian society, the European Union has announced the payment of €30 million to "youth, independent media, small and medium-sized enterprises in exile and cultural actors". This is in addition to the 33 million already provided to civil society since August 2020. In response to this set of sanctions, Alexander Lukashenko introduced an embargo that includes fruit, vegetables, meat and dairy products. It is intended to prohibit imports of these products from the European Union, Canada, the United States, the United Kingdom and other European countries for a period of six months. In order to increase pressure and dry up the Apparatchiks of the Lukashenko regime, France must campaign for complementary sanctions. In particular, it can rely on the proposal of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, the main representative of the Belarusian opposition in exile, to amend the legal framework of sanctions, which would allow the number of people who could be subject to European sanctions to be increased. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] Finally, more than symbolically and in line with the recommendations of the French Academy which advises the use of the name "Belarus", the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs could use this name in its official communication, rather than that of "Belarus" which dates back to the Soviet period. Talking about Belarus is a way of putting forward the country's independence and democratic will. With respect for the democratic values that underpin the European Union and form the basis of our daily lives in its walls, the members of the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u11	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u12	Alexander Lukashenko has been in charge of Belarus since 1994 and holds his sixth presidential term in a state sometimes called the last dictatorship of Europe. All elections, since his first term, have been the occasion of electoral fraud; Lukashenko has continued to increase his censorship of the opposition and the media. The situation has particularly worsened since the election in August 2020, which was followed by a wave of harshly repressed demonstrations. Since then, Alexander Lukashenko has intensified repression: more than 400 political prisoners are registered. The media and opponents are systematically censored, I repeat, when they are not tortured and murdered by the regime. Even those who have fled the country are not safe. If a Belarusian criticises the regime outside the country, the regime attacks his family or relatives who remain there. The aim is to put an end to any popular speech and to make any protest impossible. Lukashenko is also not afraid of threatening the European Union. In recent months, the regime has been looking in Iraq and Syria for people wishing to migrate to Europe and pushing them to the Lithuanian and Polish borders, in order to destabilise the European Union. This instrumentalization of human beings for political purposes is particularly odious. Even today, several thousand refugees are massed in the forests between Poland and Belarus, by less than ten degrees – there are many deaths. Last May, the regime hijacked a airliner, an Ryanair flight connecting two European Union cities, Athens and Vilnius, with the sole aim of arresting and imprisoning a journalist on board. This act, committed within the European Union itself, is another step taken by the regime. The motion for a resolution is therefore particularly welcome. It has been co-signed by several Members of the Freedom and Territory Group and we fully support it. We salute the work of Frédéric Petit, who defends this cause and led a mission to the Belarusian opposition in exile, with our colleague from the Libertés et territoires group, Jean-Michel Clément. Attention should be paid to point 7 of the proposal. The Belarusian opposition in exile, established mainly in Poland and Lithuania, must receive the full support of the French and European authorities. We want to believe that this situation is not going to continue. Democracy can and must exist in Belarus. But we must also look further. Behind the Belarusian action, Russia's action is worrying. Russia, which is holding the country economically, is indeed the guarantor of Lukashenko's continued rule. As we discuss, it has massed 100,000 soldiers on the Ukrainian border and sent several thousand soldiers to suppress the ongoing popular protests in Kazakhstan. If there can be no peace without peace with Russia, we must not misunderstand the intentions of the Russian government, which seeks to maintain its zone of influence and to maintain a quasi-truthful situation in the former countries of the Eastern Bloc. It also seeks to destabilize Western democracies, including through misinformation on social networks. A positive development of the situation in Belarus necessarily requires negotiation or the establishment of a balance of power with Russia, so that it diminishes its support for the regime with which the agreement has not always been frankly cordial. To make this possible, the European Union must assert itself. Sanctions against the Belarusian leadership had been a first step, but they should be strengthened. Nationalism and authoritarianism are gaining ground all over the world. The logic of realpolitik and power relations between powers again dominates international relations, to the detriment of multilateralism and human rights, which are relegated after other priorities. [[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] In this context, the European Union must not eclipse and disappear from the international game. It must speak with a strong and united voice, and above all not abandon the values that underpin it: the universal fight for human rights. European strategic independence has been a repeated mantra for many years. It's time to move on to action. The fall of the United States shows us that we must count on ourselves, Europeans. Ultimately, what is happening at the gates of Europe must indignant us and lead to a firm response from the French and European authorities. This is about the credibility of the European Union as a power in the world. The Liberties and Territories Group supports the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u13	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u14	In August 2020, Victor Lukashenko, the Belarusian despot, once again trampled on the hopes of his people by blaming the elections. For thirty-two years now, Belarusians have been living under the yoke of a ruthless dictatorship, the last stigma in Europe of a past period. Yet, for several weeks, the mobilization of all Belarusians – students, workers, employees – was admirable. With this protest, this popular surge guided by the commitment to rights, freedom and democracy, Minsk has opened the horizon of all peoples struggling for this freedom and rights. But the regime's crackdown on unprecedented violence has dubbed any lasting hope for democratic transition. In four nights, more than 6,000 people were arrested. The opposition was forced into exile; journalists and activists who have not fled have been imprisoned, in disregard of the most basic rights of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Since then, the regime has continued to flee ahead in a spiral of violence and torture that seems endless. Lukashenko did not even hesitate to have a plane hijacked, in order to put under locks journalist Roman Protassevich and his companion Sofia Sapega. [[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We have welcomed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs the main opponent, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya. Ladies and gentlemen, this strong gesture, designed to keep the democratic opposition alive and to support it, commits us. This is rare enough to be said here in the gallery. What strong commitments have we made during this quinquennium to support the supporters of democracy in Qatar, the United Arab Emirates or to prevent the annexation of Nagorny Karabakh by Azerbaijan? Unfortunately, the answer is very simple: by your will, we have said nothing, we have done nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u15	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u16	Here is the record of five years of macroism: blind complicity with authoritarian regimes and millions of weapons of all kinds, sold all over the world, at the cost of a deafening silence when it comes to opposing the principles of our Republic to a potential customer. For our part, we have always placed ourselves on the side of peoples in search of justice, freedom and democracy. Every time the situation demanded it, we were at the side of the Belarusian people. Complacency and fraternity have and will never have their place in our political family. It is for this reason that we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, in the name of principles that we do not abjure for any reason. We will vote for the resolution, even though it gives us a biased and biased view of the situation that has been taking place since last autumn at the borders of Eastern Europe. Indeed, Lukashenko is well in the wake of Erdogan by using migrants from the Middle East to put pressure on the European Union, in order to put an end to the policy of sanctions. I should like to note that the resolution completely ignores the decisions taken by the Polish Government, which are unworthy of the founding principles of the European Union and the European Convention on Human Rights. Worse, you want us to express our "solidarity" with this one. But we will never be in solidarity with those who build barbed wire walls to prevent those who flee from war and devastation from coming to seek asylum. We will never be in solidarity with those who ask NATO to take concrete action, as if this humanitarian crisis were to be resolved by arms. Finally, we will never stand in solidarity with a government that disregards international law and goes so far as to prevent United Nations inspectors from conducting their investigations. [[Marie-George Buffet and MM. André Chassaigne and Alain David applaud]] Understand it well: by expressing your solidarity, you give your white-seing to the use of water cannons against migrants, while the temperatures are cold. You are in line with those who think, like the President of the European Council, that the Union should have financed the kilometres of barbed wire deployed. In full solidarity with the people of Belarus, as a matter of principle, we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but we warn: by refusing to condemn, worse, by applauding these actions, you open the door to the endless instrumentalisation of exiles by authoritarian regimes. This path is and will remain unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u17	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u18	This text aimed at condemning Alexander Lukashenko's illegitimate regime is a trap. A gross trap that you tend to those who do not support your international policy guided by copying or arms sales. A text that allows you to avoid democratic virtues, while putting those who refuse to enter your game as horrible supporters of dictators. You ask in the resolution for an end to repression and torture against Belarusian opponents: who can be against this? Who would like to support a resolution calling for more torture? Of course, the Communist deputies also believe that the presidential elections of August 2020 were not held under regular conditions, and that Alexander Lukashenko violently repressed his people, including by torturing and locking up opponents. In this respect, the Communist MEPs express their full solidarity with the people of Belarus, who must be able to express themselves in complete sovereignty and democracy, a people that struggles for a shared prospect of progress, in complete independence, far from the logics of blocs. Instead of voting in favour of this resolution, which is of no use to you, apart from making you happy, we must ask ourselves the right questions. The first: who are the opponents you want to support? All defend very divergent interests, from the violent extreme right to the progressive workers' movement, to the European ultraliberals. It would seem that the only opposition you want to designate as legitimate is that of Mrs Tikhanovskaya, since it is the only one you have received on several occasions. It is therefore the ultraliberal, pro-European and supportive side of Belarus' integration into NATO that has your preference. Be aware that this opposition does not defend any of the social and political demands expressed by protesters since 2020. Second question: why are you only interested in Belarus now? Mr Lukashenko's presidency took an authoritarian turn long before 2020. In 2018 and 2019, demonstrations were severely repressed. The country had even refused to allow the United Nations representative to investigate on the spot. But, at the time, it did not seem to bother you since this State was useful to the European Union, as demonstrated by its role in the Ukrainian crisis and the conclusion of the Minsk agreements of 2014. This brings me to my third question: is it because Alexander Lukashenko is no longer useful to the European Union that we must now be indignant about the fate of his opponents? Unlike you, whose indignations are selective, we, the Communist deputies, fight day after day for peace and against all injustices committed in the world, no matter who is the author and who are his friends. We are fighting the imprisonment of thousands of children, administrative detention and torture of thousands of Palestinians. I have never seen a resolution from your group on this subject. We support daily the migrants who are victims of Europe's fortress, locked up in camps, whether in Calais, Greece or Belarus. We do not cry about their fate only when it suits us, and we did not pass the "asylum and immigration" law. The Communists supported the elected members of the HDP (Democratic People's Party) imprisoned by Erdogan. I even went to Turkey in 2017 to support these MPs in the parody of trials to which they were subjected. I have not seen a resolution on this subject. Despite the Turkish occupation of a territory belonging to Cyprus, the European Union is never understood; it never proposes a resolution to demand the peace and sovereignty of Cyprus. We are committed to helping the Saharawi women activists, to whom the Moroccan police are inflicting the worst abuses. Where are you when we ask you to discuss it? We support the African peoples against their torturers in Djibouti, Cameroon, Chad, Comoros and Togo. Where are your resolutions? Where is your resolution calling on the French State to support the publication of the report of the United Nations mapping project, which names and denounces each perpetrator of crimes against humanity committed in the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly in the provinces of North and South Kivu? Dr. Mukwege, Nobel Peace Prize laureate, calls on France to commit itself to this issue. Perhaps it would be time to hear it. Are you going to present a resolution to combat the torture practised with impunity by your great friend in Saudi Arabia, Mohammed Ben Salmane, or to denounce the death of the workers in Qatar – unless your indignation is not compatible with the sale of Rafale?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u19	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] You understand, we refuse this binary trap. Since we stand in solidarity with the peoples in struggle and suffering, we will not vote against the text. The Communists will support you on the day you propose a resolution calling on France to combat torture and arbitrary detention globally.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u21	Mrs Nicole Trisse has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u22	Frédéric Petit's motion for a resolution calls for a firm and unambiguous condemnation of a dictatorial regime clawed over itself, and of a leader who does not retreat from any means to maintain his grip on the Belarusians. Alexander Lukashenko's Belarus has always had a separate regime within continental Europe. As the last country in Europe to apply the death penalty, it is also the only country not to be a member of the Council of Europe, which prevents its citizens from resorting to the European Court of Human Rights. The successive elections of President Lukashenko since 1994 have been marred by suspicions of fraud and intimidation of other candidates. We already knew. From now on, we can say straight away that, for the past two years, the Minsk regime has reached a point of no return in terms of repression and violations of freedoms. Moreover, the presidential election of 9 August 2020 was not recognised legitimate by the European States, the Council of Europe or even the Belarusians, since its outcome led to many peaceful demonstrations throughout the country. Yet their President has not hesitated to use all means, particularly the most repressive ones, to break this momentum, this legitimate demand for democracy and transparency. A storm of arrests, arbitrary detentions, beatings and imprisonment in unworthy conditions has struck peaceful demonstrators. Opponents were forced into exile or arbitrarily arrested. Some have perished. I am thinking in particular of Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who had to flee to Lithuania the night after the election, and Maria Kolesnikova, who was sentenced to 11 years in prison – the Council of Europe awarded him the Václav-Havel Human Rights Prize last October. I am also thinking of political figures and senior officials, such as Pavel Latouchka, who took all the risks by refusing to condone the regime's abuses, and had to go into exile. This is the reality of Belarus: hundreds of political prisoners, repressed demonstrations and strikes, chased and arrested opponents, barred lawyers, a gagged press and banned non-governmental organizations (NGOs). Massive misinformation, practised by television and official radio stations, complements this work of undermining the population. President Lukashenko not only threatens the individual freedoms of his compatriots, but endangers the geopolitical balance by flouting all international rules. Its regime behaved like that of a rogue state, diverting a Ryanair airliner to get hold of the opponent Roman Protassevich. He does not recede in the face of any ignominy when his leader uses the distress of thousands of migrants, whom he attacks on the borders of Poland and Lithuania, with the sole aim of provoking the European Union, for it refuses to grant it any legitimacy. For all these reasons, we cannot remain indifferent to the actions of the one whom Condoleezza Rice, former US Secretary of State, called Europe's last dictator. To support the opposition in exile and to recognize it as the legitimate representative of its people therefore seems to me to be obvious. It is also necessary to continue the policy of economic sanctions against Minsk, until the democratic developments that the Belarusians are asking for have begun. Finally, as the Russians are alone in supporting the regime in place, it seems to me essential to discuss with them, in order to convince them to urge Lukashenko to propose new democratic elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is welcome and I thank Frédéric Petit for proposing it to us because it is urgent to endorse our support for the Belarusian people who are exhausted and need help. Let us not be mistaken: every action we take in this direction puts additional pressure on Alexander Lukashenko's regime. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group and on several benches of the Dem group]] Of course, we were already several parliamentarians involved in the resolution of this crisis, thanks in particular to the France-Belarussie Friendship Group, chaired by Christophe Lejeune, to the OSCE – I greet Sereine Mauborgne – and to the Council of Europe, in particular to its French delegation, of which I have the honour of being the President. But it is time for Parliament as a whole to be part of this process. That is why the Group of the European People's Party supports this motion for a resolution which calls for a firm condemnation of the Lukashenko regime and its actions and calls for the holding of new elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u23	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u24	The motion for a resolution that we are considering, on the initiative of Frédéric Petit, aims to solemnly condemn Alexander Lukashenko's illegitimate regime. On 2 December 2021, the European Union adopted a fifth series of sanctions against the Belarusian regime, which commits serious human rights violations and uses migrants shamefully, cynically, for political purposes, to destabilise certain countries of the European Union. Since the presidential election in Belarus in August 2020, the European Union, with the support of France, has imposed, as I said, several sets of sanctions against this unrecognized authority. The results of the rigged election had in fact led to an unprecedented movement of demonstrations and protests, which were repressed with extreme violence – arrests, torture, disappearance of opponents, demonstrators, journalists, etc. The Heads of State and Government of the European Union had to react immediately, adopting a first series of sanctions against those responsible for electoral fraud and repression. Neither the European Union nor the United States has recognized the legitimacy of Alexander Lukashenko, who remains in power for a sixth term. Unfortunately, these early sanctions have not yet borne fruit. The Belarusian regime has not hesitated to behave like a rogue state, by practicing what, like the European Union, we have called for state piracy, by intercepting a plane of the Ryanair company, to force it to land under a false pretext and to arrest the journalist and opponent Roman Protassevich, as well as the friend who accompanied him. Here again, the European Union has strongly condemned this unacceptable act. Moreover, the odious and cynical manipulation of the plight of unfortunate migrants continues at the borders of Belarus with Poland and with Lithuania, although, for several reasons, it is no longer illuminated by the media spotlight. This dictatorial regime has written this new chapter to put pressure on Europe and divert the attention of its own citizens. We must denounce with the utmost energy what is like trafficking in human beings. The European Union responded by suspending the agreement with Belarus to facilitate the issuance of visas for officials. Given the geopolitical interests in the region and the relations that Belarus has with the Russian "big brother" – who are evolving – we are aware that we need to go further. We must maintain pressure with the sanctions regime and find ways to provide operational support to Belarusian opponents and citizens. The members of the Republican Group will therefore vote with enthusiasm and conviction for the motion for a resolution defended by Frédéric Petit, whose committed and stubborn fight for the rights of the citizens of Belarus I welcome. No fewer than four resolutions were discussed and widely voted on in the European Parliament by Members of all nationalities and groups. It is time for the National Assembly, in turn, to pronounce itself unambiguously.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u25	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u26	The authoritarian drift of the Belarusian regime is serious: France and Europe cannot remain silent. Mr Frédéric Petit's motion for a resolution, which calls on the National Assembly to solemnly condemn Alexander Lukashenko's illegitimate regime, is therefore very timely. Since the stolen election in 2020, France has strongly condemned the crackdown on any dissenting vote by Alexander Lukashenko's regime. I recall this – several of you referred to it – in August 2020, hundreds of thousands of people of all ages and backgrounds were peacefully demonstrating in the country to challenge the results of a rigged presidential election. Not content with refusing any dialogue with the forces of the democratic opposition, Mr Lukashenko chose to establish a regime based on fear and arbitrariness, whose terrible figures allow to measure the brutality: 35,880 arrests; nearly 1,000 political prisoners – subjected to unacceptable conditions of detention, in jails where dozens of cases of torture have been recorded; 275 purely and simply dissolved NGOs; A hundred independent media outlets are simply banned. Unfortunately, there is nothing to suggest that this situation could improve in the short term. The constitutional reform announced by Mr Lukashenko to appease the demonstrations of autumn 2020 has been prepared by the Belarusian authorities in the greatest opacity. In the absence of any concession from the government, this reform project will not allow the desired process of democratisation of the regime to begin. Let us not be fooled: the referendum envisaged at the end of February to validate the constitutional reform will probably be tainted by as many frauds as the election of August 2020. So we have no illusion – I have no illusion – about the nature of the Belarusian regime. Lukashenko wants only one thing: to remain in power. He's willing to do anything to get there. That is why the Government has refused to allow our Ambassador-designate to Belarus to present his credentials. That is also why we instructed him to leave the country when the Belarusian regime objected to him continuing his mission under these conditions. Appointed Special Envoy of France for Belarus, he is now in charge of contacts with Belarusian refugees outside their country. Our partners in the European Union have adopted the same attitude. If we follow this issue very closely, it is also because Minsk has, in recent months, carried out a policy of destabilization vis-à-vis the Member States of the European Union, and therefore the European Union itself. I think, in particular, of two unacceptable episodes that you have mentioned. On 23 May, the Belarusian authorities forced the landing of a airline between Athens and Vilnius, in order to arrest an opposition journalist, Roman Protassevitch, and his companion, Sofia Sapega, who were both on board. We obviously called for the release of these two people and denounced this heinous act, all the more irresponsible because, by illegally diverting this flight from Ryanair, the Belarusian authorities also endangered the safety of all the passengers, among whom were several French. Within the framework of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), we are currently pursuing the necessary steps to ensure that the Belarusian authorities are held accountable for this act of air piracy, because that is what this is all about – we should have the results of this action in the coming days. Another unacceptable episode: from last July, the Minsk regime began to transport thousands of migrants from the Middle East to its borders with Poland, Lithuania and Latvia. Let us be clear about the diagnosis – you have been, both of you: the Belarusian authorities have exploited the hopes of these migrants in an attempt to divide Europeans. In doing so, they did not hesitate to endanger the lives of men, women and children, and to violate Belarus' international obligations. Let us be equally clear on the outcome of this manoeuvre: it has failed, because we have been able to react in a united, solidarity and very firm manner, by mobilizing our levers of diplomatic and economic power, both vis-à-vis Belarus, and countries whose migrants instrumentalized by the Belarusian regime originate. You see this, together with a scourge for the Belarusian people, the authoritarian drift of Mr Lukashenko is a challenge for Europeans – first of all for our Polish, Lithuanian and Latvian partners, but also for all of us, if only because the borders between these countries and Belarus are also the borders of our Union. So collectively we had to react, and that's what we did, showing that we too were ready to take on a balance of power – because that's what this is all about. Thanks to the firmness and responsiveness of Europeans, five sanctions packages were adopted, designating 183 individuals and 26 entities, in connection with the falsification of the August 2020 election, the repression of civil society, the hijacking of the Ryanair flight and the instrumentalisation of migrants. Sectoral sanctions were also adopted last June, particularly in the air sector, against Belavia. The first effects of these sanctions are already being felt, particularly in the financial sector. I repeat – Mr Petit has mentioned such a hypothesis – that the European Union stands ready to strengthen these sanctions in the light of developments and the assessment of the situation: our approach is gradual, in order to allow the Lukashenko regime the possibility of reacting. Otherwise, we will have new consequences. Let us be clear, these sanctions are obviously not designed to add to the misfortune of a population already hard hit by Mr Lukashenko's abuses. On the contrary, they aim to put pressure on the regime to engage in genuine political dialogue with the democratic opposition. That is our goal. That is why, at the same time, we actively support the legitimate democratic aspirations of the Belarusian people, first of all by publicly denouncing the brutal repression carried out by the Belarusian regime, denying any legitimacy to Lukashenko, including diplomatically. I would also remind you that, as of September 2020, the President of the Republic was one of the very first heads of state to meet Mrs Tikhanovskaya – the emblematic personality of the democratic process and the struggle against Lukashenko...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u27	You think she is!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u28	She's brave!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u29	But there are other iconic personalities, Mr. Lecoq. You mentioned Dr. Mukwege, well, I received it last week about Kivu – but this is Belarus. I have received on several occasions Mrs Tikhanovskaya, with whom I have regular contacts, as well as with her entourage and the people who support her democratic struggle. From the beginning of the crisis in Belarus, France has strengthened its support to Belarusian civil society: through the European Fund for Democracy (FEDEM) and by supporting Belarusian youth who have been able to leave the country to study abroad – by increasing our scholarships for these young people by 60%, by establishing a partnership with the University of Warsaw to welcome them and by opening a study centre in Vilnius to welcome students in exile. At European level, last May the Commission presented a €3 billion economic support plan for a future democratic Belarus. This ambitious plan aims to accompany the country as soon as the democratic transition process is initiated, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy to which Belarus should therefore be entitled. I come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Frédéric Petit and several parliamentary groups. In the light of what has just been said, the Government can only support the adoption of this text, which condemns the acts of torture and systematic repression committed by the Belarusian regime, which stresses the importance of France's and the European Union's support for the people of Belarus and the opponents of the Lukashenko regime, which calls for the holding of new free and democratic elections in Belarus, and which expresses France's solidarity with our European partners. The Government also relies on the wisdom of your Assembly regarding the establishment of an international study group, which is called upon to establish relations with the representatives of democratic Belarus, because, by virtue of the separation of powers, it is the sole decision-making body in this regard. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] Finally, I would like to use this rostrum as a reminder of a number of principles. I reiterate this very clearly and strongly: we call on the Belarusian authorities to release immediately and unconditionally journalists and political prisoners detained in the country; no dialogue can take place with Mr Lukashenko as long as the repression and stifling of civil society continues; Similarly, no authority will be recognized until further free and transparent elections are held under the auspices of the OSCE and the perpetrators of the regime's crimes are brought to justice for their actions. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, LR and Agir ens]] You can count, ladies and gentlemen, on our mobilization to support the Belarusian people in their democratic aspirations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u30	On the motion for a resolution I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Even if this is not usual on this type of text, we come to the explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u31	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u32	I'll just have a few remarks to make. The number of political prisoners does not amount to 500 but doubles since there will soon be 1000. It should also be remembered – we tend to forget – that mass demonstrations preceded the election. Madame Autain, I knew that I was a bad guy, that I was rich, that I was a Duplo with godillos; I just learned that I was complacent with the tyrants. We really need to get out of the labels because they block and don't make it possible to change the world. I'm sorry to tell you this, but I'm very surprised by what you said: I know you, but if that weren't the case, I would have been really shocked. I referred to solidarity with Poland: I am not in solidarity with the current Polish government, Mrs Autain. This does not prevent me from being in solidarity with a country and its efforts: Poland has shown the way and refuses to recognise the Belarusian Parliament since 2004 – it is in this matter ahead of us. Finally, Madame Autain, it was announced that it was a war – "I will send you migrants, then I will send you the drugs, then I will send you the mafia! – and we must defend ourselves well, especially since there is no wall between the two borders – nothing has moved on a practical level. Dear colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq, no, there is not only Mrs Tikhanovskaya, since we are in contact with Pavel Latouchka – it has been recalled – and with other opponents.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u33	But you didn't say!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u34	You say that Tikhanovskaya represents unbridled global liberalism when it has only one political ambition: to repeat the elections, as she said the day after them. And what she wants most of all is to find her husband. Moreover, you claim that nothing has been done before today: no. Europe has been reacting since 2004, since the refusal of the Polish government, since the Lithuanian government reacted a few years ago. I am not in solidarity with these countries today, on the grounds that I am their big brother, but I am, including what they did before us – and they reacted before us, long before 2020. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, let us not confuse, given the Russian side, what is happening in Ukraine and what is happening in Belarus: the stakes for Russia in Belarus and Ukraine are completely different.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u35	What about our speaking time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u36	I didn't mention it, but this point may deserve to be updated – I didn't say reformed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u37	Let's not reduce speaking time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u38	Besides, I'll give it to you, Mr. Lecoq.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u39	There has been a sufficient reduction in the speaking time of Members in this Parliament, and there is no need to add more! Instead, in the next parliamentary term, we will tend to amend the Rules of Procedure to extend speaking time, so that we can present demonstrations, analyses, rather than just ask questions – because we have been reduced to questions on many occasions, especially in committee. I am surprised, Minister, that you are supporting the creation of a study group on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u40	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u41	You just said it! The establishment of a study group falls within the competence of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u42	The minister said he was relying on the wisdom of the assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u43	You didn't listen to me, Mr. Lecoq!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u44	Oh, yes, I listened to you, because I was waiting for answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u45	I said I was relying on the wisdom of the deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u46	The creation of a study group presupposes the removal of the friendship group on the same object, which raises questions. When you welcome foreign students, this implies the establishment of a convention, including with their country of origin, which implies cooperation in this area. We can therefore question the relations between France and Belarus. The Communists have always said that they agree on the principle of sanctions, since they do not endanger the peoples of different countries. While sanctions against certain countries have consequences for peoples, we often respond by calling on you to punish the leaders, to prevent people from being penalized, especially in the food sector. Then, Frédéric Petit and the minister say they denounce blackmail to drugs, migrants and borders. But you forget to say that Belarus is not the first country to blackmail Europe with drugs and migrants. Remember...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u47	Erdogan's Turkey!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u48	... Turkey of Erdogan and Morocco that let migrants pass. Have we observed the same mobilization against these countries? I'm not sure. Mr Petit, this is your constituency, so I understand that you have presented this motion for a resolution; You're talking about what you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u49	The migrants were already in Turkey.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u50	But in other countries, the same events have occurred without the fact that Parliament and the Government are mobilizing as much, even though they have been arrested. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left blames you not for your explanations, dear colleague, but for diplomatic action with varying geometry. You denounce the practices of Belarus, but when the people of some other countries experience such difficult or even worse situations, you remain silent, in particular to preserve relations with them. Thus, we no longer dare to defend the Palestinian people for fear of being accused of anti-Semitism; We are self-censored not to fuel anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism. Yet a people suffers. Let us put an end to this diplomacy with variable geometry: abandoning the diplomacy of the business that it favours today, that France should return to a diplomacy of the Enlightenment. If we defend our values all over the world again, you will see that we will be better respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u51	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u52	All right! It's a lesson in diplomatic ethics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u53	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u54	Mr. Petit, I did not personally question you; I have sent criticisms, of course acerbic, to the Government. I have listened, as often, to Mr. Le Drian doing his umpteenth political science course on the situation. Nevertheless, I have no answer to the questions that I have asked which are in line with those of my colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq. These relate to the fact that, when we express our solidarity throughout the world, there is double standards. We do not accept this difference in treatment between countries that suffer – and there are many. Secondly, in the diplomacy of the Government, what takes precedence over the rest is the importance attached to arms sales, as well as a realpolitik that sits on the founding principles of our Republic. This is not acceptable, we denounce it and we will continue to denounce it. I'm not questioning you personally. As you have noted, we will vote on the motion for a resolution. Nevertheless, I do not want to ignore our anger at your choices. My colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq said: what is happening in this part of the world is unacceptable. I am thinking in particular of the choices made by France. It considers that migration flows are a problem, that migrants must be hunted, and it makes and continues to make small arrangements with Turkey. That is still what is happening today, and it is not acceptable. I denounce political acts, which has nothing to do with labels. I am not saying that, as a matter of principle, you are acting in such or such a way; I draw conclusions from your assessment and your choices, since we come to the end of the quinquennium. And I'm angry, hear it. However, in order to express our solidarity with this suffering people, we will vote for this motion for a resolution. I could just as well tell you that we will not vote for it, as we are angry. However, we will vote in conscience, because it is out of the question of not being one of those who will support the suffering people. However, we do not give any blanks to the choices of expression or to the policy led by Emmanuel Macron and the Government that you support.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u55	But this is a motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u56	You support her.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u57	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u58	A few months ago, at its hearing by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Svetlana Tikhanovskaya said that political prisoners in Belarus are more ill-treated than those in ordinary law. Yet, they did not commit any crime – no rapes, no murders, they only supported candidates in the presidential election. Along with Nicole Trisse, president of the French delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe – PACE – and Mr Lejeune, president of the France-Bielorussia friendship group, I would point out that the international study group – GEVI – mentioned by the minister and to be created by our assembly, will be able to gather only Belarusian elected representatives in exile. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Dem group]] Mr. Tikhanovski was sentenced to 18 years in prison for running for office in the presidential election. In my capacity as President of the French delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, I hope that one day the Belarusian Government will be held accountable for its actions against freedom of the press and torture in prisons. The Group of the European People's Party supports the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petit, which I thank again.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u59	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u60	By voting on this motion for a resolution, the Republican Group wants to set out two messages. The first, of course, is a message of condemnation by the Belarusian regime, which has demonstrated in recent years that it not only disregards the rights of its fellow citizens, but also that its behaviour is disturbing the international community. The National Assembly was right to use its constitutional capacity of diplomatic expression since 2008. We will vote on this resolution because it is necessary to set limits on the behaviour of this regime in the international community. But above all, through the French Presidency of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, we want to call on the Government to commit itself even more firmly to the support of Poland and the Baltic neighbours of Belarus, victims of this migratory aggression. This autumn, I drafted a motion for a resolution with many colleagues in the Republican Group, including Constance Le Grip. The aggression against Poland and its Baltic neighbours is an aggression of which the European Union, therefore, has been the victim. I wish to maintain the system of free movement of persons within the Schengen area, which means that we are able to protect our external border. Today, it is located in the Podlachie forest between Poland and Belarus. It is necessary for us in the Council of Ministers of the European Union to be at the forefront of helping Poland financially in order to secure this border, which is ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u61	He wants to redo walls!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u62	I regret that we have sometimes given the feeling of being hesitant. Secretary of State Clement Beaune had some unfortunate statements. The Polish Government cannot be legitimately condemned when it wishes to strengthen its border in a very operational way. [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] A few years ago, in his remarkable essay Éloge des frontières, Régis Debray explained it well: the border is like the door of a house, it allows you to choose who goes in and who goes out. We all have a front door in our house. We are happy to be able to open it or to open it generously whenever we wish; We are also happy to be able to close it to protect our home. It is about our home and the European Union: we must intervene ardently, clearly, financially, to support our Polish and Baltic partners, who, as much as we do and sometimes better than us, protect our European border.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u63	I shall put to the vote the whole motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u64	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 37 Number of votes cast 34 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 34 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u65	The next item is the debate on the bill, as amended by the Senate, on adoption (No. 4607, 4897).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u66	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u67	More than a year after its first reading, we are here to discuss again the measures contained in the bill to reform the adoption. This parliamentary year, somewhat upset by the health crisis, has largely been devoted to the texts on the state of health emergency. Nevertheless, we have made progress on many other projects and topics, and that is very happy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This year, after intense discussions in this chamber, the bill was considered by the Senate. Interesting discussions – it's very logical, because the subject is rich –, sometimes passionate too, have taken place. I recall that the matter had already been the subject of serious work by MP Monique Limon, whom I salute once again, and by Senator Corinne Imbert. At an early stage, I had entrusted them with the task of conducting a wide-ranging reflection on this subject. Regrettably, the exchanges could not reach an earlier conclusion, as the text could not - at one point - be agreed in the Joint Joint Committee. So there has been a year of waiting, of hoping for beautiful stories, but also disappointments, it is true, for the children of our country in search of a family. It is not an insult to our adoption policy to say that it gives rise to sometimes disappointed hopes. We still leave too many children on the side of the road leading to adoption, while for many it represents an adapted and secure life horizon. Our rich and comprehensive adoption system paves the way for simple or plenary adoptions, whether domestic or non-family, national or international. It provides, where necessary, for a significant number of checks, checks, guarantees, support for children and families. This system has its strengths and successes, but it needs to be further improved, particularly by pursuing three main objectives that this bill promotes. The first objective is to make it possible to adopt more children. There is currently a lack of clear provisions for giving a family to each child who does not have a family or whose family would no longer be able to take care of it. This lack is a terrible breach of equality, the consequences of which can be severe for the child's personal, emotional and psychological development. It is the great strength of this text to make possible the adoption of more children for whom it represents the desirable horizon. I believe that it is to the honour of your Assembly to restore Article 4 and thus allow children who have so far been deprived of this possibility to be adopted in plenary after 15 years by their stepfather or stepmother, or when they are pupils of the State, or when they have been declared judicially abandoned and are therefore in a path of fragility that has not been sufficiently taken into account. I stress this third possibility, because of course it complements the law of 15 March 2016 on the protection of the child, which instituted the procedure of abandonment. This is taking place in practice, as indicated by the figures I have given you and I will remind you if you wish, and it allows more and more to put an end, at the right time, to toxic relationships that may exist – you must say so – between parents and their children. It will therefore be possible tomorrow, including beyond the age of 15, for these children, to register on routes much more suited to their expectations. This is a great step forward. I would also point out the strength of article 8, which allows the court, if it is in the interests of the adopted person, to issue the adoption of a minor over the age of 13 or of a protected adult who is out of state to consent personally, after obtaining the opinion of an ad hoc administrator or of the person responsible for a legal protection measure with representation relating to the person. It is a fair, clear and secure measure. The second main objective of this text is to correct a number of inconsistencies or failures, perhaps, in the area of adoption, and in doing so to secure children's journeys, which is our main concern. There are still too many incoherences and failures that are all factors of insecurity for the children to whom we must ensure the most serene and soothing daily life possible. First and foremost, there are clear rules, such as those that will be in force tomorrow thanks to this text. First of all, with regard to approvals, we want to strengthen the conditions for applying, training and accompanying future adopters, because securing the child requires support for adopters and the most useful and intensive preparation possible. Second, adoption between ascendants and descendants in direct line and between brothers and sisters will be prohibited, in order to avoid the interference of generational lines – this subject had been debated in this assembly. Finally, we want to clarify the rules regarding the consent of each other. First of all, I think about children's consent. Their words need to be taken more into account, for example with regard to name change – I know that your assembly will come back to this issue in the context of a dedicated bill that will be considered shortly. I am also thinking, of course, of the consent of biological parents. I have noted that, on article 13 of the text, some have expressed concerns or even criticisms, some of which I regret for being unnecessarily controversial, because diverted – I have read amazing statements this morning in the press, saying that we are removing the consent of biological parents to adoption. I would have the opportunity to come back, because that is obviously not the case. No, the state or child welfare will not force adoptions against parents' opinions tomorrow. No, we're not going to kidnap children from loving families and entrust them, to little happiness, to adoption. And no, three times no, we do not forget the interest of the child: it is even the only compass to which we refer, the only objective that we aim by this text. Let it be clear and that the misunderstandings maintained by some people are dispelled: the changes made by this text are not a change in the rule of law, but a clarification of the rule of law. At present, the Codes provide that parents are already required to consent to adoption when they hand over the child to child welfare (SSA) for admission to the status of a pupil of the State, and that this decision is ultimately the responsibility of the family council, which may, even if the parents do not consent, authorize adoption, if of course it is in the best interests of the child. We always return to the interests of the child. This interest requires clarification of texts which may sometimes mislead parents about the reality of their rights, or which may be diverted to block, often for unacceptable reasons, procedures which are beneficial to children, or which finally contribute to the idea that pupil status is solely intended to lead to adoption, while it is clear that adoption may not be in the interest of a ward of the State, for example when it has strong ties with its foster family or does not wish to be adopted. Article 13 will make it possible to clarify and secure procedures for all stakeholders, starting with children, without in any way calling into question the rights of anyone. It seemed important to me to clarify this point right now, even though we may have the opportunity to come back to it during the debates, and to respond to this rostrum in the wrong way – again this morning – to this text. The third objective of the bill is to change practices to ensure both the safety and equal treatment of children. This implies first of all that we shed light on a number of practices that did not meet the standards of safety and quality that a country such as ours should require in the area of child protection. This is the case with the adoption agencies (OAA), which I understand they wrote a lot to you this time, as they did last year. The OAA's operation was no longer in full agreement with their title. I say this without any will to cast reproach on these associations, the vast majority of which carry out a work praised by the actors in the adoption sector and by myself. But in France there is a system, that of ESA, whose very existence indicates the collective concern to ensure an intervention, a look, a public guarantee of the safety of children. Indeed, this system responds to a sufficient number of regulations to ensure the safety of children, even if it still needs to be improved, which is again what the text is about. All adoption procedures must be able to enjoy the same security conditions for children and adopters. No situation can justify that some children who can benefit from the Pupil status of the State, with all the guarantees and protections that this status implies, when others are deprived of it, whatever the reasons. To say this is not – as I have sometimes heard or read it again this morning – to condemn the action of the OAA, which we preserve and perpetuate on two aspects. Internationally, we establish the dual security of authorization by the departmental councils and authorization by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At national level, we create in Article 11 the possibility for departmental councils to call upon them to identify, among the approved persons they accompany, candidates who may host, for adoption, children with special needs. The work of the APOs in this regard is remarkable and must be encouraged. I therefore stress what I had already had the opportunity to say at first reading: the expertise of the OAA will continue to be valuable. The other part of the shadow on which it is essential to shed light relates to illegal international adoptions. I am aware of the concern of a number of you on this issue. As I announced in the Senate, the Government will soon begin work to ensure transparency, clarity and objectivity on these stories that affect a significant number of our fellow citizens. I hope that, along with other countries such as the Netherlands, we can, as a matter of responsibility and benevolence, accompany those who might have been affected by this reality. Ladies and gentlemen, this text is rich. It may be technical, but it has a tremendous number of measures whose impact will be very concrete for hundreds of thousands of children. It is their interest, always their interest, that has been and will remain, in our debates, my only compass and – I have no doubt – yours. Of course, as Secretary of State for Children and Families, I am not minimizing the importance of this text in our collective struggle to advance the rights of families, of all families, to recognize their diversity and to meet their expectations. Finally, by opening adoption to non-married couples, this text is consistent with the evolution of society. It recognizes the expectations of families corresponding to new models that are just as legitimate and with just as many promises and guarantees as others. It was time, even if it clearly bothers and will continue to hinder a number of actors opposed, sometimes in principle, to a more inclusive society. By ensuring consistency with the Bioethics Act, the Act provides a suitable solution to the difficulties encountered by some women who, prior to the entry into force of the Act, had resorted to medical assistance in procreation (AMP) abroad. It was necessary, even though some have still not mourned their fight against this law of progress. Finally, by strengthening the diversity of family councils, reaffirming a number of ethical principles that we have been promoting for the past two years, this text guarantees better consideration of the specificity of the multiple family models that make our society rich. That's indispensable. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In many ways, the measures in this text make it possible to firmly and definitively anchor the adoption in the protection of children and in a modernity concerned with the well-being of all members of our society, especially the youngest and most fragile. All its provisions are designed for the sole benefit of children for whom adoption is a horizon synonymous with development and families for whom it represents a bright horizon. Many children are still waiting for him. Many families are ready to do so. Let us finally give them the full possibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u68	Mrs Monique Limon, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u69	We are looking again at the reform expected from adoption. As the Secretary of State recalled, it is the result of important prior work that I conducted with my colleague Senator Corinne Imbert, with whom I wrote a report entitled "Towards an Ethics of Adoption." Giving a family to a child", handed over to the Prime Minister in October 2019. It is precisely this report that inspired the original content of the eighteen articles of this bill tabled on 30 June 2020 in the National Assembly. The text has been enriched, at first reading, by this House with the addition of an essential component strengthening the guarantees of intercountry adoption. In particular, we have voted to ban individual intercountry adoption by introducing compulsory support either by an authorized body for adoption or by the Agence française de l'adoption (AFA). The Senate adopted this bill at first reading on October 20, 2021, in a version, alas, modified and lightened by several devices. I regret that we have not been able to agree, with our fellow senators, on a compromise text at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee on November 4, 2021. I regret it all the more because, together with rapporteur Muriel Jourda, we have made progress on many points. Unfortunately, the CMP has taken over one article, Article 9 bis. It was impossible for us to give up this article because our majority and the Government had made firm and repeated commitments to resolve the difficulties faced by couples of women who had used an MPA abroad, before the Bioethics Act came into force, in cases where the mother who gave birth had no legitimate reason to oppose the joint and retroactive recognition of the child by the mother of intention. That is why a new reading has been made necessary. As the bill continues its parliamentary journey, our committee reviewed the text adopted by the Senate on Wednesday, January 12, 2022. It adopted it after amending it through several amendments that redrafted various amendments or deletions of the Senate. Thus, she was able to re-establish article 9 bis allowing a separated woman to obtain the adoption of her child when her former wife, who had given birth, objected without legitimate grounds to the joint and retroactive recognition of the child. Other provisions have also been reinstated. Thus, in Article 2, which opens the adoption to couples of cohabitants and pacsés couples, the Commission has re-established the reduction to 26 years, instead of 28 years, of the age requirement for adoption, as well as the reduction to one year, instead of two, of the common life requirement for adoption by a couple. The Committee has also reintroduced in Article 4 the extensions of the permitted cases of full adoption of children over the age of 15 years; Article 6 prohibits the confusion of generations with regard to adoption; in Article 9, the collection of the consent of the child over 13 years of age to the addition of the name of the single adopter to his or her name of birth; in article 13, the need for express and informed consent of the parents to the admission of their child as a pupil of the State. On this last point, I have observed, like the Secretary of State, that many amendments have been tabled. I hope that the discussions in the session will allow us to further strengthen the system by ensuring the informed consent of the parents. I will have the opportunity to give opinions in favour of amendments in this direction. Again, I want to reassure you. It is not a question of excluding parents from the adoption plan, on the contrary; It is in the child's interest to avoid a situation in which we would find it difficult to obtain the second consent because of a lack of interest on the part of the parents. That is why we want to ensure that the consent expressed at the stage of admission to the status of ward of the State is informed and that parents appreciate the possibility of a draft adoption being defined for their child. The Pupil status of the State is a protective status that offers many guarantees and rights for children. It is a perfectly secure and reassuring framework for defining an adoption project. I am also pleased that, at each stage of the discussion, we can improve the text as the committee has done by amending several provisions to take account of the debates that took place during the parliamentary shuttle. This is the case with the definition of intercountry adoption in article 10 bis, which includes all couples, not just spouses. This is also the case with the reform of the role and control procedure of the APOs. We have found a balance: they will always be able to intervene in support of children with special needs, but they will no longer be able to collect children in France. We consider the Pupil status of the State to be more protective. The committee also proposed a new version of several provisions on the composition of the family council and the formation of its members. Upon each renewal of a family council of the wards of the State, newly appointed members will receive training prior to taking up office. We have also provided, in Article 10, for information meetings for applicants for adoption. Persons applying for approval will follow a "preparation which focuses on the psychological, educational and cultural dimensions of adoption, taking into account the reality of national and international adoption". Similarly, during the duration of the accreditation, information meetings will be offered to adoptive parents. The legislator thus sends a strong signal on the importance of training and preparation in a field as sensitive as that of adoption, an area where, each measure, each situation is different. I am also thinking of those who have been entrusted by the ESA with a child and who wish to adopt him. The vote on an amendment which I have tabled has restored the opening of an appeal in their favour, against the decisions of the Family Council, with regard to the draft adoption. Finally, by another amendment tabled by the Working Republic Group, the Committee removed the maximum age gap between adopting and adopting it as a criterion for approval, with exceptions for just reasons. Again, the aim is to consider each situation in its singularity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] At the end of this long journey, the bill will enable us to make essential progress; We have resulted in an improved, balanced text serving the interests of children, which has been and must remain my only compass at the heart of this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u70	Mrs Marie-George Buffet spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u71	Giving a family to a child when her life plan corresponds to adoption is the purpose of this bill, and I welcome the work of the rapporteur on this bill. Unfortunately, we note every year that very few children are adopted in our country. Madam rapporteur, you mention the number of 950 adopted children, while there are more than 2700 pupils in the State and 14,000 approved children who are able to receive and raise a child. This bill attempts to provide answers to this humanly unacceptable situation; It contains several advances, which the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left wishes to welcome. First of all, we share the conviction that there is not a single family model in our society, but pluralistic families, all of which guarantee stability and protection for children. The opening of the right to adoption for pacsé and cohabiting couples accompanies the openings of our society, and we welcome it. Children can be accommodated in same-sex couples, in cohabitation or pacsés, and thus be found in loving families. The exclusion of certain families because of their composition or marital status will no longer exist legally. However, care must be taken to ensure that discrimination does not occur throughout the steps and stages leading to the selection of families for adoption. We also share the desire to enhance the value of simple adoption, in order to enable adopted children to maintain the link between their parentage and their rights within their biological families. We are attentive, as you have pointed out, Madam rapporteur, to the fact that the consent of the families who entrust their child, who thus becomes a ward of the State, must be informed. The maximum age difference of 50 years between the adopter and the adopted child seems justified in order to ensure a link as long as possible. Beyond these certain and necessary advances, there are still some reservations and a point of disagreement. The narrowing of the activity of the bodies authorized for adoption to children who can be adopted abroad and not in France is, in our view, a mistake. Even if few children were born in our country, the results show that they are able to find a family for a child, including children with special needs. When agencies demonstrate their usefulness and competence, it seems a pity to deprive themselves of it, especially when it comes to responding to the best interests of the child and giving him or her a family. I hear the arguments of the rapporteur, who justifies this measure by the more protective nature of the State's pupil status for the child. But if ambition is achieved, is it not better for a child to find a family without having to go through this status? In addition, in your report, Senator Corinne Imbert co-wrote, entitled "Towards an Ethic of Adoption." Giving a child a family", you deplore the disparities that exist between the departments, on which the services of social assistance for children depend. The procedures and treatment of children to be adopted vary considerably from department to department. For example, the project for the child is not systematically implemented. Similarly, not all departments have established a multidisciplinary commission to examine the situation of children in ESA. In addition, difficulties persist in the implementation of certain measures provided for in the Act of 14 March 2016 on the protection of the child. Child protection is a major issue in our country and deserves substantial resources. I am concerned about the inequalities that affect children whose situation is already particularly fragile and painful. In the area of child protection, no deficiency is acceptable; the breakdown of equality that we know is not more so. The role of the State – I have had the opportunity to tell the Secretary of State – needs to be re-established in this area. I also wonder about the possible change of first name without the child's consent before the age of 13. The first name is part of the identity of each of us. That's the name we've been answering since we were born. Changing it is not a purely symbolic act, especially for children who have sometimes built themselves with few landmarks. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Despite these reservations, the bill takes the interests of the child as a compass in order to protect and strengthen the rights of those entrusted to adoption. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u72	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u73	What's more beautiful than offering a home to a child? Etymologically, the adopted child is a chosen child – chosen and welcomed for life. The responsibility of this gesture is immense, as is its generosity. That is what we will be debating today, more than a year after the first reading of this text by our House. We would like to thank Monique Limon and Senator Corinne Imbert for their commitment. Their work, carried out in close relationship with the Government, has led to a text that has evolved after lengthy reflections, lengthy debates sometimes very intense, especially in committee – debates also, I believe, are becoming more and more calm, because there are obvious and necessary requirements. Among the evidences that the La République group wants to defend is that of opening up to new families. As the Secretary of State said earlier, morals have changed, and different types of homes can now accommodate a child. We want to liberalize adoption and recognize these new family modalities. That is why we extend the possibility of adopting to unmarried, pacised or cohabiting couples. We are changing the age conditions to apply for adoption, to become a parent candidate, from 28 to 26, and we are reducing the minimum common life required at the time of application for adoption, from two to one year – which does not mean that there will be no years of review of the file by accreditation professionals. But we are thus opening up a little more the field of people who commit themselves to this candidacy for adoption and who, perhaps, will one day be able to offer a home to one of those children who are waiting for it. As you said, Mr Secretary of State, France must look at things as they are: there are still many children waiting for a home. We removed the provision that set a maximum age gap between adopters and the youngest adopter. As you said, Madam rapporteur, we are creating a transitional mechanism for retroactive recognition, through adoption before the courts, for the LDCs that would have been carried out prior to the enactment of the bioethics law. It was a commitment of both the majority and the various ministers who succeeded each other on the bench of the Government. We wanted to honour it, and that is what brings us together today, because, as senators refused to accept this provision, the Joint Joint Committee failed – to our great regret, because we had made progress on many points. In addition to these so-called "liberal" measures of openness to new families, the text contains measures of justice and regulation. I am thinking in particular of the planned adjustments to consent to adoption. I regret that some media did not take the time to report the reality of the bill, preferring to choose a partisan angle. Consent to adoption is by no means removed: we must not say false things to the French. It is maintained, but shifted in time. What we are looking for is a uniform definition of consent for all adoptions, whether domestic or international. It was an indispensable step. Consent must now be "free, obtained without any consideration after the birth of the child and informed of the consequences of adoption, in particular if it is given with a view to full adoption, on the complete and irrevocable nature of the rupture of the pre-existing bond of filiation". I do not go back here to everything that has already been extensively explained by the Secretary of State and by the rapporteur on the reform of the statute of the AOOs. We will come back to that when the amendments are discussed. Here too, I have read in the press articles, if not false, at least very biased: I hope that our debates will allow clarification. I would point out, on behalf of the La République en marche group, that all the measures contained in this text, "liberal" or "regulatory", are guided by the interests of the child. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This day can be valuable for many families. For children still to be adopted or who have already been adopted, I would like to quote a sentence that I find sublime. It is drawn from Rilke's Milanaese Letters: "We are born, so to speak, temporarily, somewhere; It is little by little that we compose in ourselves the place of our origin to be born there after the blow, and every day more definitely. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u74	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u75	First of all, I would like to apologise to Mr Xavier Breton, the speaker of our group at first reading, and today, on an imperative basis in his constituency. We are therefore starting a new reading of this bill to reform the adoption. As we had already pointed out at first reading, with adoption, we are taking on an extremely sensitive subject, which touches on what we have dearest, the family, and comes in resonance with life paths made of expectations, hopes, dreams but sometimes also disappointments and suffering. That is why, in all our comments, we will be careful not to fret, not to hurt those who listen to us and who may be directly involved in the issue of adoption. If the subject is so sensitive, it is also because it touches on the law of filiation, a right that has adapted over decades or centuries, and we need to evolve with all the appropriate caution, so that the family – in any case our point of view – always remains the basic cell of society, where love and solidarity are shared, strong and intense moments like small routines of everyday life; where a memory, history, future plans and sometimes trials are shared. On the basis of these findings, we must insist on rigorous and precise work because, with this text, it is about the future of children and their families. That is why, I repeat, after Xavier Breton at first reading, we regret that this bill is a bill, not a bill, which deprives us of the advice of the Council of State, which, with regard to the law of filiation, would have been valuable.It does not detract from the quality of the work and the intensity of the commitment of Mrs Monique Limon, whom I salute. The Senate, in its wisdom and with its great experience, had done a great deal of work to rewrite the bill, in order to make it more legally relevant and more consistent with the intention that must enliven us: to secure the situation of the child in order to protect his or her best interests. Refusing to carry out a new overall drafting of entire sections of the Code of Social Action and of families, which would have affected the legibility of the law, he went back to certain provisions, which we see as problematic. We shall mention five of them. First, the lowering of the conditions of age and common life for couples applying for adoption. You have decided, at first reading, to lower these thresholds to 26 years and only one year of common life. However, the present requirement of at least two years of marriage presupposes in almost all cases that the couple has been formed for a longer time: the common life begins in fact most often at the very moment of the meeting of the partners, and the common life, including in cohabitation, is therefore identical to the duration of the couple's existence. In view of the fact that according to the statistics of the National Institute for Demographic Studies, the first five years of cohabiting unions are the most crucial, the argument that the lowering of the conditions of age and duration to 26 years and one year of common life would make it possible to include the rules of adoption in the evolution of society does not convince us. Indeed, in our view, the evolution of society is rather marked by the decline in the age at which women and men have their first child. Secondly, the abolition of the intervention of approved bodies for adoption. These accredited bodies play, in a way, the role of intermediaries between adoptable children and families. They are an alternative to social services and public services which we believe are quite interesting and which we would like to be able to safeguard, especially since the rate of successful adoptions in this context is very satisfactory. Thirdly, the composition of family councils. The purpose of the Family Council is to make decisions for children in their interest. However, the proposed legislation provides for a qualified person to sit on it in relation to discrimination, which seems to us to correspond to a request that you do not really justify. From our point of view, it is difficult to see how this measure would serve the best interests of the child. Fourthly, under the guise of administrative simplification, article 13, the wording of which seems extremely dangerous to us, goes back to a fundamental right, under which the filiation of a child cannot be changed without the consent of the parents or the judge. Finally, as the rapporteur pointed out, it was on Article 9a, a logical follow-up to the Bioethics Act, that the CMP failed, and we can only deplore this failure, due to a provision that was not included in the original text. In short, we regret that, during the committee review, the majority decided to revisit most of the changes and advances introduced by the Senate, and we hope, during this debate, to succeed in building a consensus, an agreement without which we cannot vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u76	Mrs Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u77	First of all, I should like once again to welcome, Madam rapporteur, the quality and richness of your work, as well as your unwavering and long-standing commitment to this issue. Your bill facilitates and secures adoption, in the child's sole interest. It strengthens the status of ward of the State, while improving the functioning of family councils. It takes into account the changing shape of society, that of families, while strengthening the protection of children. It aims in particular to solve many of the difficulties related to the adoption regime – as amended by the law of 14 March 2016 – on the basis of the fact that too many protected minors remain in institutions or foster families, without, unfortunately, any other solution, more stable, more lasting, being proposed to them. With a decline of a few years, we can only share the conclusions of Pascale Salvage-Gerest, honorary professor at the University of Grenoble for whom "the state of the institution of adoption has become alarming". Although the adoption figures are not precise, they are nevertheless explicit: an average of 12,000 children are adopted each year in France and, in 2018, judges ruled on nearly 10,000 applications. As far as pupils in the State are concerned, about 3000 children are entitled to this status; Among them, just 1000 are entrusted to a family for adoption, while the remaining 2000 live in foster families, for three quarters of them, or in institutions. The majority of children who are not in care for adoption are minors with special needs. The MPC agreement with the senators could not be reached because of a substantive disagreement. Of course, we respect the position of senators, it is the merit of democracy to be able to freely confront the opinions and different conceptions of society. However, for the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, your text, the rapporteur, is fully in line with the societal project carried out by our majority for almost five years. It is basically a project of openness and progress, which allows our right to accompany the evolution of family models. It is in this sense that we have opened the LDC to all women, the reform that this text seeks to secure, by allowing retroactive recognition of late parentage, when there is no joint recognition for the mother of intention: it is a question of opening up, for a fixed period, the possibility of adopting the child born of a parenting project, despite the separation of the couple and the refusal of the woman who gave birth to resort to joint recognition. In line with the Bioethics Act, our group has supported in committee the re-establishment of this measure, which aims to secure the child's filiation. We also supported the re-establishment of the Assembly's version on several points: the lowering of the minimum age of future adopters from 28 to 26 years and, in the case of adoption by a couple, that of the minimum length of community of life from two to one year; the removal of the maximum gap between adopter and adopted; the express consent of the parents to the admission of their child as a pupil of the State; the necessary collection of the consent of the child over the age of 13 in the event of a change of first name; the derogations for the full adoption of children over the age of 15. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] For us, these are indescribable advances for the children, who are waiting for them, as the associations and families expect them to do. We regret, of course, that this bill took more than a year to return to our House. On behalf of the best interests of the child who has been the compass of our group and, I have no doubt, of all of us here, it is more than time to legislate, by voting on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u78	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u79	Giving a family to a child rather than giving a child to a family is the ambition of our colleague Monique Limon's bill to reverse a paradigm of another time. This ambition, the Libertés et territoires group, fully shares it. We regret that the compromise could not be reached between the Senate and the National Assembly at the Joint Joint Committee. The text of the first reading in this House seemed to us to be fair and balanced; We hope that this new reading will respect its spirit. The adoption regime was amended in part by the Child Protection Act of 14 March 2016, on the basis that too many protected minors remained in institutions or foster families, without any real alternative being offered to them. Madam rapporteur, your first assessment of this law allows you to point out that it is necessary to move more easily towards the simple adoption of children who still have their families of origin but who, because they do not raise them, are placed in the centre or with a foster family. As a reminder, especially to those who would look at us on the Assembly's video portal, if simple adoption creates a new link of filiation between the adopter and the adopted, it does not remove the ties of filiation between the adopted person and his or her family of origin; the two ties of filiation coexist. The purpose of this bill is therefore to strengthen and secure the use of adoption as a child protection tool, when such adoption is in the interest of the child concerned and only in his or her interest. Some 300,000 children are placed in France each year. Of course, not all of them can be adopted, and many find the family home more or less quickly when the accident that marked their life course is solved and, of course, when the conditions of return are met. But for those who will not have the chance to find their family of origin, it is up to the legislator, the state, the departments, the ESA to provide for everything that a child is entitled to require loving and caring adults, who will help him in turn become a happy and fulfilling adult – I would remind you that a quarter of the homeless are former children in care. I will be proud and happy to finally vote on the draft law on the protection of children, defended by Secretary of State Adrien Taquet, whose ambition is to accompany the young adults who have grown up in ESA, since the Joint Joint Committee which met only a few days ago on this text found a favourable outcome. The Libertés et Territoires Group supports this bill because it will make it possible to secure the use of adoption, to remove administrative obstacles but above all to make it a tool for the protection of children. Since the law often follows morals, it is also a matter of taking into account the evolution of society and strengthening equality between adopters, opening up the possibility of adopting unmarried couples, which we welcome. [[The rapporteur applauds]] The text will also clarify the conditions for full adoption, in order to avoid discrimination between heterosexual and homosexual couples, in accordance with the new provisions of the Bioethics Act; It is in the best interests of the child, who alone must guide us. I will quote Boris Cyrulnik to conclude: "A child never has the parents he dreams of, only children without parents have parents in dreams. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u80	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u81	There are many reasons why the group should act together to vote in favour of this bill to reform the adoption. The fine expertise of our rapporteur and her great mobilization were largely illustrated, first, by her report on the ethics of adoption, and then by this bill. It addresses a number of problems that force many people to adopt a child and aims to remove barriers to many children's access to homes that await them. To remedy this situation, which paralyses the life plans of many families, the Limon-Imbert report has set out several guidelines: better preparing families for adoption, taking into account in particular the profiles of adopted children, facilitating the adoption of children who can be adopted, if necessary in a simple form, and training the stakeholders in adoption. At the legislative level, the objectives are to facilitate and secure adoption in accordance with the interests of the child, to strengthen the status of the State ward and to improve the functioning of family councils. The Acting Together Group also welcomes the fact that agreements on certain articles have been reached with the Senate on this sensitive issue of society. We regret, however, that an agreement could not be reached by the Joint Joint Committee, which met with Rule 9a, which we have discussed extensively throughout this parliamentary shuttle. On this point, we repeat, the Action Together Group believes that giving a sonage to the second parent despite the refusal of the biological mother goes in the continuity of the parenting project and, above all, in the interests of the child. Our group welcomes the adoption of the amendments which it has proposed with the Republic Group on the occasion of the examination of the text, in a new reading, in the Committee on Laws. Indeed, we were committed to re-establishing the version of section 2, which provides for the lowering of the minimum age for a request for adoption to 26 years or a year of common life, as opposed to 28 years or two years of common life according to the Senate. This amendment was important because we know that adoption procedures are very long – on average, nine months of approval procedure and three to four years of adoption procedure. Our role as legislator is, of course, to ensure that the legal framework for adoption is as secure as possible, but not to obstruct the will of our fellow citizens without objective reason. Finally, it is important to highlight the key measure of this bill: in order to take account of developments in the family, it opens up adoption to couples bound by a pacs, or civil pact of solidarity, and to cohabitants, whereas at present only married couples and single persons can adopt. This is therefore another step forward for the majority in this mandate, and we are particularly proud of it. To create a sense of parentage, it takes more than a child in need of parents and more than parents in need of children. To feel really parenting, to feel really "the child of", there are needs to be made, meaning to be given, elements to be transmitted. It takes a lot of love, of course, but love is not enough. It also requires rigour, balance, a capacity to be true, and empathy to help a child cope with his or her fear of being born again. Let us therefore let our fellow citizens make this path. [[The rapporteur and several Members of the LaREM Group applaud]] Because it is useful, because it has been the subject of remarkable work by the rapporteur and the parliamentarians of both chambers, because it tackles the obstacles that obstruct life projects and, above all, because it is clearly in the interest of all these children who are waiting to finally integrate a family, the Group of the European People's Party will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u82	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u83	First of all, the IDU and independent group welcomes the rapporteur's work on such a sensitive issue. However, we deeply regret that the CMP on this adoption text has failed. It is a great pity that our assemblies cannot agree on such a matter. The twofold aim of this bill – to facilitate and secure the use of adoption on the one hand and to strengthen the state's Pupil status on the other – should, however, bring everyone together. Indeed, the ambitions of this text are welcome in the face of the persistent gaps in the law of adoption, despite the reform of 2016. A great disparity persists between departments, the institutional landscape is proving to be very complex, procedures are sometimes very long, placements of children can be prolonged and the adoption of so-called "special needs" children is made particularly difficult. The shortcomings of the current system result in a gap between the scope of possible and the concrete reality of what is adopted. Every year, abandoned children do not find a family, despite thousands of valid pleasures. The findings are shared, including with the Senate. This bill therefore seems to solve some practical difficulties. On the other hand, forgetfulness remains, such as the implementation of solutions for so-called "specific needs" children or the issue of post-adoption follow-up. Above all, a national adoption authority should be established, which would allow for the homogenization of practices, the guidance of administrations and the identification of approvals. This would also make it possible, by bringing together the actors, to enhance the effectiveness of the search for a family for all children who can be adopted. However, the Government seems to announce another text during a shuttle session: the texts overlap without legibility. The great novelty of this bill is that it opens up adoption to all forms of couples. As we have already pointed out at first reading by our colleague Pascal Brindeau, if we welcome this will, it must not obscure the fact that the different forms of couples do not have the same legal consequences. On the occasion of this new reading, I would like to say that our group is more in agreement with the version of the Senate. First of all, because it maintains the primary role of the bodies authorised for adoption: at this stage of the new reading, we have still not understood why you wanted to delete them. Secondly, because the Senate version removed Rule 9 bis, to which we do not adhere, because it falls within the scope of bioethics laws. For us, these two articles do not pursue the interests of the child, unlike the rest of the rapporteur's text. Beyond these points of divergence, we must all come together for the protection of children. The evolution of adoption is a modality and we therefore hope that the continuation of the parliamentary shuttle will be fruitful for our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u84	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u85	There has been great hope for this bill to reform adoption. A few years after the entry into force of the law of 14 March 2016, the legal regime for adoption, which has already made some progress, still has shortcomings that this bill intends to remedy. I will make three observations. First, we all note that the situation remains abnormal for many children and for families and applicants for adoption. Since 2007, there has been a downward trend in the number of approvals, although this decrease slowed in 2019, from 11% the previous year to 4.5%. At the end of 2019, the number of valid approvals was 10200. That same year, 3220 children were in the state ward, an increase of more than 6% compared to 2018. This increase is in line with a long growth trend, as the number of pupils has increased by 44% since 2008. At the same time, for 2019, only 690 pupils of the State reportedly left this status following an adoption judgement during the year. This figure is down 5% from the previous year, with a decrease since 2016. Secondly, we agree with many of the provisions of this text, which is in many respects a technical text, but whose human reach is strong and recurrent, and which affects the expectations of our society, children and families – expectations that are all strong. Thirdly, a number of provisions deserve, as we have mentioned in committee, further elaboration or amendments, for which the Socialist and related Group will support amendments. Two fundamental principles are advanced, to which we subscribe. This is, on the one hand, the interests of the child and, on the other, the desire to give a family to a child. Title I of the draft law aims both to enhance the value of simple adoption and to disconnect the adoption of the adopted person's marital status in order to allow adoption in the event of pacs or cohabitation. This article ends a difference in treatment between heterosexual and homosexual married and unmarried couples. This is a significant step forward. This article, symbolically important, is also important for the daily lives of families. We wonder, however, about articles 11 and 13. Article 11 bis, which redefined the international adoption regime, was deleted by the Senate. At first reading, I made it clear that the original text changed the mission of the bodies authorized for adoption and refocused their mission on intercountry adoption. The proposal amended the rules for granting authorisation to practise and these bodies would tomorrow be limited in their international missions while, until now, they could act on French territory. It seems important to me, Minister, to be able to discuss this issue in order to move the situation forward. We must retain a version of the text that preserves a human experience of accompanying adoptive families, taking into account the needs of both children and future parents. Finally, article 13 seeks to clarify the conditions for admission as a ward of the State in the event of the handover of the child by the parents to the child welfare service, distinguishing consent to admission as a ward of the State from consent to adoption. In doing so, it proposes to remove any mention of consent to adoption of parents who entrust their child to ESA, a situation that affects 10% of pupils' children. At first reading I had noted that this provision removes parental consent at the time the Family Council envisages the adoption of their child pupil from the State. The association ATD Quart Monde had pointed out that the reasons why a child becomes a pupil of the state are multiple. This quality maintains, in any case, filiation. If, as the text promotes in its original version, the parents' initial consent to pupil status is equivalent to agreement or consent to possible adoption later, the same article thus abolishing filiation, the situation becomes problematic and we have proposed amendments on this point. It should therefore be ensured that the text is both clearly and unambiguously drafted as to the lack of automaticity between agreement on the Pupil status of the State and agreement on adoption. [[The rapporteur applauds]] In view of all these advances announced and hoping that our debate will allow us to go a little further, the Socialist and Related Group will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u86	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u87	This bill seeks to correct certain gaps in positive law and to strengthen the protection of children whose best interests must be guaranteed. It provides, inter alia, for the adoption of unmarried couples whose stability and the interests of children awaiting adoption require that they be granted this right, for the adoption of children from LDCs abroad in same-sex couples despite the separation of the couple, and for the strengthening of the status of State ward and the rights of children in their adoptive families. The opening up of adoption to married or cohabiting couples is a matter of equality and coherence. Indeed, the law of 2013 opening marriage and adoption to same-sex couples had left many couples deprived of the right to build a parenting project. It was therefore necessary to correct this deficiency and allow unmarried couples to adopt. There is no valid reason why adoption should be open to married couples and single persons, but not to married or cohabiting couples. The rules governing adoption must correspond to the social reality. But the argument that marriage is a guarantee of stability can no longer prosper. Today, one marriage in two ends with a divorce and more than half of the children are born out of wedlock. It is not the legal status of a couple that guarantees their stability and, consequently, their ability to adopt. We therefore welcome the fact that the House has re-established Article 2, deleted by the Senate, which allows all couples to adopt only the consistency and ability of its members to raise a child. For adoption is above all, to use the expression of the Limon-Imbert report "a means of child protection when it corresponds to the interests of the child concerned" and not a tool for the reproduction of a cis-hetero-patriarchal family model. The re-establishment of Article 4, which provides for facilitating the full adoption of children after 15 years of age, is also a significant step forward. There is no legitimate reason to deprive a child over the age of 15 of the possibility of being adopted in plenary, especially since this option is strictly regulated by the text. However, we would like to go further in the area of adoption, considering that the possibilities of establishing a legal link establishing rights and obligations comparable to those relating to filiation must be further expanded. That is why we propose, in the public and parliamentary debate, the establishment of a new statute, social adoption, which would allow two people to establish a civil partnership between themselves, through which they can provide mutual assistance and assistance and in which the rules of direct filiation apply in matters of inheritance. For same-sex couples, the proposed law also allows a woman who has not given birth to a child from a LDC abroad to adopt that child despite the separation of the couple. Again, the Assembly re-established an essential measure of the original bill, which had been deleted by the Senate. This provision is essential because in women's couples there is a woman who has not carried the child from an LDC abroad and who cannot establish a legal relationship with the LDC if the couple separates and the surrogate mother refuses to adopt. This breakdown in the relationship between the child and the mother who conceived the parental project undermines the right to family life. It was therefore pleased that the Assembly had restored rule 9 bis. However, we regret the transitional nature of this measure. We have therefore tabled an amendment to ensure its sustainability. We also wanted to go further in the fight against LGBT-phobic discrimination in access to adoption and in the establishment of filiation. We proposed: to train the members of the accreditation commissions and all those involved in the adoption process of LGBT-phobic discrimination; extending the presumption of parenthood to married lesbian couples and the establishment of a filiation bond by the recognition of the child by the other parent; allow for the establishment of the filiation of transgender persons with respect to their children when they have made a change in the civil status of their sex. Finally, while some progress has been made in this bill on the protection of the rights of the pupils of the State, we regret that the provisions on this subject have not been incorporated into the draft law on the protection of children and that the renationalization of the competence in the field of social assistance for children, the only way to guarantee the equality of pupils before the law, has been rejected. However, we will vote on this text, hoping that the debates will continue in Parliament and in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u88	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u89	Adopt to love, adopt to transmit, adopt to fill the void of having no parents, that of not having a child, adopt to form a family simply: the reasons for adoption are multiple but, too often, adoption becomes a journey of the fighter where the desire to receive a child is undermined by a long, painful wait, marked by beautiful hopes but also great disappointments. Each year, more than 10,000 families, couples or single persons who have valid approval for adoption are waiting. They wait several years, usually more than three years. It's long, very long. This often difficult expectation must not erase the essential aspect of adoption: that of the best interests of the child. I stress this notion, which is constantly being chased away as our legal body is being drawn up as a word of too much, almost a big word. This was already the case in the discussions of the bioethics bill; This is confirmed again here. Yet a notion of wisdom that reminds us that it is not the desire of adults or parents that prevails, that the latter, however legitimate it may be, disappears, or must disappear in the interests of the child who, because he is more fragile, is superior to him. Instead of being enshrined, this principle was removed at the turn of an amendment at first reading. How can we not regret this when, as a single explanation, we are told that this principle does not exist elsewhere in the civil code, which should therefore be harmonised? It is an unfortunate choice where harmony is made from the bottom and not from the top. This is all the more regrettable since this principle is laid down in article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989, ratified by France. It is regrettable and incomprehensible, moreover, when it is known that both the Council of State and the Court of Cassation have recognized that certain articles of the Convention, including article 3, are directly applicable before the courts. How can we fail to see that your noble ambition to protect the child is unfortunately undermined when you refuse to recognize that the legal certainty provided by marriage to adopted children is essential for at least one purely legal reason: marriage allows divorce, which generates a number of very concrete rights arbitrated by a judge, or at least with the help of a lawyer, to ensure that the child, at least from a material point of view, will not lack anything. This is not the case with pacs or free union. You pretend to ignore it simply by ideology, because by disconnecting – that's the term you use – the adoption of the adopter's marital status to allow adoption, in the event of a civil pact of solidarity or cohabitation, you claim to end a difference in treatment in the face of adoption between heterosexual and gay married couples and heterosexual and homosexual unmarried couples. There is therefore a difference in treatment between adults and, once again, not a word for the child. I would like to draw your attention once again to the bodies authorized for adoption, the famous OAA that you are attacking. You are trying to amputate them from their activity in France so that they can only act as intermediaries in the event of international adoption, a bias that is completely incomprehensible when we know that all, I say well all the children entrusted to the OAA, find a family, including and perhaps especially sick or disabled children. Moreover, if you think that the number of children raised by APOs is too small, it is also because they accompany the women who arrive at home so well that many finally decide to keep their children with them. If you remove the possibility for OAAs to collect children in France, you simply prevent them from playing this role, which will break the lives of hundreds of women and children. Finally, some parents, most often pregnant women, simply do not wish to entrust their child to child welfare because they have themselves been wards of the State. They prefer to speak to an OAA because they do not want their child to know the same path as they do. For these three reasons, I find it difficult to understand your relentlessness to want to remove these organisms whose activity is framed and beneficial to all, hard work that goes so far as to give two months of suspended, only two months to the APOs before putting the key under the door. What a contempt! But because I do not want to imagine that you are guided by anything other than the good of the children, of all the children, I do not despair to make you understand at the turn of my amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u90	The general discussion is closed. I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies have not been able to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u91	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 11 and 123. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u92	I come back to the notion of the best interests of the child that I have just developed in the gallery. As I said, France's international obligations, particularly those relating to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, oblige it to incorporate the best interests of the child into national law. This concept, which guarantees the protection of the child, is enshrined by the Constitutional Council in its decision of 21 March 2019, which deduced from the tenth and eleventh preambular paragraphs of the 1946 Constitution a requirement to protect the best interests of the child requiring minors present in the national territory to enjoy the legal protection attached to their age. The deletion of the reference to the best interests of the child leads us to question ourselves. We tend to respect our obligations when they fix us, but to put them aside when they don't fix us. It seems to me that this is the case here. In the Committee on the Rights of the Child, I mentioned to you, the rapporteur, general comment No. 14 of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which dates back to 2013, which states that, in order to fulfil these obligations, States parties should take a number of implementing measures, including examining, and where necessary, amending domestic legislation and other sources of law with a view to incorporating article 3, paragraph 1, which calls for the best interests of the child to be taken into account. But in your argument you do exactly the opposite: you tell us that, as in the civil code we do not speak of the best interests of the child, we must, if I dare say, level down and thus harmonize by adopting uniformly the concept of the interests of the child and not that of the best interests of the child – which is quite the opposite of our international obligations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u93	We've got to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u94	I conclude by saying that the notion of the interests of the child is in no way equivalent to the principle of the best interests of the child, since the disappearance of the word "superior" has the effect of placing the interests of the child at the same level as that of adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u95	Mrs Ménard, you are not in the habit of exceeding your speaking time. That's why I left you another 15 seconds. I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u96	The aim of this amendment by the Republican Group is to reverse the original wording of the bill. The concept of the interests of the child is in no way equivalent to the principle of the best interests of the child, since the disappearance of the word "superior" has the effect of placing the interests of the child at the same level and thus in competition, whether desired or not, with other interests which are those of the biological parents, the applicants for adoption, the structures or families in which the children are accommodated or placed, and finally with the interests of the administration itself. Moreover, the harmonization of legislation by the so-called "lessor" is contrary to France's international commitments as well as to the Constitution. This best interests of the child are set out in article 3 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1989 and ratified by France in August 1990. We are therefore committed to this notion of the best interests of the child. That is why we want the word "superior" to reappear in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u98	By these amendments, you do want to add the term "superior" to define the interests of the child. We have already had this debate at first reading and last Wednesday in committee. I therefore reiterate the main reasons for my opposition to these amendments and to the amendments which will be defended at a later stage and which have the same purpose. First, the two expressions have the same meaning and scope; they have the same consequences and are not competing. We're talking about the best interests of the child, which is enough. Then – I anticipate here on the consideration of the forthcoming amendments to include these terms in the articles of the Civil Code – I remind you that many articles of this Code, such as that of social action and families, refer to the interests of the child. It would therefore be a source of confusion to introduce the concept of the best interests of the child in certain articles relating to adoption and not in those relating, for example, to parental authority or the right of access of third parties. We would risk creating confusion in the practice of actors in the world of children who could deduce from the diversity of terminology a hierarchy between the different provisions, depending on whether or not the law is aimed at the best interests of the child. I therefore confirm my position: it is preferable to refer to the interests of the child and it is this interest that we defend here.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u100	As the rapporteur has just pointed out, we have had lengthy debates at first reading. We all have the same goal. For the sake of consistency, without any contradiction or competition on the merits, and in particular in the civil code, the interests of the child are repeatedly targeted. This is what the various legal practitioners refer to. We remain in our position, always with the same compass. The Government is therefore opposed to these two amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u101	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u102	You are in contradiction with our international obligations by this levelling down. The deletion of the word "superior" places the interest of the child on the same level as that of the parents, be it those who leave their child for adoption or those who wish to adopt, which is contradictory to the purpose pursued by this bill. Madam rapporteur, you pointed out in committee that the original text of the Hague Convention referred to the concept of best interest. While the authors took care to add the term "best", it was true that they considered that the notion of the interests of the child alone was not sufficient. In all cases, the best interests of the child are paramount. It is out of the question to remove the term "superior" that would balance the interests of the child with the interests of adults.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u103	I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 24 and 57. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u104	The purpose of this bill is to facilitate adoption, but it appears to be directed primarily towards adopters, not adopted children. With a view to adoption, I would remind you that the Hague Convention does not recognize any other status than the traditional matrimonial regime. The initial framework of the adoption regime is that of marriage for the obvious reason that it creates stability. Article 2 disconnects adoption of the marital status of adopters to allow adoption in the context of cohabitation or pacs. It thus puts an end to a difference in treatment of adoption between heterosexual or homosexual married couples, on the one hand, and unmarried couples, on the other. According to your explanatory statement, the objective is to secure the use of adoption. However, there is no more protective status for the child than the matrimonial regime. My argument has nothing to do with moral judgment, I repeat, simply because marriage offers more guarantees when it is dissolved by divorce because the interests of the child are taken into account by lawyers and judges. No other consideration has guided this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u105	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u106	According to the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, the purpose of Article 2 is to "disconnect the adoption of the marital status of the adopter to allow adoption in the event of a civil pact of solidarity or cohabitation", which raises questions. As you know, the rapporteur, adoption is a procedure that has the primary role of protecting the child. The method of union chosen by the applicants for adoption is not insignificant in terms of stability. That is why there can be no equality between couples with different marital status. Society has a special responsibility for the children entrusted to it pending their adoption. It must guarantee them the most relevant configuration. It is therefore entirely justified that it requires applicants for adoption to enjoy a clear status, governed by a framework defined by law, in particular with regard to the dissolution of their union. The National Council for the Protection of the Child (CNPE), placed with the Prime Minister, has made reservations recalling that the rights and duties within the couple are different according to the type of union and that divorce involves a more protective regime in case of separation for the parents and therefore for the child. In the interests of the child, I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to delete Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u107	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u108	I will take the time to make a comprehensive reply to justify the committee's unfavourable opinion on the amendments which are intended not only to delete Article 2 but also its various paragraphs. Based on the desire not to open adoption to unmarried couples, they all run counter to the reform that we are defending to adapt adoption to changes in society. This requires an end to the current inequality between married couples, who may adopt, and non-married couples, whether heterosexual or homosexual, who do not have the opportunity to do so. There is now no justification for such a difference since cohabitation is no longer a marginal phenomenon. The family has evolved. One argument of consistency can also be opposed to you: how can one justify that single persons can adopt but that this right is denied to couples in cohabitation? How can we explain that unmarried couples have access to reproductive health care but that the right to adopt is denied to them? Much more than marital status, what matters is the ability of the couple to meet the needs of the child. It seems preferable to focus on the stability and maturity of the couple rather than on their marital status, in any case soluble. Parents have the same obligations to the adopted child, regardless of their marital status. These are derived from the authority of which they are vested by law and not from the kind of union which binds them. In addition, opening up adoption to unmarried couples enhances the child's safety. Currently, unmarried couples must go through individual adoption; filiation is therefore recognized only in respect of one of the two parents. Isn't it in the child's interest that it is in relation to both members of the couple? In the event of separation or, worse, if a tragedy occurs, his protection would be stronger if both parents adopted him. Finally, I would remind you that under article 373-2 of the Civil Code, the separation of parents does not affect the rules concerning the devolution of parental authority. Since the law of 4 March 2002, the law of divorce has referred to the ordinary law of parental authority on this issue. In the absence of conflict between married parents, it is therefore possible that the judge may not have to decide on this joint exercise. Conversely, separated unmarried parents have the opportunity to refer family matters to the family judge for the purpose of regulating the manner in which parental authority is exercised. If they reach an agreement, they can also regulate its terms between them without subjecting them to the approval of the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u110	Unsurprisingly, the Government is opposed to the amendments that delete article 2 as its various sub-paragraphs. It is more secure to open adoption to unmarried couples since, as the rapporteur said very well, we know that, in fact, they are using the solution of what one of the two members is adopting, which means that filiation is recognised only in respect of one of the two parents. It is wrong to say that it would be safer to limit adoption to married couples. I have nothing against marriage, of course, but we must stop with the obsession with marital status. Marriage does not in itself ensure stability and security.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u111	I never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u112	[[Smile on several on the benches of the LaREM group]] For my part, I live together and everything is fine, thank you. What matters is the dynamics within the family unit, the way in which the relationship is formed with the adopted child, as well as with the biological child – I refer you to the discussions we had at the time of the review of the bioethics bill. What matters is the interests of the child and not the marital status of his or her parents. Marriage, I insist, has no guarantee in this regard. I add that there are many heterosexual couples who are not married. This is not just about homosexuals. It is also wrong to say that it would be safer to limit adoption to married couples from a heritage and extra-patrimonial point of view, which is one of your arguments. In the event of separation, spouses, partners or cohabitants always have the opportunity to refer the case to the family judge to determine its consequences. What is happening in practice? Since the law of 2016, if a married couple wants to divorce, they can, if everything goes well, choose the consent before a notary and find an agreement with regard to the child without a judge intervening. If this goes wrong, on the other hand, divorce is done before a judge. Similarly, an unmarried couple may, in the event of disagreement, refer the matter to the family court, which will make its decision according to the interests of the child. The consequences of separation are identical for married couples and unmarried cuts, from a heritage point of view as extra-patrimonial. The rules governing the devolution of parental authority are the same. In all cases, the family judge, when determining the habitual residence of the child and the right of access and accommodation, as that is the case, must ensure that the interests of the minor are safeguarded. Similarly, the economic effects of the separation of the parent couple are identical, whether married or not. The contribution to the maintenance and education of the child is largely in the form of a maintenance payment determined by the family court judge. The protection of the child does not vary according to the marital status of the parents. I assure you on this point. Article 2 opens adoption to unmarried couples, which is a major societal advance, surrounded by all the guarantees necessary to ensure the interests of the child, who is our compass. I therefore ask you to vote against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u113	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u114	[[Secretary of State smiles]] To remove any ambiguity, I would like to make it clear that I do not claim to judge the personal suitability of the parents according to their marital status. The fact that they are married does not make them better than those who are not. And I'm glad to know you're all right, Secretary of State. Nor do I claim that married couples are more stable, I have never said such a thing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u115	I do, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u116	No! Simply, I consider that in the event of separation, there is a difference. Married couples must divorce. Of course, this no longer automatically implies going before the judge, but it leads to the compulsory involvement of a notary, in most cases a lawyer, and possibly a judge. Unmarried couples who separate may have recourse to a judge, but this is not mandatory. One parent may later realize that the protection of the child's interest should have led to a decision other than the one originally made, although everything seemed to be fine for him. And this is a real problem. On the other hand, I agree with you when you say that I should be happy that adoption is extended to other couples while it is allowed for single persons. Of course, this seems more protective but, logically, if this bill had been genuinely concerned with the interests of the child, it should have included an article aimed at eliminating the totally outdated possibility of adopting for a single person. Since it is now possible to offer two parents to all children awaiting adoption, it would be seriously unfair for some of them to continue to be adopted by a single person.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u117	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u118	Like the rapporteur, the Group of the European People's Party will only speak once on these amendments and those that follow. It seems to me that the notion of marital status leads to a profound confusion between the home – the family – and the couple. Marriage provides special protection to spouses in the event of divorce. Some measures may be considered more protective than free union and pacs, but they are for the benefit of spouses, i.e. adults. On the other hand, all children in France enjoy – and we are proud of it, I hope – the same rights, whether they come from a home where parents are married, pacsé or in a common-law relationship. Parents have the same duties for children, whether they are together or separated. As long as a parent is failing – regardless of whether he is married, divorced, pacified or in a common-law relationship – it is always possible to remind him of his responsibilities before a judge. In case of divorce by mutual consent and before a notary, Madame Ménard, when the parents agree on the conditions of custody of their child, they do not necessarily pass before a judge; So your argument is absurd. I am sorry, but it is a social progress to allow all children to enjoy the same rights, regardless of the status of their parents, and to all children waiting for their adoption in the home to be accommodated in a family, regardless of the marital status of adults. We will vote against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u119	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u120	It is intended specifically to replace paragraphs 2 to 9 with three new paragraphs designed to ensure maximum stability for the child by allowing adoption only by a couple – according to the logic you have just outlined – and not by a single person, unless the child is a family member and the adoption preserves the best interests of the child. Again, couples wishing to adopt a child are so numerous that the provision allowing single persons to adopt appears to be completely outdated and contrary to the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u122	The purpose of this amendment is to prohibit individual adoption with the exception of adoption by a parent or ally of the adopted person. However, adoptions, whether by a couple or by individuals, are always pronounced in the interests of the child after checking the ability of the adopter to provide for the needs of the child. I therefore do not see why children would be deprived of these chances of adoption. In the rest, in 2018, six out of ten plenary adopters were alone. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u124	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u125	I have before me four amendments, Nos 58, 59, 60 and 61, which can be discussed jointly. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor to support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u126	I listened carefully to your arguments, Mr. Secretary of State, and I am surprised that you did not come back to the advice of the National Council for Child Protection. It is made up of experts who work with the Prime Minister. However, the reservations I have put to you are not ours, but those of the CNPE, which is concerned on several important points. We are not going to hold a debate about such and such a way of life: everyone has every freedom to choose him or her and to choose how he or she welcomes a child. In this case, however, we are talking about one particular subject: adoption. Some adopted children are weakened by their history and need a more secure framework, more adapted to their situation. A new separation may be even harder for them. The company has a responsibility to verify that the best decisions are made and that the legal framework chosen provides the necessary guarantees. The legal framework of marriage, you say, is no more protective for the child. However, lawyers think the opposite, especially in cases of separation and in a few other situations. You maintain that this is not true, but I am just reading the reservations made by the CNPE. What do you say about these reserves? How do you respond to the important opinion of the National Council? I also support Amendment No 59, which is interesting because it aims to add the following paragraph to Article 343 of the Civil Code: "Adoption is a protective institution for the child. » Amendment No 60 is almost an appeal amendment. In the general discussion, Mr. Secretary of State, you said you wanted a fairer and more secure framework. This is a good thing, since I propose that you insert the following paragraph: "The best interests of the child are the paramount consideration in matters of adoption. National representation should be able to gather around this provision. Finally, the precise amendment No. 61 differs slightly from the previous ones, since it is intended to insert the following paragraph after paragraph 2: "The specific needs of the child are the subject of special attention on the part of the judge who pronounces the adoption. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u128	Unfavorable opinion. These amendments, which are intended to clarify in the Civil Code that adoption is a protective institution for the child, that the best interests of the child are the paramount consideration in this matter and that the specific needs of the child are the subject of special attention by the judge who pronounces the adoption, have already been defended at first reading and my view has not changed since: they are super-defeating. First point: adoption can be a child protection tool but it is not a child protection institution, as you propose to write. Adoption is the creation, by judgment, of an exclusively voluntary bond of filiation between two persons who, normally, are physiologically alien. Second, the notion of "primary consideration" is synonymous with that of "best interest", and it would be inconsistent to partially modify the codes in the sense you propose. Finally, your amendment No. 61 is already satisfied by the provisions of article 353 of the Civil Code, according to which adoption is ordered at the request of the adopter by the judicial court, which verifies whether the conditions of the law are fulfilled and whether the adoption is in the interests of the child. In cases where the adopter has descendants, the court also examines whether the adoption is not likely to jeopardize family life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u129	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u130	Same opinion. I believe that adoption is a protective institution for the child, that the best interests of the child are a primary consideration in this regard and that the specific needs of the child are the subject of special attention by the judge. These are already major principles, which guide the day-to-day activities of the adopters – whose work and commitment I welcome. I therefore propose that you withdraw these amendments, which are already largely satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u131	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u132	Having listened carefully to the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, I withdraw Amendment No 61, but I maintain the three precedents because they provide clarifications which I believe are essential, especially in the light of the questions posed by the developments that you are defending. To avoid going back to every amendment on the subject, can you, Secretary of State, respond to the reservations made by the National Council for Child Protection, an agency which is still placed with the Prime Minister and which advises the Government? We repeat his reservations, but so far, your arguments do not respond to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u133	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u134	You eventually made me doubt, Mr Bazin, but verification made, I confirm that the CNPE has issued an opinion in favour of Article 2...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u135	Favourable with reservations!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u136	Some members of the National Council were able to make reservations,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u137	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u138	... in particular with regard to the minimum age rule – 26 years – on which we will come back when we consider subsequent amendments, but with regard to the opening of adoption to unmarried couples, I think I remember, without betraying its position, that the CNPE gave a favourable opinion, considering that it was in line with the evolution of the law of filiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u139	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u140	I have the text of the CNPE in front of me: on Article 2, his opinion is "opinion with reservations". It "reserves, however, that the rights and duties within the couple are different according to the type of union and that divorce has a more protective regime in case of separation for the parents and therefore for the child". These are his exact terms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u141	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u142	The CNPE issued two opinions, the second from 2021...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u143	It's this one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u144	The Secretary of State has rewritten the opinion of the CNPE...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u145	Perhaps we can compare the texts of the opinions that we have at our disposal when we suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u146	Amendment No 16 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u147	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 124 and 135. I call Mr Philippe Meyer to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u148	The aim of this amendment by the Republican Group is to reverse the reduction in the age and length of community life adopted by the Committee. According to its explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the proposed law is to incorporate the rules of adoption into the very real evolution of society. However, the lowering of the common life and the age of the adopters is directly contrary to the evolution of society, since according to INSEE, the average age of women at their first child is constantly decreasing: from 24 years in 1974, it rose to more than 28 years. This decline is due to women's lifestyle choices, which focus on financial and professional stability, as well as couple life, before having a child. This is why the bioethics law encourages women to freeze their oocytes so that they can use them later. As for men, their average age at the first child is 31. In view of the general decline in the age of the first child, it is difficult to understand the meaning of paragraph 4, which runs counter to the evolution of society. Nor does it seem relevant to reduce the common life. The requirement of a two-year marriage term implied that the couple had been formed for a longer period of time, the decision to marry was often well thought out. On the other hand, it seems contrary to the best interests of the child to allow a couple to apply for adoption when they have only a few months of common life behind them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u149	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u150	It aims to return to the current conditions under which adopters must have two years of common life or are both over 28 years of age. It does not seem relevant to me to lower the criteria of age and common life. In the present state of the law, these conditions are not required on the day on which an application for authorisation is lodged. Taking into account a nine-month approval procedure and then a three- to four-year adoption procedure, lowering the minimum age to 26 therefore implies that persons aged 21 could be eligible for adoption. It is also sufficient, according to the text, that the common life has lasted for at least one year, even if one of the members of the couple is under 26 years of age. Adoption of a child requires that adoptive parents enjoy a stable couple's life. I recognize that the criteria of age and common life are not perfect. However, these are two objective criteria that should not be changed in order to ensure the maturity of the parenting project. I therefore propose the status quo. Let us stay under the present conditions, requiring the couple to justify two years of common life or that the two adopters are over 28 years of age. They are indeed a guarantee for the child of a family structure with the best guarantees in terms of security and stability. It seems a little light to me to decide to adopt a child after a single year of common life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u151	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u152	My answer, which I shall elaborate on, will be valid for all the amendments on the same subject. We have re-established in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure the conditions which we had set at first reading and we have, it seems to me, reached a balanced text: the condition of a common life is lowered to one year and the minimum age to adopt 26 years. I am against all the amendments aimed at changing this balance and remind you that future adopters are accompanied, during the path leading to adoption, by adoption professionals who carry out the apparent in the interests of the child. They are the ones who appreciate the strength of a couple and the maturity of a person to cope with the responsibilities arising from adoption. I'm sure we can trust professionals. In view of the length of an adoption procedure – which you have pointed out, Madam Member, and which includes, in particular, the time limit for obtaining approval and the longer period of time that is apparent – the lowering of the age requirement will allow persons of 26 years of age for whom adoption is a life project to file a dossier and then to continue their reflection, in a more concrete way, on what the adoption procedure implies. These people will begin to think and, while the procedure is being investigated, will have reached a higher age when adopting. I therefore express an opinion which is unfavourable to all the amendments which propose to return to the right balance which we have achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u153	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u154	We had already discussed this subject at the first reading of the text. At that time, I was not fully aligned with the position of the National Assembly. I had asked parliamentarians why the conditions of age and common life should be lowered: was there a particular problem that this development would solve? I said in full transparency that I was not very supportive of it, we had debated it, and you, ladies and gentlemen, decided to adopt the amendments aimed at lowering the conditions of age and common life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u155	I agreed with you, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u156	Thank you, Congressman. But beyond what is written in the texts – and that is important, because the law also has symbolic significance – what matters is what is actually happening. The rapporteur recalled this very well, with particular reference to the support provided by professionals, regardless of the age of the applicants for adoption. She also pointed out – like Mrs Ménard – that the length of the proceedings will, in concrete terms, lead to an increase in the age at which parents can actually adopt and the length of their common life than is provided for in the text. In order to be consistent with my position here and then in the Senate, I rely on the wisdom of your house, as I did on similar amendments, to decide that it is best to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u157	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u158	On such an important subject, I would like to make all of my arguments. I hear your comments, Mr. Secretary of State, on the common lifespan. You are right: adoption procedures are so long that the common life of the couple necessarily extends, since it takes three or four years, at best, for the project to succeed. On the other hand, I would like to go back to the age conditions. It is obvious that age does not underpin the maturity of the project; Some people are more mature at 23 years of age than others at 30 years of age. But you cannot deny that a higher age guarantees better economic and professional integration of adopters. The duration of studies is increasing in France. Entry into working life is now more difficult for young people than before. In this context, a draft adoption seems more difficult to carry out. However, it can be considered that from a certain age onwards, economic, social and professional integration is sufficient for a person to carry an adoption project. If I understand your arguments about the common life, I think it is important to come back to the issue of age and to consider the professional and social maturity of the applicants for adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u159	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u160	[[Smile]] Stay focused!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u161	I'm staying focused, Mr. Secretary of State. One can even stay focused for several hours on a topic as important as adoption. There are not many of us – it's a shame – but it is a matter of concern. I will return to the issue of the common life. The text is intended to be more protective, as you recalled during the general discussion. Article 2, however, eases the conditions for adopters, which seems not to me to be in line with what has been announced. Every effort must be made to prevent a child who has already experienced trauma from being confronted with a new separation. However, by reducing the common living conditions of the couple of adopters from two to one year, the text does not offer this security. You're going to ask me what's going to change with respect to the previous device. Married couples were the only ones able to adopt until then. Since most of them began to live together before their marriage, they had often lived together longer than they had been married. Together with the extension of adoption to unmarried couples, reducing the common life expectancy will have an impact that we will have to measure. At a time when couples are separating more easily than before, the guarantee of two years of common life is a minimum. I also found the opinion adopted by the CNPE office on 7 September 2021: "In view of the profile of adopted children and their need for security and a stable framework, however, the CNPE advocates maintaining the community life of two years. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u163	It is unfavorable, given everything I have said before.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u165	The Government is opposed to the extension of the common life criterion proposed by the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u166	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 63.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u167	I have not tabled any obstruction amendments aimed at deleting entire paragraphs: we must be serious. I come back only with Amendment No 63 on the question of the minimum age of the adopter, which I propose to set at 28 rather than 26 years, as the majority wishes. If age does not guarantee the maturity of the adopter, as the rapporteur pointed out, it is nevertheless an important criterion. Its lowering is likely to broaden the profile of candidates. The CNPE has also indicated that it is up to the departments, as part of the accreditation procedure, to examine the maturity of the adoption project in terms of the ability to meet the needs of the child – which is not a question of age. I wonder, therefore, whether it is appropriate to leave the text as it stands and whether we should not take account of the CNPE's reservations. In the same opinion – relatively recent, since it dates from 7 September – the latter expressed reservations and recalled that the rights and duties within the couple are different depending on the type of union and that divorce has a more protective regime, in the event of separation, for the parents and therefore for the child. You were just asking me, Mr Secretary of State, if this question had given rise to an opinion: the one I have just read had been prepared by one of the committees and adopted by the Bureau on 7 September 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u168	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 64.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u169	I propose that paragraphs 5 to 9 be deleted so that adoption is not introduced for the benefit of the applicants for adoption but for the benefit of the child and the child alone. The explanatory memorandum thus recalls "the two fundamental principles in this field, namely the best interests of the child and the desire to give a family to a child, not the other way round. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u170	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u171	Contrary to what you say in the summary statement of your amendment, it does not allow for the deletion of individual adoption but only reflects the changes made by the bill to the conditions of individual adoption. It would thus restore the minimum age for adoption to 28 years. I refer you to my previous remarks and I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u172	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u173	It is an amendment of consistency, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u174	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 65 and 167. Mr Thibault Bazin's amendment No 65 is being defended. Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 167, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u175	This amendment, proposed by Mr Breton, was co-signed by a number of us. We believe that stability and the mode of union chosen by the applicants for adoption are important elements and that the chosen lifestyle necessarily has an impact on the ability of adults to protect the child. As Mr. Bazin pointed out, adoption must respect the best interests of the child and consist of giving a family to a child. It is therefore necessary to continue to reserve adoption for married couples.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u176	Amendment No 66 by Mr Thibault Bazin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u177	Identical Amendments Nos 67 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 168 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u178	Amendment No 169 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u179	Identical amendments Nos 68 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 170 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u180	Identical amendments Nos 69 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 171 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u181	Identical amendments Nos 70 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 172 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u182	The three identical amendments Nos 20 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, 71 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 173 by Mr Xavier Breton are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u183	Identical amendments No 21 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and 174 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u184	Amendments Nos 72 and 73 by Mr Thibault Bazin are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u185	Amendment No 22 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard, which is coherent, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u186	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 74 and 175. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 74.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u187	Amendment of consistency with all those I have defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u188	Amendment No 175 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u189	Amendment No 176 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u190	Identical amendments Nos 75 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 177 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u191	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u192	Delete the concept of father and mother in the civil code, in favour of parents, echoes the law of bioethics which banned the fathers of children who will be born following an AMP carried out within a couple of women or by a woman alone. The child's interest is to be given priority by his or her father and mother, and where it is not possible, in the case of adoption, by a family unit in the same way as the one of origin. A father and a mother, biologically, correspond to different qualities according to the sex of the person. It seems to me important to stress that sexual otherness and complementarity are realities. To evacuate them is part of the logical continuation of all the debates that we have had in this House since 2013 and this clearly shows the project that you are carrying, which is not necessarily in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u194	Unfavorable opinion. The reference to parents makes it possible to take better account of adoptions carried out in homoparental families. The words in paragraph 32, which replace the words "father or mother" with the words "one of the parents", have the merit of precision and are also consistent with paragraph 2 of section 13 of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u195	The two identical Amendments Nos 76 by Mr Thibault Bazin and 179 by Mr Xavier Breton are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u196	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 77.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u197	Editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u198	I call Mr Frédéric Reiss to support Amendment No. 180, which is intended to restore Rule 2a, which has been deleted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u199	We propose that a report should take stock of the adoption by any single person over the age of 28, which would allow the national representation to have specific information on the subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u200	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u201	Unfavorable opinion. The Ministry of Justice published in 2020 a statistical study on the evolution of adoption between 2007 and 2018 that satisfies your request. In these circumstances, the restoration of this article does not seem useful to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u202	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u203	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u204	I have before me three amendments, Nos 78, 79 and 148, which may be subject to a joint debate, which tend to restore Article 3, deleted by the committee. Amendments Nos 79 and 148 are identical. Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 78 and 79, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u205	Amendment No 78 seeks to re-establish Article 3 in order to fix a maximum age difference of 45 years between the youngest of the adopters and the youngest of the adopters, with exceptions. While this text is supposed to be more protective for the child and to aim for his or her interest, it is difficult to understand that it allows his or her adoption by parents old enough to be his or her grandparents. Adoption is a long-term commitment and the adopted child should be assured, as far as possible, that he or she will have parents of the age of care for him or her for as long as possible. For its adaptation and integration, it is also necessary to avoid too much generational lag between him and his adoptive parents. That is why Amendment No 78 is intended to restore the age gap provided for in the original text between the youngest of the adopters and the youngest of the children. We discussed it at first reading. Amendment No 79 is a withdrawal amendment. It repeats exactly what was voted in the Senate, by holding between the youngest of the adopters and the youngest of the children a maximum age difference of 50 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u206	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 148.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u207	The purpose of this amendment is to restore Article 3 voted by the Senate to set a maximum age difference of 50 years between the youngest of the adopters and the youngest of the adopters, while with exceptions, to prevent several generations from separating the adopted child from its adoptive parents. This issue has been the subject of numerous exchanges in committee, particularly during the hearings. It seems to me complicated, Madam rapporteur, to pretend to have the truth about the age gap that would be most relevant. I think you have sought in good faith, like all of us, the best solution, but the one that has finally been retained does not seem satisfactory to me, first of all because it is not always applicable. It is up to the judge to assess the correct age gap according to the situation, especially since the question will arise mainly for children with special needs, whose adoption would be a shame to hinder by too strict rules. I therefore ask the question again, even if I have not been much heard so far: is it the law to set a maximum age difference? Is it not better for this issue to be settled on a case-by-case basis depending on the interests of the child?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u208	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u209	These amendments are intended to restore Article 3, the first providing for a 45-year-old age difference, the following two 50-year-olds. I am also convinced of the value of respecting a maximum age gap between the youngest of the adopters and the youngest of the children he proposes to adopt. The aim of this measure is to ensure that children have adoptive parents who are able to meet all their needs up to the age of majority. However, the discussions we have had on this subject since the first reading convinced me that it is not appropriate to set this prohibition within the general conditions for adoption in the Civil Code. That is why I tabled in committee an amendment to delete Article 3, and I supported the adoption of an amendment by the majority group to include this age difference in Article 10 on the granting of authorisation. I find this arrangement preferable in that it allows professionals to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the relevance of the age gap according to the circumstances of each adoption. Even if the age of the future adopted is not yet known at the time of the granting of the authorisation, setting this criterion in the Code of Social Action and Families will guide the work of professionals and lead to the subject of the age gap being addressed at the very beginning of the adoption process. This discussion will have the virtue of advancing the reflection of adopters on the reality of adoption. I am therefore against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u210	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u211	I agree with the reasons which are brilliantly set out by the rapporteur. We all have the same objective: to ensure that adoption candidates will be able to meet the needs of the child in the long term. However, the multi-stage procedure was found to be preferable for this age difference rule to apply at the time of approval. This will be an opportunity for professionals, social workers, to discuss this issue with parents, as part of the definition of the adoption project. The principle is that of the maximum age difference, but while you are proposing that this rule should apply at the time of the application for adoption before the judge, we consider that the accreditation stage is the right time to apply it, on the understanding that it will always be possible for professionals to derogate from it, if they consider it to be in the best interests of the child in terms of the candidate's profile.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u212	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u213	You refer us to Article 10, but we do not know what its fate will be, in particular that of its paragraph 5, introduced by the committee, which is intended to further relax the rules on the maximum age gap and to link them with the approval of adoption. The wording that you propose to derogate from it means that the gap can be greater than 50 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u214	In the child's best interests!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u215	If this article is not restored, everything will ultimately depend on accreditation, which is quite random and offers much more latitude. For us, as for all those working on adoption, this is a real question: should we or should we not accept an even greater gap than 50 years? Fifty years is still not nothing, especially if the decision comes at the time of approval. As adoption does not take place immediately after approval, the applicant for adoption will be even older at the time of adoption. In case of derogation, the gap will be even greater.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u216	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 80.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u217	Article 4 seeks to broaden the grounds for derogation from the prohibition of a full adoption of a child over the age of 15. This proposal, which was not included in the adoption report published by the rapporteur and her colleague Senator Corinne Imbert, concerns a very small number of adoptions and is not the subject of consensus. One can also wonder about the interest for the child who reached the threshold of his majority, or even beyond, to see his original filiation, with which he built himself during his childhood, purely and simply erased. If the new wording proposed in the committee does not take the "serious reason" introduced in the National Assembly as an exception, the other derogations proposed are also not without difficulties. It is therefore appropriate to revert to the principle of the prohibition of full adoption beyond the age of 15, which already has exceptions. After this age and a fortiori at 20 or 21, simple adoption seems more appropriate than plenary adoption. That is why this amendment proposes to remain in force by deleting Article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u218	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u219	In some cases, the full adoption of a child over the age of 15 can be justified...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u220	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u221	... and it would be a shame to prevent it by virtue of a principle of prohibition that is too general, especially since the situation will be examined on a case-by-case basis. That is why we have added three possible exceptions to this principle. They concern the adoption of the spouse's child, the pupils of the State and children declared to be judicially neglected. However, as you have mentioned, we have better lined up the scheme by removing the derogation linked to the "serious reason" which was adopted at first reading in the National Assembly, in order to take into account the criticism of the insufficient legal precision of these terms. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u223	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u224	The rapporteur's amendment No 231 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u225	Mr Frédéric Reiss, in support of Amendment No. 181, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u226	Article 351 of the Civil Code states that "The placement for adoption shall be effected by the effective surrender to the prospective adopters of a child". This concept is unambiguous in law and includes the investment decision. The proposed wording in paragraph 4 of this article, which uses the phrase "takes effect on the date of", may give rise to discussion in the case law. That is why this amendment proposes to delete paragraph 4, which is neither justified nor appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u227	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u228	Paragraph 4, which you wish to delete, is intended to clarify the current wording of article 351 of the Civil Code with regard to the effective date of commencement of the placement, stating that the placement "takes effect on the date on which the child is actually handed over to the prospective adopters". This wording was suggested by the judges of the Court of Cassation during their hearing before the Senate. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u229	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u230	We come to article 5, paragraph 7. We have the impression that the very interesting work done by the Senate has been swept away – I am thinking in particular of the amendments adopted on the initiative of Muriel Jourda. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to re-establish the wording proposed by the Senate. During the period of placement for full adoption, future adopters are not vested with parental authority. Nevertheless, they take care of the child on a daily basis and it is necessary for them to be able to carry out the usual acts of parental authority. Article 5 therefore seeks to clarify this legal situation, which is a good thing, I grant you. However, this amendment suggests aligning the wording of paragraph 7 with similar provisions of the Civil Code, including those of Article 373-4, by specifying that future adopters perform all the usual acts relating to the supervision and upbringing of the child – that is the semantics used – and not, as proposed, that they can carry out "the usual acts of parental authority in relation to the person of the child", which we believe is too broad. In addition, the deletion of the word "power" should remove any ambiguity as to the capacity of future adopters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u232	Your amendment proposes to go back to the amendment that we have introduced in committee in order to better identify the usual acts that can be carried out by future adopters during the placement period. I recall that during this period, as you pointed out, future adopters are not yet given parental authority. It is essential, however, that they be able to carry out the usual acts related to the child, including those relating to the child's health and not only those relating to his supervision and education as you wish. The wording you suggest seems too restrictive to me. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u234	Unfavorable notice for the same reasons. I have had these discussions with your honourable senators. If we retain the wording that they had adopted – I had expressed my deep disagreement vehemently – all the usual acts of child health would be excluded: thus, a non-emergency operation could not be decided by the future adopters. I am not sure that making the law more complex and limiting it solely to acts relating to the supervision and upbringing of the child, excluding all others, including those related to his or her health, is in the best interests of the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u235	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u236	I'm not convinced by your interpretation. In the event of an emergency for the health of the child, there would be no difficulty in making decisions in his or her interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u237	In emergency cases, but outside of them?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u238	We can always find solutions. The aim of this amendment is therefore to erase the too broad interpretation induced by the word "can". More generally, as far as I know, the Joint Joint Committee was not far from reaching an agreement and several advances from the Senate had been welcomed. But you swept them all away in committee, not keeping any input from the Senate. My various amendments give you an opportunity to debate them and perhaps to take up the provisions which you welcomed in the Joint Joint Committee. Or this means that whenever a joint joint committee fails, the improvements proposed by the Senate will be systematically rejected. This is a pity, because it is precisely in the interest of the shuttle to resume positive developments. We are trying to be constructive; Be it, too.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u239	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 82 and 182. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 82.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u240	In its wisdom, the Senate has removed section 7 of the bill, which you were opposed to. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that the subject of adoption would have deserved to be the subject of a bill, which would have led to the advice of the Council of State. Article 7 seeks to move provisions on consent applicable in the event of a conflict of laws and intercountry adoption to be included in the section on the conditions for the collection of consent in French law. However, this amendment poses legal difficulties. First of all, the consent given in France to an adoption is governed by the general principles of law, in particular that of the unavailability of the status of persons, as well as by the provisions of ordinary law relating to consent. The nullity of consent is already a ground for refusing to grant an adoption. Finally, the play of cross-references between articles of the Civil Code would lead, for intercountry adoption, to require the countries of origin to obtain consent to adoption according to the conditions of formalism required in France, which would exclude many countries that did not respond to them. I'm not sure you're measuring the consequences of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u241	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 182.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u242	In addition to what Mr Bazin has just said, I should like to add that it is imperative to leave the two articles of the Civil Code as they stand, one of which is proposed to be amended and the other to be repealed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u244	We have reinstated Article 7 because it seems to us useful to provide that the definition of consent to adoption applies to all adoptions, both domestic and international. To this end, the provisions relating to the conditions of validity of consent, currently included in article 370-3 of the Civil Code, which falls under the chapter on conflicts of laws in matters of adoptive filiation, are transferred to article 348-3 on consent to adoption. I would point out, however, that the conditions are well maintained in the context of intercountry adoption, since we state in article 370-3 of the Civil Code that the consent of the legal representative of the child given in respect of intercountry adoption is in accordance with the conditions laid down in the first paragraph of article 348-3. You are concerned, Mr. Bazin, about the application for international adoptions of the formalism of the collection of consent in the context of national adoption. I can reassure you: the scheme does not provide for this, since only the conditions laid down in the first paragraph of Article 348-3 will apply in the context of intercountry adoption. This applies only to the qualities of consent and not to the modalities of its compilation provided for in the second paragraph. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u245	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u246	Same opinion for the same reasons as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u247	Amendments Nos 183 by Mr Xavier Breton and 46 by Mrs Marietta Karamanli are being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u248	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u249	This Article concerns the consent of the adopted person when he or she is unable to consent personally to his or her adoption in plenary. In order to meet your objectives and ambitions, Secretary of State, it seems to me that the notion of the best interests of the child should be added. Indeed, the relevant criterion in article 21 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child refers to the "best interests of the child" and not only to the "interest of the child". In fact, the rapporteur, I have still not understood since our debates at first reading why you do not want to mention the 'best' interests of the child, moreover in terms of adoption! – there might be other interests, let's not hide it. In order for legislation to be more consistent, the criterion must be the same in all legislation relating to adoption: the best interests of the child, I repeat. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u250	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 83.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u251	I know that we need to go fast, but I would have wished you more prolixes about an amendment as important as the previous one, which invoked the best interests of the child: why do you refuse the term "superior"? This amendment is just as important: it is intended to go back to the mechanism adopted by the Senate that allows the legal representative to play his or her role, rather than to involve an ad hoc administrator.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u252	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u253	The substitution of the opinion of an ad hoc administrator with that of the legal representative is important in two respects: first, it avoids the cumulation of the consent of the legal representative – compulsory for the adoption of his minor child – with the opinion of that person; Second, it offers an additional guarantee, as it allows a person outside the project to decide whether the adoption is in the best interests of the child. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u254	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u255	As the interests may be opposed, the intervention of a third party, an ad hoc administrator, offers an additional guarantee of protection of the child. I propose, therefore, not to retain the drafting of the Senate. Returning to Article 5, note that I am not a member of the Joint Joint Committee, Mr Bazin; So I couldn't pay tribute to his progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u256	I wasn't there either!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u257	However, we have retained the wording of section 5 proposed by the Senate, according to which future adopters "carry out" – and not "can do" – the usual acts relating to the supervision and education of the child. Your amendment would have contravened that wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u258	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u259	You come back to a debate that has passed, Secretary of State: this is proof that we are moving too fast! I think I have a solution to remove your concern about a possible opposition of interests: you could ask for a second debate on the previous amendment; We would add a reference to the best interests of the child, which would reassure you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u260	Amendments Nos 47 and 48 by Mrs Marietta Karamanli are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u261	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 184 and 185, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u262	They have a similar object, the second being an amendment of withdrawal from the first. The amendment of Article 357 of the Civil Code that you propose being placed at the end of Article 9, after the provisions relating to the first name, it is impossible to know whether it relates only to the first name, or to the first name and last name. In the light of article 363 of the Civil Code, however, it can be assumed that it concerns the first name and the last name. The real question is whether it is in the best interests of a teenager to decide whether or not to bear the name of his or her adoptive parent(s). At an age when one can be destabilized and fragile, the refusal to bear the names of its adoptive parents could be interpreted as the refusal of the adoption itself. Since the adoption process must contribute to attachment and anchoring in a new family, it would seem inconsistent to leave this important decision to the adolescent. A child is not consulted when he or she changes his or her name during the course of his or her minority. Why would he be in case of adoption? The name depends on the filiation established in law, which determines the civil status of the person; Without exception, it is not a matter of individual will. This must be particularly important in a plenary adoption. Article 9 should therefore be deleted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u263	I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 85, which is substantially the same as the previous one.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u264	It is certainly similar, but I would like to make arguments complementary to those of Mr Reiss. Article 9 provides for the consent of children over 13 years of age, adopted in simple form, to the addition of the name of their adopter. Allowing the child to refuse this addition would be tantamount to denying his new filiation – this possibility is far from consensus, especially since the common law of article 61-3 of the Civil Code requires the consent of the child, at the same age, only if the change of name "does not result from the establishment or modification of a bond of filiation". My amendment therefore seeks to maintain the law in force under section 363 of the Civil Code, as provided for in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u265	What is the committee's opinion on these three amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u266	Article 9 has no legal ambiguities, Mr. Reiss. Thus, its paragraph 2 supplements the last paragraph of article 357 of the Civil Code, which deals with the change of first name: this paragraph of the bill therefore relates to the first name. Paragraph 3 amends article 363 of the Civil Code, which deals exclusively with the addition of the name: only the name is referred to, without any possible confusion. Furthermore, it is false to say that a child over the age of 13 does not have to consent to his or her change of name when his or her parents have themselves changed their name on the basis of article 61 of the Civil Code; It is even explicitly provided for in Article 61-3 of the same Code. Finally, taking into account the child's speech seems to me to be a minimum requirement for such an important decision. Furthermore, Mr. Bazin, allowing the child to refuse the addition of his new name is not tantamount to denying his new filiation. There is no reason to fear a child's refusal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u267	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u268	On the contrary, it is essential to have this debate with him to understand his reluctance. This is an opportunity to talk again about its adoption conditions. I therefore express an unfavourable opinion on Amendments Nos 184, 185 and 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u269	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u270	I am also against it, first of all for the sake of legal and procedural coherence. Indeed, the consent of minors over 13 years of age is required in the procedures for changing their name by decree – articles 61 et seq. of the Civil Code – and by joint declaration of change of name – article 311-23 of the Civil Code – as well as in the procedures for changing their first name – article 60 of the Civil Code. Another major principle leads me to express an unfavorable opinion: the consideration of the child's words.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u271	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u272	For the past three years, we have been making it a guiding principle of our child protection policy. Since our country has, so far, had a very patrimonial conception of the child – I assume this term – it is important that we give the child its full place: the child must be a real subject of law whose words we listen to.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u273	I believe a lot in the family!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u274	I also have a lot of faith in the family, and I have a lot of faith in the child. I also believe that our society must evolve. A somewhat familiar design has long been awarded, placing the child in an object position – it goes back a long way. It is high time that the child was recognized as a real subject of law – this has been the case for several years, notably thanks to the child protection laws defended by some of your colleagues. We must therefore listen and take his word into account in an effective way. It is important that the child's word be heard, from the age of 13, concerning his or her change of first name or the addition of the name of his or her adoptive parents. It is a lure to believe that the difficulties that may arise – and I do not deny – between a child and his or her adoptive family will be solved by imposing the addition of the name of the child. It is not by imposing decisions that these problems are addressed, but rather by dialogue and accompaniment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u275	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u276	You're sending us back two or three centuries, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u277	Unfortunately...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u278	We never considered the child to be a subject of law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u279	In that case, take his word into account!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u280	We have no intention of denying his word. We simply observe that the provisions of article 9 do not reach consensus. The rapporteur took the assumption of consent from the child, but the child may not consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u281	The rapporteur said so too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u282	If the child does not consent to the change of name, it must be discussed with him, the rapporteur explained. I'm trying to understand the implications. The adoption process raises highly sensitive issues, which are not confined to the adoption project; It's also about filiation. Since the provisions of article 9 did not generate consensus among experts, it was important to discuss them and to study all the hypotheses: some children would give their consent, others would not. In case of refusal, what will happen?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u283	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-17-O1127.u284	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the re-reading of the adoption bill. The meeting is adjourned.
