ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposals for an organic (No 4495, 4924) and ordinary (No 4496, 4925) law on the financing of social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u2	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u3	We are gathered to respond to the challenges of social finance governance by reviewing the proposed organic law and the proposed ordinary law on social security financing laws (LFSS). These two texts, presented by the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, Thomas Mesnier, propose that you take a further step in the gradual apprehension of Parliament's relatively new field of social finance: this is an essential task for your House. The proposals before you are also, and above all, in a very specific context for public finances in general and for social finances in particular. These are more topical than ever since the financial trajectory of the LFSS that you voted for at the end of last year, only a few days ago, shows a social security deficit that could still exceed 20 billion euros in 2022. We must not be ashamed of this deficit because it is the symptom of the unprecedented effort made by social security to protect us all in this major crisis, thanks to our health system but also to the safety net it represents. It is also the result of the abrupt drop-out of activity in 2020. While growth is returning very strongly, demonstrating the relevance of the Government's action, it will unfortunately not be enough to completely eliminate the lasting effects of the decline in activity in 2020. Social security is certainly a huge insurance machine but this machine is not composed of abstract accounting lines: it is intimately linked to the life of the French and to the collective trials they are going through. In saying this, no one ignores or disputes the fact that we will have to restore the balance of accounts, because that is also the strength of social security, but, agree, it would not be credible, and it would even be counterproductive, to purge out of crisis. A lasting response is needed to this situation: to this end, a major reform of the LFSS provides a basis for the reconstruction of a more secure, solid and effective social security system. To do this, Thomas Mesnier's proposal for an organic law makes an ambitious amendment. I will not go back to what you voted on at first reading. As you know, the text you have already discussed includes many advances in Parliament's information and in the quality of the debates. As you also know, the Senate has introduced several provisions against the Government's opinion, which appeared to us to be difficult to implement or counterproductive. The text that you amended in committee seems to me to be more balanced and more capable of achieving the initial objectives of improving the management and monitoring of social accounts. In relation to the original text, the version before you adds, in particular, a notice mechanism for exceeding the borrowing ceilings, a clarification of the format of the annexed data or the introduction of a quarterly report to Parliament when the general conditions of financial balance are called into question. An annex will also allow for better monitoring of the accounting records of health facilities, on the understanding that such information will necessarily be provided at a sufficiently aggregated level to be usable. Finally, the rapporteur will propose, by way of an amendment, that Parliament's information be further strengthened when the appropriations to the agencies have to be substantially increased during the financial year, as may have been the case for Public Health France (SPF). [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I hope that your vote and the constructive exchanges between the two assemblies will lead to a consensus version of the text that can be adopted quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u4	Mr Thomas Mesnier, rapporteur of the Special Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u5	Few are the moments, as we know only too well, when we can take the time to reflect on our parliamentary practice. Even rarer are those where we can have the chance to change the conditions under which we democratically examine the nation's social budget. André Fanton, the rapporteur of the first Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws, passed in 1996, wanted "to put an end to the silence of Parliament". It must be noted that after a second organic reform in 2005 and twenty-five years of practice, Parliament now expresses itself in depth every autumn on social finances. The examination of social security financing bills (PLFSS) provides an opportunity to democratically discuss more than 600 billion euros of expenditure, the largest public policy effort in our nation. Its practitioners, whom I see gathered on the various benches of the Chamber, know its value, the diversity of topics it allows to be addressed, whether it be the health of our citizens, their families, their independence and, more generally, the protection of all social risks. This unique text, this vision of how the nation affects our social security and how we choose to distribute it, is an indispensable democratic achievement. I know that there is sometimes the temptation to bring together funding laws and state finance laws, particularly in relation to revenue discussions. I think that would be a terrible mistake, for at least three reasons. First of all, this would not make sense, given the maintenance of a corrective part of the current year within the funding laws, which would result in the text being divided into incoherent parts. Secondly, the readability of the debates would not be greater, since experience shows that the vast majority of the revenue measures discussed in the financing law have a direct impact in the field of social security alone. Finally, it would not even save parliamentary time, if that is what the promoters of this idea are looking for, since the funding law is regularly reviewed as a whole in a time-consuming manner, as we know only too well. On the other hand, a common debate would only have the effect of delaying the examination of social security revenues at the end of the debate, reducing the quality of the democratic control we exercise over them. The financing law is now well placed at the intersection of parliamentary and social democracies. But if Parliament is no longer silent, does it have the means to be heard? My experience as a parliamentarian, and then as rapporteur-general for two years, has allowed me to focus on this exercise, but also to see its limitations. That is the whole meaning and ambition of the organic bill that I tabled more than six months ago at the office of our assembly. Based on many thoughts shared by the High Council for the Financing of Social Protection (HCFIPS), the Court of Auditors and our Senate counterparts, this text must allow Parliament time, information and means to speak with a strong voice. As far as time is concerned, first of all, the organic law that I am proposing will remove one of the main constraints, if not on our right of amendment, at least on its implementation: the funding bill will be tabled no longer on 15 October as at present, but on the first Tuesday in October. This week won will be for the benefit of the whole House, I sincerely believe. The first part of the financing laws, which has now been abandoned, must be said to become tomorrow's law approving social security accounts. Considered in June, it will be the culmination of what our majority introduced during this legislature, the Social Spring of Evaluation. There is no doubt that, in addition to reviewing the closed accounts, this will be an opportunity to take stock every year of the implementation of the financing laws and will feed into the reflections for the autumn, within the framework of a virtuous and complete budgetary circle. With regard to the information, the financing law of the year, as well as the law approving accounts, will be accompanied by renovated, modernised and expanded documents. Renovated documents: The annexes will include in-depth information on topics such as the National Health Insurance Expenditure Objective (ONDAM) or exemptions from social contributions and contributions, which will be evaluated for each of them every three years. This is an essential prerequisite for improving the quality of our annual revenue debate. Modernised documents, then: in line with the law on the modernization of public finances, we have foreseen that the data from the annexes can be provided in an open and reusable electronic format, giving all parliamentarians the opportunity to assess on their own the changes in social finances. Expanded documents, last but not least: new annexes will complement those already available, in order to give our assembly all the information on the development of social protection. We will thus be informed of the financial situation of health institutions, their debt path, as well as of the forecast and executed accounts of supplementary pension and unemployment insurance schemes. Some amendments provide for these schemes to be included in the scope of funding legislation. In spite of their many similarities with the basic social security schemes, it seems to me premature to commit to this in the light of the positions of the social partners. If it is not silent, Parliament will remain blind if it does not have information on social protection sections that concern millions of our citizens. With regard to means, I am particularly proud that this text translates into a strengthening of the links between parliamentary democracy and social democracy. The opinions of the social security funds will no longer be given to the Government on the draft law but to the Parliament on the bill tabled. The caisses will have 15 days to let us know the content of their opinions, which will contribute to a significant improvement in the quality of our debates. This text is also that of an adult democracy, which is aware that we cannot resign ourselves to abandon the objective of balancing social accounts, which was at the heart of the ambition of the financing laws at the time of their creation by the constituent in 1996. Beyond our disagreements, I want to avoid two pitfalls, two contradictory positions and equally damaging each other. The first is to consider that social protection would be a barrel of the Danaides, a well without funds in which it would be possible, without any consequence, to maintain immoderate deficits without examining the effectiveness of the expenditure to which all our fellow citizens contribute. Regardless of our differences, I believe that no one can reasonably hold such a line of reasoning without, in the long run, threatening the very existence of social protection. The second position, which underlies certain amendments, would be to provide for a return to balance as quickly as possible, without taking into account the meritorious and perfectly justified efforts made by social finances during the health crisis. Reestablishing balance, yes; to the detriment of our health care system or the strength of our economy, no. That is why this text takes a middle position. While continuing to steer social security through the balances, as is its raison d'être, the counter to the expenditure gaps we adopted at first reading is an additional guarantee of responsibility and credibility. It is not a rule of austerity: every government, every majority will be free to commit themselves, at the beginning of the legislature, to the path of expenditure that it wishes. But Parliament, and therefore the citizens, will be able to ask for an account if the trajectory is not maintained, and will require the government in place to provide justifications or even make corrections. It is in this same spirit that I have proposed a three-year rule to limit the duration of exemptions from social contributions and contributions. Only financing laws will be able to create permanent exemptions, or to sustain recently created exemptions, provided that they have proven to be effective. This rule, which applies to both parliamentarians and the Government, is a real legal innovation. The role of financing laws in the field of social finance is at stake: this is the time when the level of revenue that we want to allocate to social protection can be determined with precision and sincerity. There is no justification for examining the effectiveness of social contribution exemptions with greater magnanimity than that of expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said in the preamble, there are few opportunities to renovate the social protection architecture. An organic law not only engages our final legislature but also the future legislatures, until the book is handed over to the profession. That is why, despite the profound political differences that have caused the Joint Joint Committee (JC) to fail with the Senate, I have proposed in committee that we move towards a common position. It is in this sense that I have recommended taking over the provisions of the Senate relating to the Court of Auditors and have arranged the procedure for the opinions of the social affairs committees on the decrees for raising the debt ceilings of the Central Agency of Social Security Agencies (ACOSS), now known as the USSRAF Caisse Nationale. It is in this sense that I have taken up the proposal to request the Government, in the event of a challenge to the general conditions of financial balance set out by the LFSS, to immediately table a report to Parliament to explain the reasons for this. It is in this sense, finally, that I will propose an amendment aimed at improving Parliament's information if the allocation paid to a fund or agency goes unreasonably beyond the amount set out in the annex to the Social Security Financing Acts of the year. I invite the Senate – I am confident, after my last discussions with the Senate rapporteur, Jean-Marie Vanlerenberghe, that he will consent to this – to adopt this bill in the same terms as we are going to approve it today. Parliament as a whole has thus defined the conditions under which it wishes to examine and write down the future of social security for the years to come. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] Colleagues, I call on you to adopt these proposals for an organic and ordinary law on the laws to finance social security and thus fulfil Pierre Laroque's wish to "develop our political democracy into a true social democracy".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u6	In the general debate, Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u7	By voting annually on the State budget and the social security budget, Parliament fulfils its original mission. The examination of these budgets is indeed a fundamental democratic exercise. The Liberties and Territories Group regrets that agreement could not be reached with the Senate on the texts that we are about to review again. This failure contrasts with the agreement reached for the other two bills examined by the Special Commission, which dealt with the conditions for the review of financial laws. Let me come back to one of the points of disagreement with senators: the extension, desired by the Senate, of the social security financing laws to the unemployment insurance scheme. The question may be relevant, but we cannot so abruptly contravene the prerogatives of the social partners and the parity of UNEDIC. Partitarianism, which is the foundation of our social security system, has experienced several attacks since 2017. Thus, the recent reform of unemployment insurance has taken place without the agreement of the social partners and even in spite of their strong opposition. We regret that respect for paritarianism does not prevail on every occasion. At first reading, our group adopted more consensual amendments concerning the information provided to Parliament on the unemployment insurance scheme and supplementary schemes. These are, after all, compulsory schemes that contribute to our social protection. It was therefore legitimate to ask for better information from Parliament about them. This information is crucial, I insist. The proposed legislation will allow improvements in this regard, through the creation of an introductory article in the PLFSS or the grooming of the annexes. On this point, the Senate has enriched the scheme by providing for the obligation of the Government to table a report with Parliament in the event of a challenge to the financial balance of social security. These elements seem secondary, but they are essential because the information informs the action. Let us acknowledge that Parliament's powers have been greatly weakened in recent years – we have repeatedly said so. How many times have we deplored the conditions for reviewing bills, particularly the Social Security Financing Bill? Constitutional deadlines do not justify everything. We have had to complain regularly about the very late tabling of the text, though substantial, which sometimes forced us to audition the ministers on the basis of documents and information that we did not have! Parliament should be empowered to carry out its monitoring work. The bill will improve the monitoring and follow-up of the measures we vote annually through the creation of a law approving social security accounts. Let us not make it an unnecessary exercise, which would be to approve simple tables of balance: the consideration of the bill approving the social security accounts must, on the contrary, give rise to a real moment of analysis and debate. In advancing the date for the tabling of the PLFSS, we are also giving Parliament the means to fulfil its role as legislator under better conditions. Control will be all the more relevant as the use of amending LFSS will be facilitated. The health crisis, which blew up deficits in social accounts and lied about budget forecasts, reminded us of the usefulness of such tools. Mr rapporteur, you have proposed, in a special committee, that certain ideas of the Senate, such as the regulation of orders for raising the debt ceilings of ACOSS, should be taken up. We are of course in favour of this provision. We regret, on the other hand, that our proposal to introduce a periodic and systematic review of exemptions from social security contributions has not been successful. These exemptions, like regular derogations from the principle of State compensation, weaken the sustainability of our social protection system. Colleagues, these two bills alone will not be enough to restore Parliament's powers, but they will contribute at least a little, at least we hope. As at first reading, the Libertés et Territoires Group will therefore support them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u8	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u9	Over the past 40 years, the governance of social security has changed significantly. This development has been characterized by the gradual erasure of workers' representatives in the administration of the funds and the strengthening of State control. The creation of the generalised social contribution (CSG) in 1991 strengthened the taxing of revenues and called into question the contribution as the basis for the financing of social security. The 1996 reforms, which these texts are amending, marked a further step in this development with the creation of the social security financing laws, which were put to Parliament's vote, and the introduction of ONDAM, which results in a systematic reduction of hospital spending, which we are currently paying the price for. Finally, let us add the creation of a fifth branch, dedicated to autonomy, in 2020, entirely financed by tax, through the CSG. These successive reforms, to which Communist MEPs opposed each other, have gradually called into question the autonomy of social security and strengthened the state's control over social accounts. The two texts we are examining today, which concern the organisation of parliamentary debates on social security financing laws, do not go back to these developments: at best they are content with technical adjustments, at worst they reinforce the logics I have just described – the rampant state of social security and the increased control of public spending. However, we agree with you that the debate on the social security budget, which takes place every autumn, is not satisfactory. Closed in a very strict procedure and constitutional deadlines, the examination of the text makes little room for parliamentary initiatives. Thus, we cannot be satisfied with the late submission by the Government of the PLFSS on the Bureau of the National Assembly, which leaves only three days to study and amend the text. We also deplore the rules on the admissibility of amendments, which punish social riders and prevent them from acting on the level of social expenditure, which remains the reserved area of the Government. On these points, the proposed organic law provides for some positive simplification measures, including the progress of the tabling schedule for the PLFSS on the first Tuesday in October, which will give MPs an additional week to read the bill. Similarly, the opinions of the social security funds on the PLFSS will be forwarded directly to Parliament and no longer to the Government. For the rest, the provisions contained in this text appear to be dangerous or of no real use to public debate. We are cautious about the creation of a law approving the social security accounts, which would be debated every year in June. Based on the review of the Budget and Account Approval Bill, we doubt the real contribution of this evaluation debate, during which parliamentarians will simply vote on balance tables, without the possibility of amending the text. Parliament cannot be content to be spectators on the pretext that we are pretending to strengthen our missions. More importantly, following an amendment adopted at first reading, you plan to extend the scope of social security financing laws to include information on supplementary pension accounts and unemployment insurance accounts. By including, even partially, these schemes in the scope of the LFSS, you are once again attacking the prerogatives of the social partners, a few months after imposing a reform of unemployment insurance on which they have not had their say. Finally, we are opposed to the provisions concerning the strengthening of the financial scoping of social expenditure, whether it concerns the alignment of the budget path of the PLFSS with that defined in the law on the programming of public finances or the introduction of a counter to the differences between the forecast social expenditure and the expenditure actually incurred. This latter measure will only reinforce the logic of adjustment by spending on the social security budget, which has been used for years to justify cuts in health and pension expenditure. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against the bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u10	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u11	After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, we are meeting today to re-examine the two draft laws relating to the financing of social security. These texts contain real political progress, both for parliamentarians and for our fellow citizens. First, they provide Parliament with more powers by strengthening its monitoring capacity and improving the annual review of the social security budget. We have already made progress on the subject by introducing, as early as 2019, the Social Spring of Evaluation, which we can be proud of, but this organic law proposal goes further by creating a law approving social security accounts. It is a real innovation in the parliamentary review of social finances: it will present the data for the last financial year closed and will be reviewed annually in June. I would like to make it clear that we wish to retain the introductory section included in the bill approving the social security accounts by senators. Secondly, these texts improve the readability of social security accounts, thus providing parliamentarians and our fellow citizens with information and understanding of these funds. The subject, however, is of particular importance, especially at the political level, after the health crisis. Better visibility of the financial trajectory of the social security accounts is paramount: this is the whole purpose of the legislative proposals. The Senate has greatly enriched these texts, which I would like to emphasize, even though the CMP has not been able to agree on certain matters. As regards the scope of the social security financing laws, the group The Republic on the move considers that its extension to unemployment insurance is hastened. On the other hand, we are convinced that it is necessary to include hospital debt within the scope of the social security financing laws, in order to take account of the provisions adopted in the last two PLFSS and to ensure their legal security. Nor do we consider the honourable senators' proposal to establish a golden rule to ensure the medium-term financial balance of social security accounts to be relevant. We have therefore decided to vote in favour of its abolition in a special committee. First of all, the application of such a rule is not realistic under the current conditions, but it would be, above all, far too restrictive and would prevent social security financing bills from meeting the challenges of the moment, especially in the case of a crisis like the one we have just been through. However, many provisions added by senators have been debated and maintained in the texts. This is the case with the one aimed at strengthening Parliament's control over the procedure for raising the ACOSS overdraft ceiling in the event of an emergency – a regime that we have set up in a special committee – and the one which strengthens Parliament's information in the course of implementing the LFSS in the event of a disruption of the financial balance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These two bills are the result of a long work by our rapporteur, Thomas Mesnier, and are, in their present version, balanced and pragmatic texts that should be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u12	[[Smile]] Mr Jean-Pierre Door, who has been following these questions for a long time and who knows them well, has the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u13	In its report on the review of social security financing laws, HCFIPS considered it necessary to strengthen the strategic dimension of these laws and to recognize, finally, the role of prevention in the management of social spending. The purpose of this proposal for an organic law on LFSS is to amend its content by creating a law approving social security accounts and amending the annexes and timetable of the PLFSS. As for the proposal for an ordinary law, it merely seeks, according to the author, "to draw the consequences of the provisions of the proposed organic law". At first reading, the National Assembly made amendments aimed at focusing the scope of the introductory article of the Social Security Financing Acts of the year on the last financial year ended, on the current fiscal year and on the coming year. It clarified the scope of the extension of LFSS to the debt of health and medical-social institutions. It has created new annexes to the financing law of the year, which will inform Parliament on the financial situation of the unemployment and supplementary pension schemes for the last financial year closed, for the current year and for the coming year. "We do not have a comprehensive vision of social protection funding. On this point, I agree with Thomas Mesnier. Unfortunately, however, as I noted at first reading, the proposed amendments are lacking in scope, both in terms of information and in terms of the control of social finances. These are only technical adaptations of the financing laws, while social security is experiencing the worst deficit in its history, the main deficit of which is based on the disease branch. Although some consensus has been reached, the Joint Joint Committee has failed. It is regrettable that the practice that the definition or revision of the organizational framework of social security finance and financing laws has always been the subject of an agreement between the two assemblies, as was the case with the Organic Law on Social Security Financing Laws of 2005 (LOLFSS). Our rapporteur, Mr Thomas Mesnier, wanted to abolish the extension of the social security financing laws to the unemployment insurance scheme, which he considered premature. You would prefer, Mr rapporteur, to be content with information on the unemployment insurance scheme and the supplementary pension scheme. You also wanted to go back to the vote on limiting credits for ONDAM funds and agencies, which you consider inappropriate. Above all, however, the CMP has taken note of the majority's desire to re-establish the debt provisions of health and medical-social institutions. During the examination of the draft organic and ordinary laws on social debt and autonomy, we stressed that the housing debt of hospitals, in particular, was not covered by social insurance or social debt within the meaning of the CADES – social debt amortization fund. Indeed, the latter is not intended to be a fund for financing hospital investment. However, there is concern that such a provision, re-established in a special commission, will seek to secure legal certainty for future changes to the mechanism for the resumption of hospital debt; it would be in danger of making case law. I therefore propose that it be abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u14	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u15	Finally, the CMP failed mainly because of the refusal to introduce, from the PLFSS by 2025, a golden rule designed to ensure the balance of social accounts in the medium term. Our colleagues in the Senate had in fact adopted at first reading a golden rule mechanism which provided that social accounts should be balanced over a period of five years. The basic social security schemes and the Old Age Solidarity Fund (FSV) experienced unprecedented deficits in 2020 and 2021, but the HCFIPS believes that "reaffirming the objective of financial balance is consistent with the nature of social protection expenditure: in a distributed system, it is a matter of avoiding debt transfers from present generations to future generations. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u16	Yes! That's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u17	That is why I propose to reinstate this provision deleted by the Special Committee. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the Republican Group will abstain from this proposal for an organic law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u18	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u19	It has been twenty-five years since our country, through a constitutional review and an organic law, adopted a legislative process dedicated to the control and control of all social finances by Parliament. Since then, the social security financing laws have been an essential event in which Members of Parliament and Senators decide on the revenue and expenditure of the various branches of social security for the coming year. It is a foundation that we must maintain, but we must also consolidate and modernise. Today, more than ever, the legislative approach to the financing of social protection must be as transparent and comprehensive as possible. While the financial year for the financing of social security is now well assimilated, it has not been reformed for a long time; However, the ecosystem of compulsory social security schemes is constantly changing. These two bills are therefore an opportunity to adapt and adjust the pilotage of the FSLs. After they were adopted at first reading, here in July and then in the Senate, where they were profoundly changed, we are back this morning for another reading because of the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. While we regret it, these two texts remain of particular importance in two respects: firstly with regard to strengthening the control powers of the two assemblies, and secondly with regard to improving the pilotage and readability of LFSS. They are a welcome step towards the objective we have set ourselves, which is to increase Parliament's role in reviewing and monitoring social security financing laws. The various measures they include will enable parliamentarians to benefit from a clearer and wider view of social finances, and to have more time to analyse them – and the lack of time is one of the main difficulties that we Members face every year. The progress of the date of tabling of the PLFSS on the Bureau of the Assembly is excellent news, both the delays in getting acquainted with a text as dense as it is complex have been forced in recent years. The creation of a new category of LFSS, namely the Social Security Accounts Approval Act, completes the work undertaken over the past three years in the framework of the Social Spring of Evaluation. It will be an opportunity to hold a debate earlier in the year on the accounts closed for the previous financial year; It's welcome and it's happy. We also welcome several provisions introduced by the Senate, which draw lessons from the health crisis by providing for the transmission of a detailed report from the Government to the social affairs commissions of the two chambers in the event of an exceptional deterioration of social security accounts. Indeed, we now know that between two social security financing laws, external events can significantly affect the expenditure forecasts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u20	In case of a hard blow, it can exceed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u21	In addition, the introduction of annexes on unemployment insurance is an interesting step forward; It will provide an expanded annual view of these key issues as a result of the reforms carried out during this legislature. The organic text also provides for several measures relating to health facilities, and it is on this point that the disagreement between the two chambers has crystallized. The extension of the optional area of LFSS to the debt of health and medical-social institutions, which could therefore be transferred to CADES, as well as the creation of a new annex on the financial situation of these institutions, can be questioned. The Senate, drawing on the advice of the Council of State, considered that these provisions were not covered by social security financing laws and even ran the risk of being unconstitutional. However, the latest LFSS contained measures relating to hospital debts, which were also quite necessary. We would therefore like the Secretary of State to enlighten us on this matter, even if we know that, like any organic law, this text will be subject to automatic review by the Constitutional Council. Finally, we would have liked these texts to take over the thorny question of ONDAM and its sub-objectives, on which parliamentarians currently have no room for manoeuvre, even though they are the main lever for directing expenditure. [[The rapporteur applauds]] In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will support the adoption of these two texts; They contain provisions that value and strengthen Parliament's role in the process of approving the state of social finances, and that make this process more transparent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u22	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u23	So here we are for the re-reading of two bills on social security financing laws. If there is a new reading, it is that we have not been able to reach an agreement, in the CMP, with our honourable senators, on the first version of the text. As I told you in the Special Committee, the rapporteur, the aim of this report is to organise the budgetary discussion on LFSS: it is therefore not a question of setting objectives but simply of establishing a framework for transparency and readability of data, in which representatives of each political group can then define their own objectives. I do not understand that we fail to agree on the definition of such a framework. To reach an agreement implies an effort by the majority: I would remind you that on the organic law on financial laws, we had reached it: a consensus has emerged to define a framework for the review of financial laws. We do not share the same objectives, but the fact that we have reached agreement on the framework allows us to examine these laws. I therefore very much regret that the same could not be said about the LFSS, which explains why we are meeting this morning. And if we have not succeeded, it is because many questions remain; I am also one of those who have long deplored the fact that the budgetary debate on social security financing laws is not based on more data, clarification and objectives. I will therefore go back to a number of points, in particular the amendments tabled by the Socialist and related groups to enrich the two texts. Firstly, we would like Parliament to have real power over ONDAM. At the moment – it must be acknowledged – in this area we do not serve anything. When we look at the financial laws, we vote for a fiscal trajectory and a deficit target for public finances, so we have – a little bit – our say in this. As far as social security financing laws are concerned, however, our amendments are systematically rebutted and we are ultimately only spectators of the definitions proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u24	This is a form of insinuity, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u25	On the other hand, ONDAM is a completely disconnected envelope from the health needs expressed by our territories. We would therefore like the ONDAM to be able to incorporate territorial objectives. In a similar vein, we would like the PLFSS to be accompanied by a scoreboard containing the major strategic objectives of health and social policies, the declination of these objectives into actions carried out by social security branches and agencies, and the declination of these actions into financial means. This proposal is not just from our group: it aims to respond to one of the recommendations made by the HCFIPS, which, in its opinion on the bill, considers that "the main issue is not an ever more refined budget framework, but increasingly disconnected from reality. It is based on the continuous and real search for coherence between public action and public finance objectives. In order to build this scoreboard, we will propose the creation of a conference on social finance, which will bring together all social security actors in advance of each PLFSS and will present a report with specific objectives. We will then propose to encrypt the appendices to the PLFSS, including the measures proposed to the Government, using dynamic and non-static data – if we simply look at the past to perform the encryptions, we will not go very far. To do this, Bercy has the famous Mésange software – an econometric model of simulation and general economic analysis – that works very well. Finally, as I said at first reading – I have always defended this position and I know that it is not necessarily the majority – I regret that the examination of global revenue is not the subject of a merger between the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Social Affairs. I know it creates a bit of frying because each one defends its perimeter and its square meadow. At first reading, however, we had considered a real global debate – rather than separate discussions each living their own lives – in order to have an overall view of budgetary balances based on the total amount of revenue. That is why we are proposing to the Government to resume our amendment declared inadmissible – I wonder why – to allow for a joint discussion of the revenue components of the Finance Bill (PLF) and the PLFSS. The entanglement of the provisions of the State and the social security administrations is such that no one can find themselves there. If you cut one VAT hose here, another one there, you can cause great damage to public finances without even realizing it. It is therefore essential to have a comprehensive discussion on revenue in order to achieve the objectives set for readability and transparency and to fulfil the duty we have towards our citizens: to vote with a clear vision of all public finances. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] That is why the Socialist and Related Group will not vote in favour of the current version of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u26	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u27	This morning, in a new reading, we are considering the two proposals for laws, both organic and ordinary, on social security financing laws. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would first like to thank the rapporteur once again for inviting us, through these two texts, to modernise the procedure for examining LFSS and to strengthen parliamentary control over the management of social finances. This opportunity is not so frequent, as it is only the second revision of the LFSS organic framework since its inception in 1996. The failure of the conciliation process in the Joint Joint Committee reflects a number of major differences of opinion between our Assembly and the Senate, particularly as regards the scope of the LFSS or its evaluation. These few hard points, however, must not evade the important work that our honourable senators have done to enrich the substance of the text. In fact, the special committee has retained several provisions introduced by the upper chamber, such as those designed to provide parliamentarians with better information on the development of social accounts, particularly in times of crisis. The proposal for an organic law that we are debating today pursues the objective of strengthening the role and strategic dimension of the LFSS, while their conditions of review make it difficult to thoroughly analyse and evaluate the measures involved. This observation, which we all experience every year in the budgetary period, is shared by the Court of Auditors and the HCFIPS. To this end, the Organic Law aims first of all to improve the information and work of Parliament on social finances. To this end, it plans to devote more time to the review of the FSLP, aligning its timetable with that of the finance bill, and to lighten the many documents attached to it for the sake of clarity to which our group fully subscribes. In addition, it proposes a real reorganization of the content of the LFSS, with the creation of laws approving the social security accounts, examined in the spring on the model of the budget settlement laws. This new legislative vehicle will be designed to become our scoreboard. It will allow us to assess, in full transparency, the state of social accounts and the implementation of the measures already financed, before considering a correction for the following years. This time-coherence will improve the articulation and control of LFSS. She is therefore welcome, and we will strongly support her. In the same vein, the inclusion of an introductory article in the approval laws will accurately reflect the estimates of expenditure, revenue and balance of the various social security administrations. This approval law is part of the follow-up to the Social Spring of the Evaluation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u28	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u29	This highlight, which has been held for almost four years in our Assembly, has established itself as an essential annual meeting for the evaluation of social policies. However, the practice of this exercise invites us to improve its functioning so that our Assembly can fully and effectively exercise its task of monitoring public action. I come to the scope of the LFSS, which the Senate has proposed to expand to cover unemployment insurance. While there are many similarities with the current branches of social security, our group considers that it is still premature to consider such an extension. On the other hand, we welcome the addition of new annexes to Article 2 to inform national representation on the financial situation of unemployment insurance and supplementary pension schemes. The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of these two bills. The planned measures will improve the readability of social finances for parliamentarians, of course, but also – and perhaps above all – for the social partners and the general public. They will also improve the management of social finances, through the adoption of a holistic and multi-annual vision, which is necessary for the proper understanding of social accounts. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Whether they deal with the budget of the public hospital, reimbursement of drugs, social security contributions or parental leave, the LFSS are extremely important laws, the development and follow-up of which will benefit from the adoption of these two laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u30	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u31	In the preamble, I would like to endorse the objective of this text: to improve the appropriation of the social security budget by parliamentarians through, inter alia, the incorporation of the law on the financing of social security and the law on the approval of social security accounts into the organic law on LFSS. The recasting of the annexes and the obligation to table texts within a certain period of time will improve the holding of our budgetary debates, which take place every year under difficult conditions. However, these few measures cannot compensate for the particularly unfair and strict interpretation of the admissibility of the amendments to the budget texts – a phenomenon which has worsened considerably during this legislature. This reservation is all the more valid given that the work of senators has shed a raw light on the lack of ambition of the original version of the text. You have thus refused to extend the scope of social security financing laws to cover unemployment insurance. It is incomprehensible, however, that Parliament has no decision in this area, as we have seen in the recent reform of unemployment insurance: this has only required a decree, without any real debate in Parliament. Such a debate could perhaps have avoided censorship by the Council of State, which, outside the period of the health crisis, forced the Government to review its copy and postpone the entry into force of its reform. The introduction of the golden rule, which the IDU and independent group has been defending for several years both in the Senate and in the Assembly, is the realization in our organic framework of the principle of good management of public finances. You didn't want it either. The golden rule, as introduced by the Senate, would have imposed a path of social finances reaching balance before the bill to finance social security for 2025. Such rigour would allow us to create room for manoeuvre in times of crisis. The rejection of this measure demonstrates the lack of political will on the part of the majority and the Government to manage public finances reasonably. We cannot resign ourselves to leaving it to future generations to pay our bills. With regard to the monitoring of the Government's action by Parliament, I would like to point out that this is one of the constitutional prerogatives of our institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u32	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u33	Let us take Article 3b, which integrates the social affairs committees of the two chambers into the procedure for increasing the overdraft ceiling of social security bodies. The majority has profoundly altered this provision by adding an exception in the event of an "imperative need in the national interest". This is the kind of exception that will quickly replace the rule. Finally, our group is campaigning for a major act of decentralization, including in the field of health – I repeat this regularly. It is up to us to strictly respect the principle of subsidiarity, which assigns competence at the most relevant level. We are convinced that territorial disparities in health needs require decentralizing regional decision-making. The State would remain the guarantor of equal access to health care in all territories – a mission that it is not always able to accomplish – and it would be up to the regions to decline public health policies according to the specificities of each of them. In conclusion, we regret that the majority has not reached an agreement with the Senate. On a text as fundamental as the LFSS organic law, we could have met with compromise. We must note that this has not been the case, while our colleagues who have worked on the reform of the Organic Law on Finance Laws have succeeded. The refusal to strengthen Parliament's power to monitor the Government's action and the lack of political will to correct social accounts outweigh my group's unfavorable vote on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u34	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u35	I now call, in the text of the special committee, the articles of the proposed organic law on social security financing laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u36	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u37	It is intended to restore the wording of rule 1e r as a result of the proceedings of the Senate, for reasons I have just indicated in the general discussion. Its first objective is to extend the scope of the LFSS to cover unemployment insurance. Thus, only FSLs could provide for reductions in their uncompensated revenues. In this way, measures of fundamental importance have completely escaped Parliament, such as the reform of unemployment insurance or the introduction of partial unemployment. Such integration would not undermine the power and role of the social partners, as demonstrated by the example of the occupational accidents and diseases (AT-MP) branch, which is fully integrated into the LFSS. Secondly, the amendment seeks to correct the shortcomings in the control of health insurance expenditure. On the one hand, the transfer within the LFSS of expenses previously covered by the general budget and subject to limited appropriations, as was the case for Santé publique France, has caused Parliament to lose any control during management on expenditure which can now be increased by several billion euros by simple ministerial decree. On the other hand, the expenditure of health institutions is insufficiently monitored and documented, while the financial fragility of these institutions has led to a resumption of the ongoing hospital debt. Such measures would strengthen Parliament's role without hampering the rapid commitment of the necessary expenditure to deal with the health crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u38	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u39	Unfavorable opinion. We have already debated this amendment at first reading and in a special committee, which tends to go back to the drafting of the article adopted in the Senate. As I said earlier, there are a number of issues raised by such drafting. With regard to governance and financing, it is certainly possible to draw a parallel between unemployment insurance and supplementary pensions on the one hand, and social security on the other. However, in view of recent developments – particularly in the area of the governance of unemployment insurance – and the current positions of the social partners with whom I have discussed a great deal, it seems premature to make further changes such as the full integration of this area into the LFSS. I prefer to stick to the provisions adopted at first reading: full information from Parliament, which represents a real step forward for parliamentarians who will thus have a good vision of the whole field of social protection. Furthermore, I do not think it appropriate to introduce restrictive credits in a text whose philosophy is based on evaluation criteria.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u40	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u41	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u42	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor to support Amendments Nos 19, 18 and 17, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u43	These three amendments reflect the comments I made during the general discussion. The PLFSS is currently built only on a budget vision, while it should reflect the means to achieve set objectives. Amendment No 19 aims to ensure that the PLFSS has a multi-annual dimension and defines health and social objectives, which would then be set aside for action. Amendment No 18 proposes that ONDAM should be determined according to the territorial health needs, following a public consultation of the actors in the health system. Finally, Amendment No 17 seeks to remove Parliament's prohibition on defining the sub-components of ONDAM, which is tantamount to negating the role of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u44	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u45	ONDAM is built on health and public health goals set by the Government in connection with health insurance funds. For health insurance as for other branches, objectives are already defined. The PLFSS fits more strongly into a multi-year logic than the PLF you know very well. If the different objectives of ONDAM are set for the following year, Appendix B displays data over four years, which gives the multi-year vision you want. The ONDAM already has several sub-objectives set by the Government that can be modified on a governmental initiative. As far as territorial issues are concerned, health policies can be largely adapted to regional situations, notably through the regional intervention fund (RIF) envelopes controlled by regional health agencies (RHAs). It is therefore up to them to develop regional policies and actions. The opinion on these three amendments is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u47	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u48	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u49	It saddens me that you mentioned the IRF because it represents an epsilonesque amount of the overall social security budget; However, we ask that health policies be translated into actions that really take into account territorial objectives – I insist on this word – but you do not answer on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u50	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u51	Amendment No 17 by Mrs Rabault, which the rapporteur has swept away a little quickly,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u52	The pruner!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u53	... seems very interesting to me. We will have to think at some point – perhaps in the coming legislatures – about the establishment of the so-called DORDAMs, namely the regional health insurance expenditure targets.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u54	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u55	That's a beautiful acronym!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u56	Indeed, the link between ONDAM and the FIR, which is led by regional health agencies, is quite complex; In addition, the total amount of the IRF, which amounts to EUR 7 or 8 billion, is similar to powdering in the regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u57	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u58	The ONDAM, on the other hand, has been decided from above, since the ministry. As a result, it will be necessary to negotiate ORDAMs. If you do not mind, Mr rapporteur, the next governments will have to think about it much more closely.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u59	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendments Nos 25 and 26, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u60	I welcome what Mr Door has just said, because Amendment No 25 provides for the establishment of regional health insurance expenditure targets. I have repeated it quite often, the regions are the best level to implement health policy because unfortunately we do not have the same health according to whether we live in the Hauts-de-France or in Occitanie. Such an act of decentralization would make it possible to take better account of territorial needs. In the context of the health crisis, the investment of local and regional authorities and the effectiveness of their efforts to protect the health of each individual has been widely measured. Amendment No 25 therefore aims at relaunching the reflection on the implementation of the ORDAMs. With Amendment No 26, we are calling for social security funding laws no longer to be similar to annual reforms of the health system, as is the case at present. Indeed, every year, during the examination of the PLFSS, we realize that many articles do not have a direct connection with the financing of social security – apart from the fact that the provisions provided for involve additional expenditure on social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u61	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u62	For several years, our group has been constantly denouncing this drift. Yesterday, at its hearing by the Committees on Finance and Social Affairs, the Minister for Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, referred to the possibility that the financing of social security could be the subject of multiannual programming. This seems to me necessary from the point of view of our social accounts. It is not normal to legislate as is currently being done because, apart from the fact that all our amendments are declared inadmissible, it is not possible to implement a long-term health policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u63	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u64	He's unfavorable. We have discussed the issue of the ORDAM on several occasions, including in a special committee. I am against their implementation in more than one way. The first reason is that, if regional objectives were to be defined, there would be as many objectives as regions, which would increase the number of sub-objectives and regional agreements – for example with health insurance. The whole financing of social protection, in any case in the field of health, would then become perfectly illegible. Above all, health policy must remain, in our view, national. I also note, in reply to Mr Door and Mrs Rabault, who referred to this idea, that, to my knowledge, the implementation of the ORDAM is not one of Mrs Pécress's proposals...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u65	She won't present them until tomorrow! It'll be Oyonnax!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u66	...and among those of Mrs. Hidalgo. The latter did not mention it in the interview on health issues recently published in the press and I do not think I have heard Ms Pécress mention this idea – but I will listen carefully to her proposals on this subject, Mr Bazin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u67	You're in the caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u68	You're the one who's in charge right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone will be able to speak, but for the time being I would ask you to listen to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u70	Members have the right to table amendments, they do not depend on their party!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u71	We're here to debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u72	We're not here to make propaganda!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u73	Neither do I, Congressman! We are here to discuss social security financing laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u74	The adoption of Amendment No. 26 by Mrs Six would severely limit the optional part of the FSL as well as expenditure, as the right of amendment would be forced. It is certainly possible to adopt certain health reforms within the framework of the LFSS – which happened regularly during this legislature – but this does not prevent the submission to Parliament of major health bills, such as those defended by Mrs Touraine in 2016 or by Mrs Buzyn in 2020, or legislative proposals, such as the one defended by Mrs Rist last year or those on the initiative of parliamentarians, the Socialist and related group having given us the example last week.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u75	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u76	He's unfavorable. On Amendment No 26, it is for the reasons set out at the moment by the rapporteur. Let me turn to Amendment No 25, which seeks to set regional objectives. Mrs Six, the territorial disparities, which you mentioned, are not only interregional; They are also intraregional – and they are 70%. The development of tools by hand of SRAs would be more able to respond to the concern for equality than the construction of regional objectives, which would prove ineffective. Moreover, as the rapporteur has said, this would inevitably lead to other forms of regionalisation, for example that of tariffs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u77	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u78	Yes, ma'am! So what would be the social acceptability of such schemes? For all these reasons, the High Council for the Future of Health Insurance (HCAAM), in a recent opinion on the recast of ONDAM, has, as you know, voted against such a regional approach. We prefer a deconcentration of investments, which we have undertaken in the framework of the Ségur de la santé, and an increase in the operating procedures of the IRF, the amount of which currently amounts to 7 billion euros, which is not nothing to sprinkle, Mr Door.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u79	It's a sprinkle, I repeat!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u80	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u81	I note that you are eager to know the programs of the candidates who have been willing to unmask. But when you talk about the situation of others, you try to hide the slippage of public accounts for which the Government and the majority are responsible. This slippage is very worrying because today's debts are tomorrow's taxes. [[Smile]] Candidate Valérie Pécresse's health program will be presented on Friday in Oyonnax. If you're interested – since you looked worried – you're welcome. More seriously, I come to the very interesting amendments by Mr Six. As Alain Ramadier and Jean-Pierre Door point out to me, the proposals to set up ORDAMs and to change the governance of RHAs by giving more weight to the territorial level are not upuesque and are even advocated by very serious health economists. Secretary of State, the Ségur de la santé is opaque and illegible in the territories. We find it difficult to distinguish clear procedures, except for calls for projects for which we do not know which candidate will be selected or how.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u82	That's the principle of a call for projects!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u83	There is a problem of governance and management of public accounts in the territories. The idea of setting up ORDAMs is all the more interesting because it would empower actors at the local level. You say that it would necessarily lead to regionalisation of rates: not necessarily! National tariffs could be maintained while empowering local actors. Clearly, there is a lack of control over our public accounts in this area. President Rabault said earlier: unlike the general state budget, we have no visibility of the deficits in the social accounts. As situations differ from one territory to another, these issues need to be addressed at the local level. That is the meaning of our proposals. It is a pity that, on such an important subject, you are sweeping all of our amendments, none of which have been adopted today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u85	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u86	[[Marie-George Buffet applauds]] I would like to reply on three points to the rapporteur. First of all, we are not going to seek our orders from our candidates – unlike you perhaps. We retain our freedom to make proposals. That is the role of a parliamentarian! Secondly, I note that you have not read Mrs Hidalgo's programme carefully since it takes up the content of Amendment No 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u87	It's new!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u88	I therefore invite you to read it more seriously, which will prevent you from saying that our proposals and his proposals are completely disconnected. Finally, the president of the Occitanie region, where my constituency is located, has repeatedly told you about her plans to open up training places for nurses or physiotherapists. It would be funded by the regional council that is just waiting for your authorization. But you refuse to give it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u89	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u90	Yes! However, I repeat, it is the regional council that pays. Based on a needs assessment in the territory, a local community proposes to finance training itself, build buildings and take over all infrastructure. You oppose a refusal to this project, without giving the beginning of an explanation. As you can see, the current system is not working very well. If we could define ORDAMs, it would improve our responsiveness. For it is indeed a problem of reactivity that arose long before this crisis and which intensified with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u91	This time I will give the floor to more than two speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u92	It's important, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u93	I agree. Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u94	With regard to the ORDAM, if territorialisation is justified, population allocations have the preference of the majority because, in terms of both funding and strategy, the governance of health must remain national and national objectives, in particular in order to address all inequalities which, before being territorial, are primarily national. There must be no confusion in the distribution of competences: the bodies responsible for diagnosis must lead to shared solutions for co-building solutions. Parliament should have more influence on ONDAM, but it is paradoxical to ask for more power for Parliament and, at the same time, to kick in towards the regions, which are not, moreover, completely homogeneous.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u95	Mr Marc Delatte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u96	At this point in our debate, two words dominate: responsibility and solidarity. We can all, not just the presidential majority but all the deputies, tell the French that we are faithful to the order of 4 October 1945 which created social security. It is important to preserve this social model; Despite this crisis, this storm, which has shaken our system, we will of course continue to help all caregivers. There is no question of reducing health spending while their expectations are so high on this point. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] In addition, I would like to remind you, in order to bring some flesh to this debate, that the remaining zero charge for patients with deafness, who had to pay 850 euros – I have known – is a real step forward: they now have quality audio prosthetics, which can break loneliness and strengthen the social bond. This is the message that must be sent to the French. Whatever happens, we will continue to preserve our social protection system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u97	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u98	I fully agree with Mr Marc Delatte when he speaks of responsibility and solidarity, but the life expectancy should be the same from one region to another; But that is not the case. I can see in the Hauts-de-France that we die faster for the same diseases than in other regions; It is not the caregivers, it is the population that needs the quality of life that allows it to live longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u99	I have before me two amendments, Nos 1 and 54, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u100	With this amendment, I maintain a position that we have always supported in previous social security financing bills: expenditure on support for investment in hospitals must not finance care, in this case health insurance benefits, and therefore cannot fall within the scope of expenditure covered by social security. However, hospital debt has recently been transferred to CADES, which has created a legal instability that this bill aims to address. Although the Constitutional Council, as you pointed out in the Special Committee, the rapporteur, considered that this provision could fall within the scope of the social security financing laws, the amendment seeks to challenge its appropriateness. We continue to believe, like the social partners and HCFIPS, that investment support allocations for hospitals cannot be considered as a social expenditure of health insurance and should not fall within the scope of the sickness risk covered by national solidarity. These allocations must be the subject of a debate other than the consideration of social security financing bills.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u101	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No. 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u102	It aims to eliminate the management of hospital property debt from social security financing laws. As our colleague has just said, the HCFIPS has wondered about this; Similarly, the Council of State concluded that this element had nothing to do with the FSLs. Your bill ignores these opinions. The Senate wanted to take the real estate debt out of the LFSS field, but you refused this proposal, Mr.Rapporteur, which has made a major contribution to the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. The trade unions, which sit on the Joint Health Insurance Boards, are also shocked that provisions which are totally foreign to them are introduced into the health insurance budget.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u103	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u104	As in first reading and in special committee, the opinion is unfavourable. First of all, I recall that the Constitutional Council, seized by senators, did not censor the LFSS for 2022 and found no objection to the resumption of hospital debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u105	Yes, but the Constitutional Council is not always right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u106	In addition, the provision that I propose, which is in no way contrary to the spirit of the FSL, will ensure the legal certainty of the scheme. If the financial trajectory of health and medical and social institutions, which are financed to a large extent by the compulsory basic social security schemes, is not linked to national solidarity, Mrs Bagarry, I do not know what can have it! Mr Door, the CMP has not only seized on this point,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u107	Especially on that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u108	...but also on the golden rule and on the financing of RSAs. On this last point, I will propose an amendment to clause 2 in the direction of the Senate so that Parliament can be better informed. I will conclude by saying that I have not had any concerns on the part of the trade unions with regard to this provision; They also had no difficulty in admitting the recovery of EUR 13 billion in hospital debt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u109	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u110	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u111	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u112	My colleague Jean-Pierre Door's amendment is consistent with what the Republicans group defends in the social security financing laws: As the Vice-President of the Special Committee is well aware, at the last CMPs, this subject has always come back to the table. The real estate assets of hospitals and their related debts pose a real question: they should not be included in the social security budget since they are a specific asset. Mr Secretary of State, it is important not to hide from each other and not to hide behind the debt write-off, while most institutions face a real estate problem. Indeed, the expected re-evaluation following the Secur de la santé had to come partly from the revival of activity, which has declined considerably in many hospitals. I am not talking about the guarantees of financing such as daytime receptions, but about the decline in activity: this is worrying and, according to the officials we have heard, generates a loss of self-financing; what was won with the debt write-off is lost because of this contraction. Their inability to carry out real estate projects, which are expected to improve working and care conditions, is becoming problematic. The real estate trail that you are asked to study should be dug in such a way as to restore a breath of air and ensure the coherence that the social security budget cannot provide in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u113	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u114	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor, and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u115	I did not say that hospital debt should not be covered by national solidarity, but that it should not be covered by the risk of illness. It is well known that hospitals may have benefited for their real estate from subsidies from regional, departmental or other solidarity. It must be borne in mind that the transfer of real estate debt to CADES has led to the loss of social security, particularly the social partners, of the ability to finance risks and benefits, including the autonomy branch. However, this is a very serious change, which may persist if this organic law permits transfers of real estate debts to social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u116	I have before me three amendments by the rapporteur. Amendments Nos 36 and 37 are drafting; Amendment No 38 is to be coordinated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u117	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u118	The purpose of this amendment is to restore the wording of section 2 as a result of the proceedings of the Senate. It complements the annexes to the draft law on the financing of social security and creates projects on the efficiency of social policies designed to analyse the future expenditure of each branch and to set the objectives of efficiency and quality. The main measure of this drafting is the introduction of a golden rule aimed at ensuring a medium-term financial balance in the social security accounts. The Government would thus be subject to budgetary discipline in the maintenance of social accounts outside of any crisis. This rigour would allow us to have room for healthy manoeuvre in times of crisis and would protect us from the temptation to base today's spending on future generations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u119	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u120	He proposed that a report should be annexed to each PLFSS describing, for the next four years, the expenditure and revenue of the branches of the general social security system. The current report does not offer economic actors a medium- or long-term vision of a possible state-defined trajectory, and its lack of precision makes it untapped. Health system actors need the visibility and stability of health policies and spending, especially as the health crisis has shown us the extent of the work that remains to be done to reform our health system. This new report would include a component devoted to expenditure and revenue in the drug sector; In addition, consideration should be given to expanding the number of sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u121	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u122	I reiterate the unfavourable opinion given in the special committee. First, the information you are requesting is already available in the appendices to each PLFSS; Then, the Annex B you are proposing to amend deals with large sets and is not intended to incorporate specific components such as that of the drug.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u123	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u124	Same opinion for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u125	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u126	We regret in this amendment that the elements you provide do not allow for anticipation or foresight. Indeed, the measures proposed by the Government are based on static and non-dynamic data. The documentation produced on the basis of these data therefore does not take into account the macroeconomic effects of the new provisions envisaged in the PLF and the PLFSS. However, tax increases and reductions in social contributions have a real impact, which must be anticipated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u127	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u128	I probably don't have as much knowledge of the PLF as President Rabault, but what you're proposing already exists for the PLFSS. I refer you to pages 31 et seq. of Annex 4 of the PLFSS for 2022, which present the impact of the measures proposed in the text on the budget path of each branch and the financial balance table. Since your request has been met, I propose that you withdraw the amendment; Otherwise, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u129	Same opinion, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u130	Yes, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u131	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor to support Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u132	This is the famous amendment which tends to introduce the golden rule in the field of social security finances. This scheme would require that the sum of the consolidated balances of the basic compulsory social security schemes and the FSV be, over a period of five years, always positive or zero. Yesterday, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, said that he was not against the principle, but that the health crisis created problems; Mr. Olivier Dussopt also referred to these difficulties. However, the amendment provides that in the event of a major crisis, the period could extend to 10 years. This makes sense if the covid's debt is included in the social security budget; If it had come out, the problem would not arise in the same terms. [[The rapporteur smiles]] In Germany, this golden rule exists, despite the health crisis and its cycle of additional spending. We have been calling for it for years, on the benches of the right and the center. You are young, Mr rapporteur, but I have the memory of Jean-Luc Préel, elected from a department not far from yours, who already referred to him. When François Baroin was minister of the budget, the idea of a golden rule to be included in the PLFSS was put on the table. Yesterday, Olivier Véran again rejected this proposal, but with a clear hesitation and very friendly words of humor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u133	Always nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u134	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u135	We had this debate at first reading; We discussed the subject again yesterday in committee with Ministers Véran and Dussopt. As it stands, the provision you are proposing would be inapplicable, unless there is a substantial increase in taxes and social contributions. I will follow Mr Bazin's advice and listen carefully to your proposals which will be presented on Friday; If the gold rule is part of it, I will be curious to see what tax increases it will be accompanied by. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u136	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u137	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u138	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u139	I did not have time to reply to the rapporteur on Amendment No 23, but Annex 4 shows the effects only for the following year; We are talking about multi-annual effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u140	The amendment also refers to the following year!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u141	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u142	[[The rapporteur smiles]] I feel that the rapporteur wants to launch a debate! [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] There comes a time when we have to get out of the woods! If the host of the Elysée Palace wants to be a presidential candidate, tell him to stop using public money to campaign! You're driving lies saying that we would be forced to increase taxes and taxes. Contrary to what you have done in the last five years, we are proposing structural reforms. But these reforms – I am thinking in particular of pension reform – would give us the opportunity to make real savings while maintaining an adequate level of pensions for our pensioners, and without increasing contributions or taxes. We are defending a coherent programme. You have not carried out any substantive reforms, and this has implications for the social security budget. The pension sector's deficit exceeds EUR 30 billion – I am speaking under the control of colleagues who know these figures better than I do. This is the only quinquennium, in twenty years, where a pension reform has not been carried out. Even the socialists had made one; The right, every time she was in power, made one.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u143	You've helped us a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u144	Your inaction explains the deterioration of social accounts. You claim that it would be necessary to increase contributions and taxes; But structural reforms help to avoid these increases and to preserve the purchasing power of the French – a strong expectation of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u145	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u146	We are neither one nor the other candidate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u147	It will come!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u148	... but I remind you that in 2019, we were reaching the balance of accounts, for the first time in a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u149	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u150	The social security hole was in the process of being completely removed and the CADES was due to be extinguished in 2024. It did not escape you that a health crisis arrived along the way,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u151	I remember 49.3 most of all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u152	... upsetting the timetable for public policies, in particular the pension reform which was then under discussion in the House. We have carried out several reforms; We wish to continue, but we will have other opportunities to discuss it. In any event, our social protection system has held, as has our country through various measures to support our economy. Deputy Minister Dussopt announced yesterday a better economic outlook than expected, with several billion euros in additional revenue. This allows us, despite the health crisis, to work with a positive horizon. But with 10 billion euros in deficit, the golden rule that you propose would mechanically impose 10 billion euros in surplus by 2028, which would not be easy. That is why I am referring to the need to find new recipes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u153	We're going to work more!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u154	It's not a good demonstration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u155	But we will have other opportunities to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u156	Mr Alain David, in support of Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u157	We wish to remove the difference between the social security expenditure shown in the Public Finance Programming Act and the expenditure forecast in the PLFSS for the following year. Indeed, this meter suffers from many pitfalls.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u158	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u159	He's going in the same direction. I would like to go back to the spirit of this bill, which aims at the appropriation by parliamentarians, the social partners and citizens in general of social security financing laws, clearer information and a multi-annual approach to social security accounts. If we continue to review spending in the short term annually without looking at its long-term effects, how can we have a peripheral view of the decisions taken? How can we stand up to assess the efficiency of public policies, their coherence and their relevance both to the objectives set and to the expectations of citizens? Of course, the social security accounts aim at a balance between revenue and expenditure, but there is a need to maintain a balance-driven approach where we are concerned that expenditure is being driven. Balance management ensures consistency of objectives and resources, as well as efficiency of management tools. I propose that the report provided for in Article 2 should present for "the next four years the forecast of the balance of the compulsory social security schemes and of the bodies contributing to their financing which are included in the same law and ensure their consistency with the public policies carried by each of the branches".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u161	Annex B already includes the balances of all basic mandatory schemes for the next four years. Your amendment would create a perfect duplication. Proposal for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u162	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u163	It aims to enrich the meter of the gap between, on the one hand, the social security revenues indicated in the Public Finance Programming Act and, on the other hand, the revenues provided for in the PLFSS. As the text is currently being drafted, the difference counter covers only the expenditure of the basic compulsory social security schemes and the agencies involved in their financing. Therefore, it does not include the revenues of these plans and agencies. This truncated presentation risks developing a stigmatizing vision of social security spending, that of a naturally derived expenditure. We propose to enrich the counter of deviations from a revenue vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u164	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 16 and 52. Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u165	It is intended to remove the Government's obligation to present the planned measures to reduce any discrepancies. The cost variance counter, as proposed in the text, does not take into account economic conditions. It therefore seems illogical to require the Government to submit measures to reduce these disparities. For example, if such a gap counter had been created prior to the economic crisis associated with the covid-19 epidemic, it would have shown deviations of several tens of billions of euros. The Government should have, as early as the PLFSS in 2021, therefore in October 2020, put forward measures to reduce these disparities, such as austerity measures aimed at reducing expenditure. It is a real aberration: these measures would then have slowed the economic recovery and penalized the most fragile of us. It is clear that this obligation to take measures to reduce variances in expenditure is out of the ground and therefore needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u166	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u167	Article 2 provides that the PLFSS of the year shall be accompanied by a report on revenue forecasts and expenditure targets for the next four years, reinforcing the multiannual logic of this budget. The report should also present the variances between actual estimates and expenditures and the measures planned by the Government to put an end to them. This provision reinforces the logic of adjustment by spending on the social security budget, which has been used for years to justify cuts in social expenditure. That is why we propose to delete this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u168	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u169	Unfavorable. While the text obliges the Government to explain the difference, for example, due to the health crisis, in the case you refer to, it does not require it to take measures to reduce the gap. It is a question of avoiding precisely the pitfall you are pointing out, namely the slowdown in economic recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u170	The idea is not to coerce. With your amendment, you break a tool you take for a policy. The Government will be obliged to explain the variances between the actual forecast and the actual expenditure, and may submit corrective measures to Parliament; Under no circumstances will it be obliged to do so, in order to avoid the logic of adjustment that you refer to.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u171	The rapporteur's amendment No 39 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u172	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u173	This is to take over a Senate proposal to create a Social Security Policy Evaluation Program (SSPEP). It is an evaluation tool that would test the efficiency of public policies over several years. The approach would not only be accounting, but would be based on the achievement of objectives measured by performance indicators. This could result in two separate appendices: in addition to the status of the site, another appendice would relate to the objectives. The latter could be the subject of a debate and a vote by Parliament on the basis of the objectives and indicators contained therein. This would also enable us to move beyond the annual approach that ONDAM is forcing us to take, by offering a different vision that would be discussed in the context of the Social Spring of Evaluation. It seems to me that it is in full coherence with the spirit of the proposed organic law, which aims to improve the understanding of public policies. Above all, this would strengthen the responsiveness to the needs of citizens by creating the conditions for a true social democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u174	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u175	The opinion is unfavorable, because your proposal would duplicate the Social Security Policy Evaluation Reports (SRSPs).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u176	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u177	It aims to create a separate annex on expenditure related to the actual prices of medicines, with a view to strengthening the information that is due to parliamentarians and, more generally, to citizens. This is also a question of transparency; We must be sufficiently enlightened. It is known that drug price inflation can threaten the sustainability of the health care system. The covid-19 pandemic has been marked – and still is – by a significant mobilization of public funds for medical research and development. It seems to me that working towards transparency in the pharmaceutical market is becoming more and more topical. This is an important issue in order to strengthen our health democracy, but also to ensure access to health products for all. The annexes currently available do not provide detailed and comprehensive information on the actual costs, i.e. actual prices, of medicines. This is why it is proposed to create a specific, detailed and transparent annex. I would add that the amendment is in line with the resolution of the World Health Assembly of May 2019, and the recommendations of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) of January 2017 calling for greater transparency in the pharmaceutical market by strengthening citizens' right to information. The amendment was drafted with Global Health Action, which is a collective of lawyers working for non-governmental organizations in the field of health.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u178	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u179	Annex 5 of the PLFSS, which traces the various measures for exemption from social security contributions, remains very brief with regard to the evaluation of these schemes. This is supported by the Court of Auditors in its 2019 report on the application of LFSS. It states that "assessments of the effectiveness of social niches do not have a perceptible effect on public choices. They cover a partial field and their methodology is unevenly robust. When evaluations find that some niches are inefficient, these are rarely called into question. For this reason, the Court recommends that social niches be better evaluated and that social niches be eliminated. In view of the sums involved, it is necessary for national representation to have a clearer understanding of the use of these devices by enterprises. This is why we propose to have a precise and detailed assessment of the impact of the exemption measures on job creation and wage dynamics in Annex 5 of the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u181	I fully share your intention. This is the whole purpose of strengthening the assessment of the exemptions from social contributions that I propose in the context of this bill, being aware of the additional workload that this task will represent for the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. All exemptions will be assessed on a regular basis to determine whether or not they meet the objective pursued at the time of their vote by Parliament. However, not all exemptions are for job creation or wage increases. Exemptions relating to the activity of retired doctors working in mountain areas or exemptions from meal or restaurant titles could not fall within the categories you are proposing. On the other hand, I confirm that exemptions specifically aimed at job creation or wage increases will be examined in relation to these objectives, on the basis of a three-year evaluation. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment because it is satisfied; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u182	The rapporteur's amendment No 40 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u183	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u184	We wish to remove from the scope of the PLFSS the annex on the financial perspectives of unemployment insurance which, despite the financial scoping of the State that you introduced with the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose its professional future, is still a joint scheme managed by the social partners. It follows from this paritarianism that when the legislator examines the PLFSS, it does not have to decide on the financial perspectives of unemployment insurance which do not fall at all within the scope of social security. We therefore want this annex to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u185	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u186	I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding your intention. This seems to me inconsistent in the sense that, since the scope of the introductory article of the LFSS covers all social security administrations, it is natural for parliamentarians to have the information they need to understand this introductory article – it is the same in the PLF. Furthermore, you feel that the management of the unemployment insurance scheme by the social partners does not require Parliament to know its financial perspectives. However, we already have these prospects for all the other branches of health insurance, such as the AT-MP branch, which are also jointly managed. Last but not least, in view of the debates we have had at first reading, I am surprised that you do not want parliamentarians to be properly informed of the decisions taken by the social partners and the Government, which, however, involve millions of French citizens. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u187	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u188	It aims to remove from the scope of the PLFSS the annex on the financial perspective of compulsory supplementary pension schemes, which are also jointly managed by the social partners. It follows from this paritarianism that the legislator does not have to be seized of the financial perspectives of these schemes when it examines the PLFSS.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u190	For the same reasons as the previous amendment, the opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u191	Amendment No 41 by the rapporteur is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u192	Amendments Nos 42 and 43 of the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u193	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u194	It is intended to remove from the scope of the previous year's draft law on the approval of social security accounts the annex on the statement of income, expenditure and balance of the unemployment insurance scheme. Indeed, despite the financial scoping of the State established by law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, unemployment insurance is still a joint scheme managed by social partners. Let everyone take care of what he or she is in charge of.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u195	Amendment No 14 by Mrs Valérie Rabault is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u196	The Secretary of State has the floor to support the Government's amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u197	It is an editorial amendment designed to isolate the provisions relating to the Court of Auditors' assistance mission within a specific section of Chapter Ia of Title I of Book I of the Social Security Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u198	The rapporteur's amendment No 44 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u199	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 56.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u200	As I indicated in the presentation of the text, this amendment is intended to inform Parliament's Social Affairs Committees when the budgets of the funds and agencies financed by health insurance – such as Public Health France or the Agency for Biomedicine (ABM) – are subject to an increase during the financial year of more than 10% compared to what was indicated in the annex to the voted LFSS. This information will complement the strengthening of the appendices and will, I believe, allow the text to be adopted in a consistent manner by our friends in this chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u201	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u202	It is a matter of further improving Parliament's information, through a proposal that we believe is both relevant and balanced, because it will allow us to reconcile the emergency mechanisms that need to be preserved and which have proved their usefulness in the crisis that we have been going through – the rapporteur quoted Santé publique France, whose budget we have had to increase by several hundred million euros in a very short period of time – with the good information of the parliamentary assemblies. The Government's opinion was therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u203	Amendment No 45, as corrected by the rapporteur, is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u204	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u205	It aims to develop a scoreboard with major strategic health and social policy objectives. It is consistent with the request for the inclusion of a real scoreboard to enrich the PLFSS, which we had formulated in Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u206	On the whole of the proposal for an organic law, I have a request for a public vote before me by the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u207	You are asking for a report on the challenges of health and social policies and the achievement of the objectives they pursue. However, there are already RESPs, which fall by branch and compare for each of them the achievements with the objectives set. For the family sector, the report is thus interested in the objectives of family policy, such as birth support, specific attention to modest families and reconciliation between work and personal life, especially for women. Secondly, you want to organise a social finance conference bringing together social security actors, including branches and agencies. Again, it already exists: it is the Social Security Board of Accounts, to which the Government traditionally presents the PLFSS at the end of September. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the caisses will now send their opinion to the parliamentarians, not to the Government. They will therefore have fifteen days, instead of just a few, which will be beneficial to all. I therefore propose that you withdraw your amendment. Otherwise, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u208	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u209	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u210	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u211	I would like to stress, citing a concrete example. When the shortage of medicines began to be felt in France, I wrote five times to the Minister of Solidarity and Health between November 2017 and the end of 2018. The subject was only addressed in a much later PLFSS. I had to wait until I questioned the Prime Minister, during the question-and-answer session in the Government on 19 June 2019, to see the situation change. At a minimum, we should organize alerts and have a dashboard that allows for accurate monitoring of all health-related topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u212	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u213	It aims to prevent the discussion of the PLFSS until its annexes have been tabled on the Bureau of the National Assembly. Indeed, these documents are submitted with a delay which grows each year. However, they are valuable, in particular Annex 7 on ONDAM. Thus, during the review of the PLFSS for 2022, Parliament did not have all the annexes until ten days after the text was tabled, whereas its consideration by the Social Affairs Committee of the National Assembly had already begun. This practice alters Parliament's information and therefore its right of amendment. It should be stopped, as Mrs Rabault has repeated repeatedly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u215	I understand your intention and share it. It is indeed complicated to discuss the financing bill without having all the information available, which is necessary to inform the debate. However, most of the information, which covers more than 800 pages, is provided on time and on time. Your amendment is, however, satisfactory, since this organic bill provides that the schedules will be remitted at the time of the tabling of the funding bill or the bill to approve the accounts, which is being moved forward, I would remind you. The adoption of your amendment would not improve the effectiveness of the scheme. I therefore propose that you withdraw it, failing which the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u216	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u217	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u218	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No 31.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u219	It is intended to restore the drafting of article 3 bis resulting from the proceedings of the Senate. The ability to evaluate Parliament's public policies depends largely on the data available to it. The aim is to extend the list of requests for administrative and financial information that the social affairs committees of the two chambers may make, by adding the assessment "of the financial impact of the evolution of one or more legislative provisions governing statutory benefits".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u220	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u221	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u222	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u223	Disadvantaged too. First, under article 20 of the Constitution, this provision could create legal difficulties, particularly if it was interpreted broadly. Secondly, the text already seeks to provide the Committee on Social Affairs with important investigative resources. For example, rapporteurs can obtain details of the provisions under review, by sending questionnaires to the State and social security funds or by asking them to submit documents.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u224	The rapporteur's amendment No 46 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u225	Amendment No 24 by Mrs Valérie Rabault is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u226	Amendments Nos 47 and 48 by the rapporteur are coordination amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u227	Amendment No 32 by Mrs Valérie Six is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u228	I put to the vote the whole of the organic bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u229	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 44 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 40 Against 4
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u230	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the proposed law on social security financing laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u231	The rapporteur's amendment No 2 is a co-ordination amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u232	The rapporteur's amendments Nos 3 and 4 are coordination amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u233	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u234	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u235	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u236	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs (No. 4338, 4708).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u237	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u238	I am pleased and proud to present the bill to authorize the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. The examination of this text is a strong signal of France's commitment to the defence of human rights, which guides both our national action and our international, and especially European, action. The President of the Republic strongly reaffirmed this before the European Parliament, making the preservation of human rights a key issue for the French Presidency of the European Union. As you know, organ trafficking is a practice of extreme gravity. This inhuman practice violates the fundamental principles of our law and our democratic model: human dignity and the principle of the non-patrimoniality of the human body. But if we strongly condemn and fight it resolutely, it continues to grow in the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 5 to 10 per cent of organ transplants worldwide result from organ trafficking, or nearly 15,000 transplants per year. The annual profits from this illicit activity would amount to an estimated $600 million to $1.2 billion per year. Most importantly, organ trafficking particularly affects vulnerable people. This was recalled in a report by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) published in 2020: vulnerable people, such as migrants, are the first victims of organised crime networks. These networks often operate in several countries and involve multiple actors, hence the need for an international and coordinated response to combat such trafficking. That is why France has made the fight against organ trafficking one of its priorities. Today we must redouble our efforts. With this in mind, the adoption of this bill by your assembly would therefore be a major step forward, and would strengthen France's international action in this area. At the international level, our country made a strong commitment, on 25 November 2019, while chairing the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, signing the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Trafficking in Human Organs, known as the Compostela Convention. France, together with the United States, also presented a resolution to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings – including organ trafficking – at the tenth conference of States parties to the Palermo Convention. At the European level, trafficking in human beings, including trafficking for the purpose of organ removal, was one of the thirteen priorities identified by the European Police Office (EUROPOL) for the European policy cycle to combat organised crime 2014-2017. Our country has worked to ensure that this priority is maintained in the 2018-2021 cycle. The convention that the Government is asking you to authorize it to ratify is a new tool for advancing our commitment to combating organ trafficking. First, it strengthens the criminal justice system dedicated to the international fight against organ trafficking by introducing new offences covering a broad spectrum of situations. It thus requires States parties to criminalize conduct such as the removal of organs without consent, or in return for profit or benefit, but also all acts upstream and downstream of the wrongful removal. Secondly, it introduces necessary protection and compensation measures for victims of organ trafficking. As such, it acts in particular upstream, ensuring equitable access to transplant services and raising public awareness of the illegal and dangerous nature of such trafficking. In addition, the Convention obliges States parties to ensure that victims have access to relevant information and are assisted in their recovery, and that they are compensated by offenders. These measures are new: to date, in France, there are no specific mechanisms for the protection of victims of organ trafficking. They have access to free and holistic care for all victims of criminal offences, provided by victim support associations funded by the Ministry of Justice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Thirdly, the Convention promotes international cooperation in criminal matters aimed specifically at combating trafficking in organs, which is deeply necessary because of the transnational nature of the phenomenon. This should ultimately enable the various actors involved in such trafficking to be apprehended, while helping to apprehend potential co-sponsors or accomplices, in some cases requesting their extradition and facilitating the freezing of their assets. For all these reasons, I am pleased and proud to present this bill to you: its passage would be a major step forward in the fight against organ trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u239	Mrs Ramlati Ali, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u240	Our Assembly is today debating the bill authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs of 25 March 2015, known as the Santiago de Compostela Convention, which entered into force in March 2018 and signed by France in November 2019. The main objective of the Convention is to contribute to the eradication of trafficking in human organs by preventing and combating this crime, which is a cross-border crime. It provides for the criminalization of a series of acts and includes an important component on the protection of victims of trafficking. It also aims to facilitate international cooperation to combat this global scourge. While the exact extent and scope of organ trafficking remains very difficult to estimate, the WHO estimates that 5% to 10% of organ transplants worldwide result from trafficking, or about 15,000 transplants per year. With the highest estimates of 4 million transplants per year, it is likely that the reality lies somewhere between these two levels. In the majority of cases, organ trafficking concerns the kidney. All tracks combined, they would generate between $600 million and $1.2 billion in profits per year, making it a particularly lucrative activity and thus difficult to combat. Furthermore, while organ trafficking may result from trafficking in human beings, the link is not systematic. The countries most affected by organ trafficking are those in which the transplant system is based primarily on the collection of live donors or in which the collection of dead donors is not sufficiently developed. These include India, Pakistan, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Egypt, Mexico, Cambodia and Sri Lanka. The presence of large migratory flows can also be a determining factor, as in the case of Egypt, Iraq or Syria. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the majority of victims of organ trafficking are male migrants, with an increasing number of victims coming from conflict-affected countries such as Syria, Iraq or Somalia. As you will have understood, organ trafficking is a scourge that is all the more reprehensible as it attacks the most vulnerable. Many abuses have also been reported in China in recent years: they concern illegal removals, particularly against minorities and political prisoners, and involve the authorities rather than mafia-like networks, as is mostly the case elsewhere in the world. Indeed, the channels of redistribution of unlawfully collected organs follow those of cross-border organised crime, in particular those of trafficking in human beings. Since the 1980s, there has also been the development of a transplant tourism, which usually involves nationals of developed countries travelling to a foreign country to buy an organ and benefit from a transplant. This phenomenon was condemned by WHO in the early 2000s, as well as in the Istanbul Declaration of 2008. The latter is one of the elements of the legal arsenal gradually established by the international community to combat organ trafficking. Indeed, while the convention we are interested in today is the first international legal instrument specifically devoted to organ trafficking, it completes a pre-existing edifice. These include the 2000 United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and its Additional Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, the 1997 Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine and its 2007 Additional Protocol on Transplantation of Organs and Tissues of Human Origin. In 2010, the WHO General Assembly adopted guidelines on the transplantation of human cells, tissues and organs, and stressed that governments are responsible for developing access to the transplant under satisfactory ethical conditions. The fight against organ trafficking is also a European issue. It is addressed in the fight against trafficking in human beings, while a common regulation on organ transplants has been drawn up. A directive on quality and safety standards for organs was adopted in 2010. In 2015 the Foedus platform was launched, which allows to connect European states so that bodies that have not found recipients in their country of origin are reoriented to other European countries. I would like to mention the existence of this platform, which reminds us that the development of transplants and transplants is not only a remarkable scientific and medical feat, but also a magnificent symbol of human solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u241	In France, a legal and operational system was developed several years ago to regulate organ donations, transplants and transplants and thereby prohibit and punish trafficking, which violates several fundamental legal principles of our law, such as human dignity, individual freedom or the non-patrimoniality of the human body. The Act of 29 July 1994, known as the Bioethics Act, enshrined the fundamental principles of organ donation: free, anonymous and free consent of the donor. It is clear from this monitoring that the number of people living in France and transplanted abroad is very low. They are most often persons of foreign origin who benefit in their country of origin from a transplant made from a related person, in accordance with the laws of the country in question. Although the needs of registered organs in France remain higher than the available quantities, French nationals are very little encouraged to resort to transplant tourism, as the guarantees provided by our health care system are high. At European level, the same is true: the surveys carried out by the Council of Europe attest to this. On the whole, French law is already in conformity with the provisions of the Convention. The Criminal Code punishes seven years' imprisonment and a fine of EUR 100000 for the removal of an organ from a living adult person without the consent of that person being obtained under the conditions laid down in the Public Health Code, as well as for obtaining from a person one of his organs for payment; it shall impose a penalty of two years' imprisonment and a fine of 30000 euros for taking samples for scientific purposes on a deceased person without complying with the protocol provided for in the Code of Public Health. As permitted by the Convention and in accordance with a classic procedure of international law, however, France had chosen to make reservations on certain points. In the first analysis, it might be feared that this would weaken the scope of the convention, but this risk seems to me to be relativized. It is indeed a matter of avoiding an incompatibility with certain fundamental provisions of our criminal law, namely the principle of double criminality and the rules of jurisdiction of French courts for persons having their habitual residence in France but having committed a crime abroad. France stated that in such cases it would exercise jurisdiction only in a limited manner with respect to the crimes covered by the Convention. These reservations, which will in no way weaken the very strong national machinery already in place in our country to combat organ trafficking, will, on the other hand, promote the accession of a large number of States to the Santiago de Compostela Convention. The latter, open for signature by non-members of the Council of Europe, is likely to constitute a global training force, despite the absence among signatory or potential signatory states of those considered to be critical points of international trafficking in human beings. I would add that our country's commitment to combating organ trafficking also depends on bilateral judicial cooperation in criminal matters, which this Convention encourages, and on the supervision of our scientific and academic partnerships, which must be carried out in compliance with France's international commitments. The Biomedicine Agency works in collaboration with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and diplomatic posts to promote the development of ethically supervised organ samples and transplants. This is a point on which we must remain very vigilant. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups]] In conclusion, I invite you to vote in favour of the bill to ratify this Convention, which attests to the ability of States to join forces to combat a particularly reprehensible global scourge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u242	In the general discussion, Mr Jean François Mbaye spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u243	Of all the criminal networks around the world, it is probably no more abject than those involved in organ trafficking. Indeed, there are not words strong enough to describe the feeling of disgust that a person may be deprived of his blood and flesh to satisfy an inhuman greed. However, as you have pointed out, it is considered that 5 to 10% of transplants carried out in the world are the result of this morbid trade fund, some 15,000 transplants and as many organs taken in disregard of the dignity and life of human beings. Behind this terrible observation, there is another equally terrible one: women and men driven by despair choose to use criminal channels to benefit from a transplant. When illness and death spread their empire, that of morality and ethics often declines in proportion. The confluence of these two realities is the specificity that makes trafficking in human organs a particularly atrocious criminal activity. It does not consist in satisfying an addiction to psychotropic substances, nor does it aim to satisfy the belligerent ambitions of a warlord by coming to enlarge his arsenal: no, ladies and gentlemen, it is nothing less than to monetize what we all have, the most precious of all, life. As I said during the examination of the ratification bill in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, France has constantly strengthened a legal framework based on national and international standards to combat this scourge. In particular, it is a party to the Oviedo Convention of 4 April 1997, which guarantees the protection of the dignity of every human being and echoes, as you pointed out, the rapporteur, Articles 16 et seq. of our Civil Code. In doing so, it chose to engrave these humanistic values both in the marble of treaties and in the marble of the law. Aware of the importance of inter-State cooperation in curbing trafficking that is often of an international dimension, France is also a party to treaties of an operational nature, such as the Palermo Convention against Transnational Organized Crime of November 2000. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to add a new stone to the normative structure. By allowing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, we will complete a range of instruments whose combination appears to be the only viable response to existing problems. If, of course, we must declare ourselves unambiguously against these odious practices, it is in vain to believe that individual initiatives will put an end to them when they take place outside our borders. Like many of the challenges we face globally, the fight against these crimes calls for a comprehensive and coordinated mobilization to neutralize every link in these criminal chains. In concrete terms, this obviously means arresting traffickers, but also reducing demand upstream, by making potential organ recipients aware of the risks they face by undergoing such transplants. To do so, cooperation is essential wherever possible. The ratification of the proposed Santiago de Compostela Convention will provide a solid legal basis and strengthen existing links in order to create new ones. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Convinced that postures are never effective and that only a pragmatic and resolute approach will contribute to the effective fight against organ trafficking, the moving Republic Group will therefore vote in favour of the bill authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u244	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u245	The international situation is of great concern. Unfortunately, the significant difference between the need for transplants and the much smaller number of organs available contributes to structurally fuelling international traffic. WHO estimates that between 5 and 15 per cent of transplants worldwide would result from international traffic, i.e. nearly 15,000 transplants. However, the highest estimates refer to 4 million transplants per year. These would generate between $600 million and $1.2 billion in annual profits. Several specific situations give rise to organ trafficking. These are areas of conflict where law does not exist, such as Iraq, Syria or Somalia. These are then countries of departure or transit of migratory flows such as Egypt, or States where the transplant system for live or deceased donors is not sufficiently developed, such as India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Mexico, the Philippines or Cambodia. Finally, in recent years, there have been many criticisms against a country, China, which is said to be responsible for the largest number of organ traffickings taken without consent from political or conscientious prisoners, including the Uighurs, whose situation we discussed last week. It should be noted that trafficking in human organs as such should be distinguished from trafficking in human beings whose purpose is, in part, organ trafficking. Nevertheless, the latter follows the same usual channels of cross-border crime. I thank the rapporteur for her enlightening presentation on a subject that is still sensitive. Moreover, it appears that the economic and social consequences of the health crisis have amplified the phenomenon in some countries particularly affected by poverty. This seems to be the case in some parts of India, where organ donation to pay debts is exploding. This was also the case in Nepal after the 2015 earthquake. Some refugee camps in the Indian subcontinent are also affected. I am also concerned about the increase in the phenomenon in Europe. I am grateful to you for the figures you have given us, Madam rapporteur. Therefore, it can only be positive that this project, opened in 2009 by the Council of Europe and the United Nations, has a legislative outcome. The Santiago de Compostela Convention, signed more than six years ago, came into force almost three years ago. Our diplomacy has had ample time to formulate the reservations you mentioned. However, its added value is not questionable. It is based on three main lines, listed in Article 1e r, which provides for the criminalization of a series of acts, the protection of victims, and aims to facilitate international cooperation to combat organ trafficking. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM, DEM and GDR groups]] For all these reasons, together with my colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, we will of course vote in favour of the bill authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u246	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u247	International trafficking in human organs for transplantation constitutes an attack on the dignity of the human person, on the non-patrimoniality of the human body and on individual freedom. WHO estimates that 5 to 10 per cent of organ transplants worldwide are the result of this practice, and illegal profits from the illicit trade in organs would range from $600 million to $1.2 billion per year. In 2009, the Council of Europe and the United Nations published a joint study on trafficking in organs, tissues and cells and trafficking in human beings for the purpose of organ removal, which recommended the development of an international legal instrument to establish a definition of trafficking in organs, tissues and cells and to set out measures to prevent, suppress and protect victims of such trafficking. In 2012, the Committee of Ministers established within the Council of Europe the Committee of Experts on Trafficking in Human Organs, Tissues and Cells and entrusted it with the task of drawing up a draft Convention on Criminal Law against Trafficking in Human Organs. The dignity of the human person, the non-patrimoniality of the human body and individual freedom are guaranteed by French law and international conventions. France, the country of the Declaration of Human Rights, must live up to the challenge. The convention before us is the result of a long work, opened by the joint report of the Council of Europe and the United Nations of 2009, which I referred to, continued by the Committee of Experts on Trafficking in Human Organs, Tissues and Cells, and culminating in the signing of this text on 25 March 2015 in Santiago de Compostela. This agreement endorses a clear and explicit definition of organ trafficking and related criminal offences; it imposes appropriate sanctions to punish the latter. In addition, it contains a number of procedural provisions aimed at enhancing the effectiveness and effectiveness of prosecutions and encouraging international cooperation in this field. With a global ambition, it aims to improve the punishment and prevention of trafficking, as well as the protection of victims and witnesses. This international agreement guarantees respect for the principles enshrined in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being in Respect of the Applications of Biology and Medicine, the Oviedo Convention, ratified by France in 2011. The agreement signed at Saint-Jacques-de-Compostelle, which had already entered into force, would not have any important normative consequences for France, which its legislation already placed at the forefront of the fight against organ trafficking. Nevertheless, it will enable it to be part of an international environment conducive to the prevention of this serious violation of human rights and reinforces our current commitments. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Therefore, we cannot dispense with passing this ratification bill by a large majority. The Group of the European People's Party will of course support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u248	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u249	Organ trafficking generally refers to any organ transaction outside national transplantation systems. Within the meaning of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, it is defined as the removal of an organ without free and informed consent from the donor in exchange for a comparable profit or benefit, or the use of unlawfully collected organs, or the solicitation and recruitment of a donor or organ recipient for a comparable benefit or benefit for the person seeking or recruiting or for a third person. Signed in Santiago de Compostela on 25 March 2015 and entered into force on 1 March 2018, the Council of Europe Convention aims to contribute significantly to the eradication of trafficking in human organs. It prevents and combats this crime, provides for the criminalization of a series of acts, ensures the protection of victims and facilitates international cooperation to combat this trafficking. While this is not the first international law instrument to address this issue, it is the first multilateral agreement specifically addressing the fight against organ trafficking. The Convention, drawn up within the framework of the Council of Europe, is open for signature by States which are not members of the Council of Europe. Trafficking in human organs is an extremely serious phenomenon. The will to eradicate it is the subject of a very broad consensus among the forty-seven member states of the Council of Europe and, far beyond that, on other continents. While the exact extent and scope of organ trafficking is difficult to estimate, the World Health Organization estimates between 5 and 10 per cent of the world's organ transplants resulting from trafficking, or about 15,000 transplants per year. The highest estimates refer to 4 million transplants per year. Their actual number is likely to be between these two figures. In the majority of cases, the traffic concerns the kidney. In all ways, organ trafficking would generate between $600 million and $1.2 billion in profits per year, making it a particularly lucrative activity and therefore difficult to combat. The countries most affected appear to be those in which the transplant system relies primarily on the removal of organs of living donors or where the device for the removal of organs of deceased donors is not sufficiently developed, such as India, Pakistan, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Egypt, Mexico, Cambodia or Sri Lanka. News has highlighted the fate of the Uighurs. Thanks to the work of the experts and the work of many non-governmental organizations (NGOs), we know that forced organ removals are involved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u250	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u251	The resolution adopted on Thursday 20 January allowed us to address this issue in the Chamber. The convention tends to fill an international legal vacuum. The adoption of such a text by the 193 members of the UN General Assembly would have been desirable, but Europe has taken the first step and this Convention is in any case open for signature by States that are not members of the Council of Europe and the European Union. It is regrettable, however, that to date only eleven States have ratified the Convention, with another fifteen having signed but not yet ratified it. As some colleagues in committee have said, France has expressed reservations. However, these focus on questions of competence and articulation with existing law. The French system for combating organ trafficking is robust. However, ratification of the Convention and other measures can usefully complement the framework for organ donation and transplantation, in order to effectively suppress all trade in organ donation and transplantation. I am thinking in particular of the proposal for a law to ensure ethical respect for organ donation by our non-European partners, which we will be debating next week. While the Government will soon fulfil its commitment to ratify the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, we believe that these two initiatives are complementary. Our country must be exemplary and solemnly ratify this convention, launching a movement that we hope will be followed. One of the major assets of this first international agreement specifically devoted to combating trafficking in human organs is to send a clear signal that could have a global training force, despite the lack of binding commitment on the part of States identified as the main hotspots of international trafficking in human organs. The IDU and independent group will therefore vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u252	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u253	France signed in 2019 the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, the Compostela Convention, whose main fundamental principles have been recalled by all. We can only welcome this ratification; But what we are silent about is the importance of the reservations made by France when the convention was signed. I will give you only one example, which is edifying. The Convention provides that each party shall take the necessary measures not to condition the initiation of proceedings. In order to avoid an incompatibility with a provision of our criminal law which prohibits double criminality, France has declared that it will exercise its jurisdiction only on condition that the acts are also punished by the legislation of the country in which they were committed, and that they have given rise either to a complaint by the victim or his successors, or to an official denunciation by the authorities of the country in question. Many of you have come yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to listen to the testimonies of researchers, lawyers and a survivor of the so-called rehabilitation camps in the heart of the People's Republic of China.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u254	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u255	No one can now conceive that a prisoner of conscience or a Uighur who had been taken from organs without his consent would file a complaint in his country or that this act would be denounced by China. The four reservations made by France clearly show that it does not wish to assume all its responsibilities, while twenty of the twenty-six States that have signed the Convention have not made any reservations and other countries have taken a moral duty to amend their domestic law upstream. This is particularly the case in Spain, which is also a model for combating violence against women. During the examination of this text in committee on 23 November 2021, you stressed, Madam rapporteur, that one of the major assets of this first international agreement specifically devoted to the fight against trafficking in human organs is to send a clear signal that can have a global training force. In your view, the possibility of reservations will allow more States to join it; You have also acknowledged the lack of binding commitments on the part of States identified as the main hotspots of international trafficking in human organs. More reservations and fewer constraints had to ensure more signatures, but only 26 countries signed the convention out of 193 members of the United Nations! Is that the objective that had to be displayed a few weeks before the presidential election? The most glaring proof that words are disconnected from acts and acts disconnected from the ground is the situation in the People's Republic of China. The evidence has been accumulating for 20 years. On 31 January 2020, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution recommending, inter alia, that States Parties exercise "a high degree of caution with regard to cooperation with the China Organ Transplant Response System [...] and the Chinese Red Cross". On 14 June 2021, UN experts acknowledged that they were very alarmed by credible reports, in their terms, on the practice of forced organ removal in China of prisoners from ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities – Uighurs, Kazakhs, Kyrgyzstan, Tibetans and Falun Gong. For the past 20 years, many scientific and medical cooperation agreements have been concluded with French health and research institutions with China. While these conventions most often explicitly mention the obligation to comply with French and international laws and regulations, there is no concrete and effective tool to verify the effectiveness of this commitment and no obligation to challenge these conventions in the event of China's refusal of transparency. I therefore tabled in September 2020 a bill, co-signed by nearly seventy Members, aimed at ensuring that our non-European partners respect our ethical principles, which obliges our hospitals and research centres to an effective and concrete duty of vigilance. During the committee's consideration of the ratification of the Compostela Convention on 31 March 2021, our colleague Jean-François Mbaye confessed, saying he was sorry, that he had helped "torpedo" my bill during its consideration, calling to reject it by means of deletion amendments co-signed by the whole of the La République group on the move, that is, almost 300 Members, including those who had co-signed the bill. Yesterday, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at the round table on the situation of the Uighurs, you all asked yourself: what should we do to stop the worst, to stop crimes against humanity? You will be given the opportunity to act, in conscience, on February 4. [[Applause on the SOC and IUD-I benches, as well as on some of the Dem benches]] The Liberties and Territories Group will of course vote in favour of this ratification. However, we can no longer say that we do not know: it is more than time to take action.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u256	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u257	Choosing to donate one of its organs is a deeply altruistic and humanistic act. Whether you know the person you need or don't know, you allow them to continue to live or to live better. Giving an organ is an extremely personal decision, a thoughtful and informed choice for others. In France, we can congratulate ourselves, this gesture is free and anonymous, in accordance with the very notion of gift. Article 16-6 of the Civil Code provides that "no remuneration may be awarded to a person who is suitable for experimentation with his person, for the removal of parts of his body or for the collection of products from him". If this act is subject to pressure or blackmail, is exercised against the will of the person or is the result of an exchange of goods or money, then we can no longer speak of a gift: it is a forced levy. In our country, organ donation is subject to a strict and highly supervised protocol. Either the deceased person has made known his wills, or it is up to his family to decide. In all cases, the sampling cannot be carried out without informed consent. Unfortunately, there are many situations where the ethics surrounding donation are not respected. For example, criminal organizations have made forced removal a fruitful market for abominable practices: abductions of children to collect organs from their bodies, payment of money to buy the silence of families, removal of organs from people living in poverty in return for money. These mafias use the most demeaning and barbaric maneuvers to get what they want. In many cases, these operations are carried out in sanitary and hygiene conditions that are dangerous to the victim. The low availability of organs compared to patients on hold makes this black market unfortunately lucrative. On the other hand, heavy suspicions exist about practices of forced organ removal by some States from members of oppressed groups: we cannot tolerate it. The Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, which is being presented to us today, is therefore trying to impose more uniform legislation to regulate organ donation at the international level. While we welcome this necessary initiative, we would like to share with you some of our questions. Indeed, this Convention was signed in 2015 and entered into force in 2018; France only signed it in 2019: why such an expectation on such an important subject, affecting human dignity and integrity? On the other hand, the ratification of this convention takes place only in 2022, one and a half months from the end of the legislature: why did we need two more years to examine it in the sitting? Since the convention establishing the removal of organs as an aggravating circumstance, does our country intend to make forced removal of organs an aggravating circumstance in order to comply strictly with that convention? Finally, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum to the draft ratification that France has made reservations to certain articles of the Convention. I have taken note of your clarifications in committee, Madam rapporteur; However, I wonder whether we should not go beyond the ratification of this Convention, particularly to countries that do not respect it. Perhaps we should suspend certain cooperation, agreements or contracts and give ourselves the means to verify that there are no practices in these countries which are incompatible with our legislation: it is simply a question of not being complicit in the acts we denounce. We need transparency on these issues, which are increasingly echoed in public opinion. Citizens seized this subject, demonstrating a growing interest in a human rights issue and respect for the dignity of everyone. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Convinced of the need to strengthen the ethics surrounding organ donation in order to protect the possible victims of a terrible practice, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left hoped that clarification would be given to the issues raised and would vote in favour of the ratification of that Convention.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u258	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u259	The Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, which we are considering this morning, is the first dedicated legal instrument, which strengthens the legal arsenal to guarantee the protection of human rights and the dignity of people. While organ trafficking is a well-known phenomenon, it remains difficult to quantify. The WHO estimates that 5 to 10% of transplants in the world today come from this traffic, which generates hundreds of millions of euros of illegal profits annually. It primarily concerns poor countries – India, Pakistan, Egypt, Bangladesh and Mexico – where transplants are mainly made from live donor samples. It is also intimately linked to migratory flows, as traffickers feed on poverty and attack the most vulnerable: according to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the majority of victims are migrants. The pandemic has also led to an upsurge in this phenomenon due to the impoverishment of populations. To combat illicit trafficking in organs, various means have been implemented, both at national and international level – I am thinking of the United Nations Convention on Organised Crime of 2000, or the 1997 Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, which do not, however, take into account the specificities of organ trafficking. In view of the existing legal gaps and the need to create a binding international legal instrument to address them, an Expert Committee on Trafficking in Human Organs, Tissues and Cells was established in 2012 within the Council of Europe. From its work was born the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, signed in 2015 in Santiago de Compostela. The latter strengthens the international legal framework to combat organ trafficking in order to ensure the overall security of the transplant system. In this regard, it criminalizes illegal acts of trafficking in human organs and provides for measures to protect and compensate victims, as well as preventive measures to ensure transparency and equitable access to the transplant service. The Convention is the first multilateral agreement specifically aimed at combating organ trafficking. Open to all countries wishing to do so, it must encourage the consolidation of a legally coordinated and resolutely committed international movement against this phenomenon. In France, our law is already in conformity with the provisions of the Convention. The fight against trafficking in organs is reflected in the establishment of public prevention policies, led in particular by the Agency for Biomedicine, which carries out annual awareness-raising campaigns. In view of the importance of this struggle, France took the opportunity of the French Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to sign the Convention on 25 November 2019; We are now called upon to allow its ratification, and we are of course in favour of it. However, work must continue, as the Convention has so far been ratified by only eleven states, while all countries in the world – the first of which, of course, China – must be involved. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] While the WHO estimates that more than 10,000 illicit transplants are carried out each year, migrants and children are the main victims of trafficking, the aim is to protect the most vulnerable from these inhumane practices. That is why the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote in favour of the adoption of this bill, which allows the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u260	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u261	The considerable progress made in medicine in recent decades has led to a significant increase in organ transplants. After the first cardiac transplant in Europe, performed by Professor Cabrol in April 1968, these transplants save and prolong lives every day. It is therefore easy to understand the stakes which they can represent, in the first place for the sick, for their families and for the medical profession, but also, of course, for unscrupulous and criminal people or organisations, who see this as a significant source of income. According to the Agency for Biomedicine, in 2019, 5,900 transplants – 3643 kidney transplants, but only 384 heart transplants – were performed in France, including 533 from live donors. However, the number of patients waiting for an organ is almost four times higher than the number of transplants performed, due to a shortage of organs that is not unique to France. In this tense context, forced removals and various organ trafficking are taking place, while transplant tourism is developing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u262	It's very serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u263	This has been stressed by our rapporteur, whom I thank for her informative report: WHO estimates the proportion of transplants carried out in the world with organs derived from trafficking at 5 to 10 per cent, i.e. around 15,000 transplants per year. Other figures indicating more massive quantities are circulating, but it is difficult to verify them. On the other hand, we know that a majority of these transplants concern the kidney and that the intense migratory flows we know accelerate the growth of this traffic. According to WHO, it would unfortunately raise nearly $1.2 billion. As you can see, this is a particularly topical issue. The agenda of our assembly shows this, since in less than fifteen days we must be seized twice of the subject of organ transplants: today, through this convention which we are about to ratify, but also on 4 February next, on the day of the Freedom and Territories Group, with the proposal for a law by our colleague Frédérique Dumas to guarantee ethical respect for organ donation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, LT, SOC and GDR groups]] The Republican Group will support these two texts, which we consider to be complementary, in part because of the various reservations that our country made when it signed this Compostela Convention. These reservations make it difficult for people involved in transplant tourism and organ trafficking to be brought before the French justice system, although this is a minimum to combat this scourge. However, the convention is a first step, and the Group of the Republicans, which is very committed to France's example of bioethics, will of course vote in favour of its ratification.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u264	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u265	On 20 January, our Assembly adopted a resolution denouncing the genocide of the Uighurs, a people persecuted, martyred, murdered and even sold organs to fuel the very flourishing business of organ trafficking – in short, a horror!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u266	What a scandal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u267	In India, the health crisis has had the perverse effect of forcing the poorest to come to the unthinkable, to survive: to sell one of their organs. 50,000 Indian rupees, or 566 euros, is the sum of money that a resident of a village in northeastern India received for selling his kidney to the black market. The local authorities finally arrested the macabre brokers, who promised between 400,000 and 600,000 rupees to the most needy to convince them to give an organ to a private clinic. Afghanistan is not left behind. As the country worsens, since the departure of the United States and the capture of Kabul by the Taliban last August, some people sell kidneys or children to avoid starvation. However, since the advent of these fools of Allah, prices and conditions of sale have changed: in the past, a kidney was traded between 3,500 and 4000 dollars, today it is worth 1500 dollars. It is the law of supply and demand and, under extreme poverty, the number of sellers is constantly increasing. Far from being isolated, this phenomenon is planetary. Each year, 5 to 10% of the world's transplants are reported to be carried out illegally, representing between 7500 and 13,000 organs, with annual revenues ranging from $840 million to $1.7 billion, according to the NGO Global Financial Integrity. These figures are all the more chilling because they have to be compared with the immense hope of many sick people, whose lives are tied to a thread. In France, nearly 24,000 people are waiting for an organ transplant, with an average waiting period of three years. It is obviously too long: in the meantime, the condition of some patients is deteriorating so much that they can no longer receive a transplant, and because of this delay, 500 to 600 patients die each year because they have not been able to benefit from the long-awaited transplant. In the face of a shortage of organs, science opens up opportunities for us. Just two weeks ago, it was reported that an American patient had just received a genetically modified pork heart. The 57-year-old is the first human being whose life could have been saved by a xenotransplantation, the transplant of an organ from a living being of another species. This exploit obviously raises a myriad of ethical questions, far from being resolved, and we will have to quickly put the terms of this new debate. Today, it is proposed that our Assembly ratify the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, adopted on 25 March 2015, signed by France in Strasbourg on 25 November 2019, the text of which is annexed to this bill. Despite certain reservations made by France on some articles of the Convention, concerning the scope of the attempt to commit certain offences covered by the Convention and the territorial scope of French criminal law when an offence is committed abroad, this international agreement remains a small step forward. In the order of the symbol, it must be admitted, since it is difficult to satisfy the obligation of signatory States to criminalize or consider criminalizing certain conduct such as the illicit removal of human organs, the use of organs collected illegally for implantation or other purposes, or the illicit solicitation or recruitment of a donor or organ recipient. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat and Ms Sereine Mauborgne also applaud]] But, you'll tell me, it's better than nothing. I hope that the amendments that I have tabled – for greater efficiency – on the bill to ensure ethical respect for organ donation by our non-European partners, which we will discuss next week, will have your benevolence. Indeed, let us not be fooled: despite the progress made in ratifying the Council of Europe Convention, it will not solve everything. The trafficking of organs is far from dying, and since this convention will not be ratified by most of the countries involved, the merchants of misfortune unfortunately have good days before them. In short, much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u268	The general discussion is closed. With regard to the single clause of the bill, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u269	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u270	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u271	On 20 January, the chairman of the La République en marche, Christophe Castaner, explained in this Chamber that the adoption of the motion for a resolution recognizing the genocide perpetrated against the Uighur people was the task of delivering a political message here at the heart of the Republic. He added, however, that it was a matter of doing so without denouncing a State as a whole and without pointing a finger at it, tragically implying that it was neither a matter of stopping genocide nor of condemning the perpetrators. The day before yesterday, the President of the National Assembly deeply dishonored himself by withdrawing from the agenda a motion for a resolution on legal grounds calling on the Government to rely on the only legal mechanism that could compel a State to act in order to prevent acts of genocide. When asked this morning by an listener on France Inter, Mr Richard Ferrand simply lied and made insulting and ridiculous remarks about me. I'll have an opportunity to answer him. Yesterday we received the letter from the Prime Minister, who indirectly confirms that France will not diplomatically boycott the opening of the Olympic Games. We now understand that there will be a French minister in Beijing that day. Today, on the occasion of the ratification of the Compostela Convention, whose limits we have seen, the minister delegate, with his hand on his heart, has given a long description of what constitutes a crime against humanity. We thus arrive at the end of a legislature that has never taken the measure of what is happening more than 10,000 kilometres from home, in the heart of the People's Republic of China, other than words. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has also diplomatically boycotted our House on 20 January, and still today. There is still time to open your eyes, to stop denial and indifference, to take our responsibilities and to act, Minister Delegate. I therefore invite you to be present in the Chamber on 4 February and to vote on the proposal for a law to guarantee the ethical respect of organ donation by our non-European partners, which will introduce an effective and concrete duty of vigilance into our law. This is not about interference, it is about our own sovereignty, whether or not to conclude bilateral cooperation agreements with other countries and to give them up when they involve our fundamental principles: respect for the dignity and integrity of the human person, our model of law and democracy. Our group will of course vote in favour of this ratification. But without concrete action, we know that we will never influence reality. We cannot say that we do not know; We risk indirectly complicit in the worst. I will give you an appointment on 4 February in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u272	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u273	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 38 Number of votes cast 38 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 38 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u274	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, authorizing the approval of the amendment to the Convention between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Argentine Republic of 4 April 1979 to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and on capital (No. 4044, 4920).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u275	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u276	On 6 December 2019, France and Argentina signed an amendment to the Convention of 4 April 1979 to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and on capital, already amended by an amendment dated 15 August 2001. This Convention lays down the rules for the distribution of the right to impose between France and Argentina. Its purpose is to eliminate double taxation which may result from the application of national tax laws on the different categories of income it covers. The Convention needed to be updated in order to take account of certain specific features of French legislation and to allow taxpayers to benefit from a withholding tax ceiling lower than those currently provided for in the Convention. The conclusion of this amendment is part of an excellent bilateral relationship that invests in many areas. Thus, the political dialogue between our two countries has developed considerably in recent years, as evidenced by the visits of President Alberto Fernández to France in February 2020 and May 2021, as well as the regular talks between foreign ministers. Our relationship in multilateral fora, where Argentina is our ally on many issues, is also dense, as illustrated by our cooperation on human rights and gender equality. In particular, in 2021 it resulted in a common commitment within the coalition on sexual and reproductive rights and health launched at the Génération Equality Forum. At the economic and commercial level, the French presence in Argentina is very diverse, with 220 companies representing nearly 68,000 jobs; Despite the challenges associated with the current economic and financial situation, it has an important potential which the amendment to the tax convention proposed for your approval will further develop. I would now like to present to you the progress that has been made in concluding this amendment. First of all, in line with France's objective, this amendment reduces the conventional withholding rates on interest, dividends, royalties and gains resulting from the sale of shares. This reduction of the conventional ceilings will benefit the French Treasury, under which the amount of the Argentine tax to be eliminated will be reduced. Given the asymmetry in investment flows, which translates into a strong presence of French companies in Argentina, the lowering of these rates plays a mechanical role in favour of our economic interests. He will also be in favour of our companies. The amendment then incorporates a broad-ranging most-favoured-nation clause. This clause guarantees France the automatic benefit of the lower rates that Argentina could grant to other partners in terms of passive income – interest, dividends, royalties – capital gains, income from independent professions or stable establishments. It also helps to combat tax evasion patterns when transferring real estate through trusts or trusts. The amendment also clarifies the scope of taxable royalties in Argentina by preventing the imposition in Argentina of ordinary services rendered by French companies without recourse to a permanent establishment on the spot. Finally, it adds a clause allowing the exemption of taxes in the state of exercise of the activity of wages paid to international volunteers abroad. This is a clause desired by France and conforms to what it usually negotiates in its conventions. In exchange for these advances, France has accepted the inclusion of a clause on permanent establishments, i.e. a taxable basis, in the absence of any physical installation, provided that an undertaking provides services in a State for a period of more than one hundred and eighty-three days in a year. It is present in almost all of the conventions signed by Argentina, as well as in numerous tax treaties concluded by France. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I would like to stress the important progress made in updating the tax convention, which will facilitate and strengthen our economic and commercial cooperation with a leading partner in Latin America. These are the main observations called for by the amendment to the Convention between France and Argentina of 4 April 1979 in order to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and on capital, which is the subject of the draft law proposed for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u277	The next speaker is Mr Didier Quentin, alternate Mr Nicolas Forissier, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u278	Let me apologize to our colleague Nicolas Forissier, the rapporteur of the bill, who is in contact with the covid-19. The Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted on 19 January the draft law authorizing the approval of the amendment to the tax convention between France and Argentina. This amendment was signed at the end of 2019, after a single round of negotiations. It amends the 1979 tax convention between our two countries, which has so far been amended only once in 2001. It is now up to our assembly, sitting in open session, to authorize the approval of this agreement. It is an opportunity for us to recall and reaffirm the very old ties that unite us with Argentina. Let us not forget that Argentina was a land of emigration for many French, to the point that the city of Buenos Aires could be called "the Paris of Latin America". Between 1880 and 1910, nearly 250,000 French emigrated to Argentina. Let us also remember that in 2014, Argentina celebrated with great enthusiasm the fiftieth anniversary of the visit of General de Gaulle. Another example of our cultural proximity, more than 700 university agreements bind our two countries, including a mutual recognition agreement signed in 2015. Our approaches are highly converging at the political level, whether on multilateralism, nuclear non-proliferation, the environment or the promotion of human rights and gender equality. Bilateral visits and talks at the ministerial and presidential levels have particularly intensified in recent years. This cultural and political proximity is coupled with close economic exchanges. About 220 French subsidiaries representing 160 different groups are located in Argentina, where they employ nearly 68,000 employees. The French presence is significant in sectors such as agri-food, automotive, hydrocarbon production, distribution, tourism and hospitality, health, cosmetics or transport, with groups such as Carrefour, Casino, Renault, Total, Orange, Danone or L'Oréal. This presence is not limited to large groups: many French SMEs are located in Argentina, but also very small companies and individual entrepreneurs who see our cultural and historical proximity as an asset. Argentina is often perceived by them as a base or a springboard for the second phase of projecting towards other Latin American countries. French companies are launching large-scale projects on site: e.g. the project of the company Eramet to produce lithium carbonate in the province of Salta, whose phase 2, suspended in February 2020, restarted in November 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u279	The establishment of Argentine companies in France is, on the other hand, more modest, since only two of them have so far formed subsidiaries. Of course, and this is a matter of concern, French investment in Argentina, as well as France's exports to Argentina, has been falling sharply for several years. Nevertheless, Argentina remains a very important economic partner for us. Our trade balance vis-à-vis it is still our fourth surplus in Latin America and our thirty-fifth surplus in the world. It is therefore important that we maintain and develop these political and economic ties with Argentina, especially as the country faces decisive challenges. It still recorded more than 50% of inflation in 2021 and has to conclude an agreement with the IMF – the International Monetary Fund – to refinance and reschedule a $44 billion debt, following a loan made in 2018 by the previous government. To avoid default, this agreement must be concluded before March 2022. The country also faces a delicate health situation. The population, although largely vaccinated, is facing a new wave of contamination. The ruling government coalition was weakened by its defeat in the mid-term elections of November 14, 2021, which renewed half of the deputies and one third of the senators. Argentina is therefore a somewhat fragile country, with which, more than ever, France must stand. Given our long-standing economic ties and the strong presence of French companies in Argentina, it was as early as 1979 that a tax treaty was concluded between our two countries. This Convention has remained almost unchanged for more than forty years, except for the limited amendment of 15 August 2001. It is still in force today. It therefore deserved to be modernized. Indeed, our respective laws and economic structures have evolved in four decades; tax treaties have also been concluded with other states, which sometimes include benefits or clauses that were not provided for in the 1979 Convention. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to take account of these developments and to adapt, where necessary, the text of the Convention. The agreement reached by both sides is balanced. The amendment first foresees a significant decrease from the 1979 figures in the limits of the withholding rates levied by the source State on passive income paid to a resident of the other State. The aim is to provide France with levels comparable to those already obtained by the other major European countries. The reduction of these withholding rates on dividends, interest, royalties and capital gains will be of interest to our country, since it is essentially a State of residence in its relations with Argentina. Lowering these rates will at the same time make Argentina more attractive to French companies and encourage them to invest more and create jobs. With regard to fees, the amendment provides, at the request of Argentina, for a system of rates differentiated according to the type of fee. France has also negotiated a clarification of the scope of the revenues included in these fees, excluding remuneration for services which rely only on the provider's usual know-how. A most-favoured-nation clause has also been inserted. From the date of signature of the amendment, France will automatically benefit from the more favourable treatment that Argentina would be able to grant to another State, in terms of passive income and capital gains, but also from income from independent professions or stable establishments. In return, France accepted Argentina's request for a mechanism for the recognition of "permanent establishment of services". Such an establishment will be recognized, in the absence of any physical installation in Argentina, if a company provides services for one or more periods of more than 183 days in a year. There will be a source of tax revenue for Argentina, the impact of which, however, is expected to remain moderate for French companies. Another very important point was the inclusion of a clause on international corporate volunteers (IEVs) abroad in the amendment. It provides for the exemption of VIEs from tax on their wages in the State of exercise of their activity. This clause is now systematically proposed by France in the conventions and tax amendments it negotiates. It is an additional attractiveness factor for this device to which many of us are very attached. The number of VIEs in Argentina has been quite high in recent years. After almost reaching 60, it unfortunately fell back to very low levels, mainly due to the crisis of the covid. However, it is expected to increase again in the coming months, and the exemption scheme provided for in this amendment will contribute to this. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the end, therefore, the agreement reached appears to be generally balanced and beneficial for both parties, as evidenced by the rapid conclusion of the negotiations which prepared it: both countries will win. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has voted for the adoption of the bill authorizing its approval. Of course, the Republican Group will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u280	In the general debate, Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u281	I thought that we would only examine this international convention at 15.00. You will therefore excuse me not to read a written text, but to improvise my speech – I have still read the convention, Minister Delegate. Today we are considering several international conventions, including those between France and Argentina, between France and Mauritius, and between France and Qatar. It looks like a preliminary World Cup round! If I choose this image, it is because football is not entirely outside of it, especially with regard to the convention with Qatar, and because I recognize the weakness of my knowledge of the relations between Argentina and France – dear Didier Quentin, you are much stronger than me on this point. I have a few ideas about these. I am thinking of the Exocet missile affair, which has unfortunately shown the effectiveness of the French arms industry in a deadly way. Our relations with Argentina are not marked by any territorial claims on either side – this is not the case with Mauritius, which we will be discussing this afternoon. This weekend, my granddaughter offered to help me prepare for my intervention. We entered the search for "France-Argentina relations" on Wikipedia. The first twenty pages of results relate to football or rugby matches between the two countries. As for the page "Relations between Argentina and France", Wikipedia tells us that almost all of its sections are "empty". I therefore thank you all the more, Mr rapporteur, for clarifying the state of our relations with this country. Indeed, they are disproportionate. While 250 French companies have subsidiaries in Argentina, only two Argentine companies have subsidiaries in France. Our trade agreements with this country are outdated, ridiculous. This agreement goes in the right direction, as long as the French Treasury needs money; He'll benefit from it. Furthermore, we will benefit from the most-favoured-nation clause, which means, I believe, that we will be in a situation equivalent to that of Argentina's closest trading partners. It's a great thing. [[Smile]] [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] This convention is good for both our countries; It is essential, even. Even if, in order to take up my football image, I will not say that it was expected as Messi – or the Messiah – the Socialist and related group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u282	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u283	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u284	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u285	Indeed, dear colleague, relations between France and Argentina go far beyond the transfer of Lionel Messi to Paris Saint-Germain! As a member of the G20 faced with difficult challenges, Argentina is a major partner of France in Latin America and its fourth largest trading partner in the region. Close political, economic and cultural relations have historically united the two countries. This proximity is manifested by the establishment of many French companies in Argentina, where they are particularly dynamic. Argentina, with a population of more than 45 million, is the twenty-fifth largest economy in the world and the third largest in Latin America, after Brazil and Mexico. Today, it faces major economic challenges, which are further complicated by the covid-19 pandemic and the political fragility of the government in place. Thus, approval of this tax amendment appears to be useful in two respects. The tax relations between France and Argentina are governed by an old convention, dated 4 April 1979, which entered into force in 1981 and amended by an amendment of 15 August 2001. Its purpose is to organize the distribution of the right to tax between France and Argentina in respect of income tax and property tax and to eliminate double taxation which may result from the application of French and Argentine legislation. First of all, the 1979 tax convention must be modernised in order to bring it into line with the standards contained in similar agreements concluded by Argentina with other countries and to take account of developments in French law. Then the present amendment appears interesting for both parties. Argentina has concluded more advantageous non-double taxation agreements with other States than the 1979 Franco-Argentine Convention. These agreements set limits for withholding tax on passive income that are lower than those provided for in the agreements. The reduction in the rates of the tax ceiling at source of dividends, interest, royalties and capital gains will benefit French companies and economic actors, whose competitive position in Argentina will be strengthened, on the one hand, and the French Treasury, on the other. The amount of Argentine tax to be eliminated will indeed be reduced, increasing in proportion French tax revenues. Moreover, in a context of asymmetry in investment flows – French companies are strongly present in Argentina, while Argentine investments in France are of lesser importance – the lowering of these rates plays a role in favour of France's economic interests. [[Sophie Mette applauds]] Argentina will benefit from a system of recognition of "permanent establishment of services" for certain companies and taxation of the activity concerned. Thus, this Convention is part of a context of strengthening bilateral cooperation and affirmation of common ambitions between France and Argentina. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote in favour of the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u286	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u287	The amendment to the Convention of 4 April 1979 between France and Argentina is the result of a request by France to adjust the ceilings for withholding tax rates at the source of tax administrations in order to reduce the cost of investment by French companies in Argentina compared to that in force in the countries neighbouring Latin America. France is very active in Argentina, a country that remains an important partner for it. Our trade balance vis-à-vis it represents our thirty-fifth global surplus and remains the fourth largest in Latin America. It is therefore essential that we improve the conditions of our economic relationship. As we have seen in committee, this agreement represents a real gain for the French Treasury, as the amount of tax collected abroad will decrease. It will improve France's trade balance, which is positive with Argentina, with a surplus of 225 million euros in 2019 and 1.88 billion direct investment abroad. While the record is positive with this country, it is, on the other hand, poor at the global level. For the year 2021, the trade deficit amounted to more than 77.6 billion. The French trade balance has a historical and, to say the least, worrying deficit. The Government attributed this mainly to the rise in oil prices, while the effect of its energy policy — to say the least, fluctuating — could be seen. In fact, the health crisis and the rising cost of energy raw materials are just a few factors. We are always happy with the good figures, but we must also note the bad ones: this quinquennium has been detrimental to public finances; It was also for our balance of trade. These are facts. Worse still, France has gradually lost its status as an agri-food power; Its agricultural and agri-food trade balance reached its lowest in 2020 in 20 years. In 2019, it was for the first time negative with our European neighbours. Again, the results are bad. I'm closing this parenthesis to get back on the next one. It has a real interest, as source levies on dividends, interest, royalties and gains from capital transfers will decrease. This will also encourage the development of major industrial projects promoted by companies, such as Air Liquide, which, I hope, will also have repercussions in our territory, particularly in the field of renewable energies and the ecological transition. We are pleased that the agreement reached by both sides is balanced. Finally, France will collect a little more and the French Treasury will recover money. In addition, French companies present in Argentina will now be on an equal footing with companies in other countries, notably Italy and Germany, which benefited from more advantageous clauses. The IDU and independent group is therefore in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u288	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u289	Although its scope seems limited, the text we are about to vote on will affect nearly 250 French companies in Argentina, totalling 50,000 jobs. When we consider these issues, we can understand how much this change is expected. Our fiscal relationship with Argentina dates back a little. The first convention was concluded in 1979 – more than forty years ago – and the last was adopted twenty years ago. An update was therefore needed to overcome the flaws of these somewhat obsolete stipulations. The Freedom and Territory Group fully supports the desire to strengthen the economic partnership between the two States. We know that this is a French diplomatic initiative: the stakes are obviously more important for France, the French economic presence in Argentina being much more significant than the Argentine presence in France. I come to the heart of the difficulties that led to the conclusion of this agreement. The main problem in the current provisions is the very high withholding rates for dividends, interest, royalties and gains from the sale of shares. These rates weigh directly on French companies. In committee, the rapporteur has described the situation very well: these levels are primarily due to the long-standing nature of the convention. Meanwhile, Argentina has concluded more advantageous agreements with other countries to which it is historically linked – Germany and Italy in particular. The resulting tax burden weighs heavily on French companies compared to European competitors. The amendment subject to our approval will give a significant boost to French companies located in Argentine territory. This reduction in source deductions should positively rebalance competitive positions. Our group also takes note of the extension of the withholding tax arrangements applicable to dividends to capital gains. This is a tax advance requested by many French negotiators. Moreover, the inclusion of a most-favoured-nation clause will automatically guarantee the most favourable treatment that Argentina would be able to grant to one of its partners. So it's a pledge over time. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will have understood, this is all very positive, and we have a right to take a positive look at this issue. However, uncertainty persists as to the consequences and outcome of this agreement. In committee, my colleague Jean-Michel Clément reiterated his concern about the date of entry into force of the amendment. We must be realistic: the economic relations between the two countries are asymmetrical and this renovation of the 1979 Convention will benefit mainly France. In other words, Argentina is not making much money on this issue. It is therefore not surprising to read in the impact statement that the Government is still unaware of the status of the internal ratification procedure on the Argentine side, even though the amendment was signed in 2019. Perhaps it would be appropriate to obtain some clarification. In committee, the rapporteur has also informed us of his uncertainties in this regard. Argentina is negotiating with the IMF and must reach an agreement on its debt before March 2022. In this difficult period for public finances, the Argentine State could be reluctant to ratify this amendment, which implicitly acts a decrease in its tax revenues. Our group would also like to alert the Government on one last point. Deputy Minister, counterparties are always inevitable in such negotiations; It's kind of the game of diplomacy. The Government has made the choice of partially divestment on the taxation of permanent establishments of services, requested by Argentina. If we understand this concession, we must not neglect the administrative weight, and to a lesser extent tax, of this clause on part – almost 12% – of French companies located in Argentina. In concrete terms, it would probably be good to anticipate in order to be able to accompany them. Apart from these few requests for clarification, the Libertés et territoires group will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u290	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u291	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left welcomes the holding of a debate on this amendment to the tax convention between France and Argentina. Far from being a purely technical subject, driven only by the desire to prohibit double taxation and to modernise the 1979 agreement, the amendment falls within an important political dimension, a policy that we are fighting against. Our reasoning is clear. If the roles were reversed, if the asymmetry of this agreement was in our favour, as it is for Argentina, then we would oppose it. Thus, in the name of our conception of bilateral relations, of our solidarity with the peoples, we oppose such an agreement against Argentina. She is the victim of this race at least so-called, from this hunt to any tax on royalties and dividends, which causes the drying up of her public finances and causes harmful consequences for her people. The amendment allows for a reduction of the taxes of French companies in Argentina, in an unequal situation between the two countries. While there are 220 subsidiaries of French companies in Argentina, only two companies in this country have subsidiaries in France. Article 2 provides that the withholding rate on dividends shall increase from 15 % to 10 %. Article 5 limits the taxation applicable in the source State on the gains realized on the sale of the capital of a company. The maximum withholding rate at source is set at 10 per cent or 15 per cent, as appropriate. Yes, it's a gain for the French Treasury and you're going to tell me that it promotes French investment in Argentina, that is to say jobs in the country, and that's great news for Argentina. But how can we rejoice at an agreement that is presented as clearly to the advantage of France when we are aware of the financial strangulation that Argentina has been experiencing for decades? The debt that weighs so much on Argentines, the incessant restructuring plans, the threats of cessation of payment: who pays the consequences without having to be responsible for it? The Argentine people, especially pensioners, who deplore the decline in their pensions, out-of-control inflation and dilapidated public services. Will they be happy to know that a few large French companies will pay less taxes in their country? While governments around the world are trying to introduce low tax rates to combat tax competition, including through a global corporate tax of 15 per cent, we are looking forward to an agreement that only aims to lower these taxes. Article 7 of the amendment provides that France will automatically benefit from the most favourable treatment that Argentina would grant to another State: always this race at least so-called. A single concession was made to Argentina – and again, very small compared to its initial request: in return for its waiver of a wider taxation of services rendered in the country by French companies, France has accepted the taxation of permanent establishments, but only of services, only on net profits and if the activity exceeds one hundred and eighty-three days a year. In 2019, the Argentine government with which the agreement was signed was led by Macri, Liberal president at IMF's orders, who was amply responsible for the current economic situation and the new debt bottlenecks contracted in 2018. The country will have to negotiate with the IMF the postponement of repayments of the $44 billion loan. Meanwhile, the poverty rate is 40 per cent, a situation reminiscent of the major crisis of 2001. Helping Argentina get out of this infernal cycle of debt and inflation is the priority. I do not think that this agreement is part of it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not accept for others what we would refuse for our country. Let us send a signal, a message: yes, it is possible to maintain trade relations, to invest in foreign countries without strangling them financially. Let us stop this race at least so-called fiscal, because behind these figures there are concrete realities of people strangled by a global economic system that does not meet their interests. The Communist deputies and the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u292	With regard to the single clause of the bill, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Hervé Berville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u293	It is a text of technical appearance that we are looking at, but it is basically very political, in the right sense of the word. First of all, I would like to thank rapporteur Forissier and his excellent alternate for today. Its report sheds light on national representation on the extent and depth of relations between France and Argentina, as well as on the very concrete economic consequences of the implementation of this new Convention. The bill reflects and embodies our commitment to deepen, improve and diversify a key partnership for our country and for the relationship between our two continents. Argentina is indeed a historic partner of France. But beyond history, the most important thing is that we share a common global agenda and that our two countries are engaged in the same struggle to meet the great challenges of the day. The first is climate change. If we succeeded COP21 in 2015, it was because Argentina played a key role and was a strong regional ally; His voice was involved in the negotiations. Argentina did not hesitate to renew and reaffirm its climate commitments in December 2020. We see here how diplomacy and foreign policy can have a direct impact on the day-to-day concerns of our fellow citizens. As you have pointed out, Mr rapporteur, our two countries also speak with one voice in relation to the essential fight for equality between women and men, which is one of the main priorities of our foreign policy. This partnership was highlighted in particular at the Génération Equality Forum. France has always been at the forefront of negotiations and discussions on the issue of indebted countries. As we have seen recently, President Emmanuel Macron was at the initiative of a debt service suspension under the G20. Argentina and all countries in similar situations are in line with what we have been defending for several months. The high-density and high-quality political dialogue with the Argentine government has included President Emmanuel Macron's visit to Buenos Aires in 2018 and President Alberto Fernández's visit to France in February 2020. It is now finding a new declination to make concrete progress on these common priorities. This text has a significant scope, as it contributes to considerably strengthening the position of French companies in this very dynamic emerging market. It will create employment in a market that needs it. The modernisation of this Convention does not concern only large groups and will directly benefit our very small enterprises (SME) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), particularly industrial ones. They will gain competitiveness thanks to the reduction of their tax burden and will now play on equal terms with their European competitors, particularly Italian. This is a valuable asset, for if France's trade deficit balance is subject to recurrent and legitimate criticism, and for several decades – you will grant it to me – it turns out that France has a solid trade surplus – 225 million euros – with Argentina. The latter is also a market of choice for companies investing, with a direct investment stock of EUR 1.9 billion, which is far from negligible; In particular, this represents many jobs for the Argentine market and knowledge sharing. This text encourages and promotes the implementation of new industrial projects, some of which are already under development. These projects have in return direct spin-offs for the activities of our territories throughout France – I am thinking for example of the renewable energy sector, and more broadly of the energy transition. Of course, this text – because we have a sovereign state in front of us – fully satisfies Argentina's interests: thanks to these arrangements, it will extend the scope of its taxable activities to the service sector and will now be able to tax stable service establishments. It was a legitimate request, which will have little impact in terms of the number of French companies involved; In this respect, the text is quite balanced. It is also important to stress, for the taxpayers who listen to us, that this agreement will also benefit the French State, because the tax revenues of the French Treasury will increase in proportion, the amount of foreign tax to be eliminated mechanically. It is clear that this text is part of the desire to renew the partnership. I am thinking of the place given to international volunteerism in business. I was able to benefit from it at the beginning of my working life, and I can tell you that this will encourage companies to recruit more and will offer new and very valuable opportunities for our young people. As you will have understood, this agreement promotes the projection of all French actors in a particularly dynamic country. By clarifying and regulating precisely the issue of double taxation, it will also help to prevent tax evasion, an issue that must be at the heart of our economic and financial partnership. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore with great will that the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this bill which ensures more fairness, competitiveness and attractiveness for our companies and which will allow our two countries to go further and stronger in the response to the major contemporary challenges.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u294	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u295	Today we are meeting to discuss the new amendment to the convention adopted in April 1979 by our Government and that of the Argentine Republic in order to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion. Signed in the 1970s, this convention was born out of the common will of our two countries to harmonize their trade tax systems, which were then intended to be increasingly important. The second convention signed by France with a Mercosur country, its application has not since posed any difficulties in implementation, characterised even by fluid exchanges of information between our two administrations. In this way, it has been able to maintain fully satisfactory fiscal relations with Argentina. Today, trade between our two countries has intensified as France has reached the rank of 10th world supplier to Argentina. To continue this dynamic of strengthening and deepening our relations, and in order to leave the door open to new opportunities, however, it became necessary for this convention to be renegotiated. As a result of its seniority, the 1979 Convention contained high withholding rates which were no longer appropriate, even though Argentina had since concluded more advantageous agreements with other States. The modernisation of this Convention, which is part of the intensification of the political dialogue between our two governments, will thus help to defend the competitiveness of our companies abroad; It will also play a role in the development of our influential diplomacy. In concrete terms, this new amendment signed at the initiative of France on 6 December 2019 will allow, in particular, a lowering of the conventional ceilings. In fact, it will lead to a reduction in the withholding tax ceilings for dividends, interest, royalties and capital gains. This provision will thus have to benefit the 250 French companies present in Argentina, a large part of which are TPEs and SMEs, since it will strengthen their competitive position thanks to a reduction in the tax burden. It will also benefit the French Treasury, since the amount of the Argentine tax to be eliminated will be reduced, thus the French tax revenues increased. Moreover, this amendment will allow better account to be taken of the new specificities of French legislation by the introduction of a mechanism for the taxation of listed real estate investment companies, the recognition of a right to tax deemed distributed income, the clarification of the tax arrangements, including trusts and trusts, which are explicitly included, or the exemption of income tax for international volunteers. Finally, this modernization of the Convention will benefit us, since it will broaden the scope of the most-favoured-nation clause by ensuring that France benefits from the most favourable rates granted by Argentina to its partners in terms of passive income, capital gains, income from independent professions or stable establishments. Argentina will also benefit from new advantages, since the amendment will allow the scope of the taxable activities of the services to be extended, by inserting a clause allowing the taxation of permanent establishments of services. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The bill before us, passed without amendment by senators, is intended to allow the approval of the said amendment. Considering that the new conventional balance guaranteed by this amendment will benefit the French economic interests as a whole, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats can only be in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u296	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u297	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u298	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u299	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 27 Number of votes cast 27 Absolute majority 14 For adoption 26 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u300	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u301	I thank the House for this vote and the rapporteur, who took over from his colleague, for the work done. I would like to say to Mrs Buffet that this convention has various advantages: it allows us to fight against tax evasion, to favour the VIE, those young people who leave for two years abroad, which is a great experience for them, as Didier Quentin said very well. It is of course not a question of plundering the Argentinian taxpayer, but of allowing French companies to be competitive with their competitors, especially Europeans, but not only, who benefit from more favourable tax treaties to date. It is quite legitimate for us to offer our companies, as Mr Berville and Mrs Mette have explained very well, for example, the possibility of benefiting from the best conditions of competitiveness in the face of these companies. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would point out that we managed to obtain the same type of more favourable non-double taxation agreement with Colombia, where I visited at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1137.u302	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Four bills authorizing ratification of the following international conventions: France-Mauritius Defence Agreement; France-Qatar Agreement on the status of their forces; Convention on Judicial Cooperation with the International Mechanism for Syria; France-Spain Convention on Nationality. The meeting is adjourned.
