ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u1	The Speaker of the Assembly received a letter from Mickaël Nogal, Member of Parliament for the fourth constituency of the Haute-Garonne, informing him that he was resigning his term as a Member of Parliament as of Monday, February 28, 2022. Act is given of this resignation which will be notified to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u2	The next item is the final reading of the draft law to democratise sport in France (No 5050).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u3	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u4	It is with great emotion that I express myself before you, the one that we all shared this morning when we learned that a war was declared a few hundred kilometres from home. The joint commitment we have made for almost three years to bring to fruition this text aimed at democratising sport in France is being put back in a new perspective for me, today, just a few hours from the suspension of the work of the National Assembly. To preserve our democracies wherever we can, is to bring, on its scale, a small stone to a building that we must protect with all our strength. Together with Jean-Michel Blanquer, we are proud to see the passage of this bill presented by the deputies of the majority. I salute those who have contributed to enriching it, and thank Nathalie Elimas for representing the Government at second reading. In particular, I would like to thank Christophe Castaner, Chairman of the La République en marche Group, and Mrs and Mrs M. Rapporteurs Céline Calvez, Pierre-Alain Raphan and Cédric Roussel. I also have a thought for President Mignola, who has worked very hard in favour of this text. This bill is primarily the result of teamwork over the past three years. This text is made by and for the sports movement. It is symbolized by a simple motto, which inspires me since I took up my duties: to do better together. We built it as a team, with Denis Masseglia and Emmanuelle Assmann, who had started consulting the sports movement as early as 2019, and then with Brigitte Henriques and Marie-Amélie Le Fur, who helped to improve it even further. Indeed, and it is a collective pride, this text, which was originally composed of eleven articles, now contains fifty-nine articles thanks to you, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. These 59 articles are the result of concrete, pragmatic and ambitious fieldwork that meets the real and unimagined expectations of volunteers, practitioners and leaders. To do better together is not to pour into angelism, it is to debate, to argue, to exchange, to understand and to listen. The Government is fully aware that some provisions represent paradigm changes and will require significant support from the State. We're ready for it. In eight hundred and eighty days precisely, it is expected that France will be the centre of the world and the object of all eyes for a month. Beyond the urgent need to make these Olympic and Paralympic Games a sporting and organisational success, this global event must be an opportunity to present to the world our unique sport model and, through it, the values of our country and those of Europe. This is the purpose of this bill: to democratize sports practice for all; modernise our sport governance; protect practitioners; strengthen our economic model, particularly affected by the health crisis. This text, enriched by the contributions of many parliamentarians, carries with it transformations, modernity and the future. Sport needs it urgently. During the health crisis, each one at our level and in our lives, we all felt the need for sport in what it brings positive emotions, connection and proximity to the other, consideration given to his own body, time given to himself. Even those who didn't practice sports felt that way. Here, we are all convinced of the usefulness of sport, its effectiveness and its benefits for the education of our children, public health, our physical and psychological well-being, but also for the cohesion of our country and the world, because it enables us to integrate the most fragile. So we have to say it loud and clear: sport brings solutions, creates spaces of sharing and festers with emotion. It must become a routine of our daily lives, our cities and our villages, regardless of our age. That is why the world of sport needs to be trusted, while at the same time empowering it. We must allow and encourage federations and clubs to intervene in other fields, with audiences other than their historical audiences. We must open the doors of school, the worlds of disability and health to sport. Our responsibility is to remove the obstacles to its development among the greatest number of our citizens. This is the purpose of Title I of this text, which aims to make sport more accessible to all, in all territories, at all ages and moments of our lives. With strength and conviction, I affirm that sport is a pillar of our children's education. To strengthen its educational role as well as its place in school, I therefore wanted my services to be closer to those of national education, in order to form a large team. This joint work, we lead him in two essential operations designed to equip our young people with basic sports knowledge: the bike riding know-how programme and the aquatic aisance plan. By your so important vote, you will make this knowledge an essential part of learning. Thanks to this vote, you will allow all the children of our Republic to be comfortable in the water from kindergarten – and in doing so to reverse the scourge of drowning – and to ride autonomously by bike before entering college. This joint work will also make it possible to give substance to the territorial educational alliance that with you, rapporteur Céline Calvez, we wanted to build by strengthening the links between school and sports clubs. It is also the meaning of the "1 club, 1 school" program that we initiated in order to open our schools even more to the associative wealth of our territories. To include this educational alliance at the heart of the education code is to recognize the fundamental role of the educator, the club and the association for the benefit of our youth. [[Applause on all benches]] As the Paralympic Winter Games begin in a few days, this bill strengthens access to sport for persons with disabilities. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the French delegation, which will proudly represent our country, especially our magnificent flag holder, Benjamin Daviet. Making sport an essential mission of medical and social institutions and services, providing for the appointment in each of them of a focal point for physical activities, organising the physical activities of people who are fragile or disabled, means making sport an essential lever for the emancipation and inclusion of our citizens. This text also allows us to continue the determined and determined action we have been taking over the past five years to develop, finally, healthy sport in our country. By including sports-health houses in the law, you will dedicate this strong campaign commitment of the President of the Republic. I am very proud to be able to announce that we will soon reach the 500-house health-sports bar, which many felt was impossible. I commend the remarkable work of all actors on the ground to make this promise a reality. To do more sport, to do better and to make it easier, is the object of all these measures by which we help the sports movement to strengthen its local anchor, to register as a key player in the communities, at the heart of the wealth of the territories and their history. This recognition is deserved and I am proud to bear witness to it. Another major step forward in this text is the strengthening of the prescription of adapted physical activity (APA). APA can now be prescribed for patients with chronic diseases or risk factors such as overweight, obesity or high blood pressure. The text also provides that persons who have lost their autonomy may benefit from the same requirement. I count on all the actors – associations, communities, teachers – to seize all these new opportunities. Title II of this text represents a step forward which I would call courageous. It is necessary to have courage to increase transparency in the functioning of the bodies, to give more women the opportunity to contribute to the development and influence of our federations and leagues, to ensure that our children can practice and live sport safely. Ladies and gentlemen, on February 24, 2022, you will finally say yes to parity in the governing bodies of the federations and leagues – in 2024 at the national level and in 2028 at the regional level. You will say yes to limiting the number of mandates of presidents and presidents of federations to allow for democratic renewal. You will say yes to a more important role for clubs in federal elections, to the representation of high-level athletes, coaches, referees in the governing bodies of federations. Above all, you will say yes to the sports movement, because it is it that has chosen this path of change and modernization. That's the meaning of history. The sports movement is ready and willing to start its revolution. I thank Marie-Amélie Le Fur and Brigitte Henriques once again for their unwavering commitment. Thank you for allowing us to mark the history of sport together, to lead the way as our country chairs the Council of the European Union. This text also affirms refusals. He said no to homophobic and transphobic discrimination by allowing, in particular, associations to fight against LGBT phobias to take civil action. He says no to psychological, gender-based and sexual violence that has no place in our society, especially in sport, which is supposed to flourish and emancipate. This text will strengthen our arsenal to better prevent, support and protect victims. He also said no to the manipulation of sports competitions by fighting in particular against illegal betting sites. As the minister responsible for sports, during the health crisis, I made the survival of our sports ecosystem a priority. Similarly, today I make strengthening and protecting the sport economic model a priority. This is the purpose of Title III of this bill. In order for the sport movement to be robust and better equipped against the drifts that weaken its economic model, we need to strengthen it structurally. It is from this perspective that we give the professional leagues the opportunity to create commercial companies. This is not a blank cheque – on the contrary. These companies will strengthen the links between federations, leagues and the state, since the creation and statutes will have to be approved. They will be tools to make our champions shine internationally. How, for example, can we now be satisfied with the low exposure of league 1 abroad? We must ensure that, as a result of these developments, amateur and professional sport is least damaged – and even stronger – while preserving our model. On the other hand, I know your intransigence on the issue of violence in the stadiums, which hurts and humiliates – whether it is discrimination or physical violence. In order for it to cease, I have tabled, on behalf of the Government, an amendment to the Senate to create a flat-rate fine procedure, following the commitments made recently with the world of football. It takes up the Government's approach and ambition to combat this scourge: to punish but fairly, by always placing pressure on the perpetrators of the acts. At the same time, the sector must also be encouraged to innovate. This is one of the objectives of this bill, which provides sports players with the opportunity to access new legal forms such as SCICs, cooperative societies of collective interest, and allows professional leagues to set up commercial companies within a framework governed by law. Let us be proud of the bill that you are about to vote on. To be better tomorrow: that is what is expected of all of us, gathered today. The path of trust, modernity, progress and courage is wide open. It's up to us to borrow it. I would like once again to welcome the quality of the work and the constructive exchanges we have had with you, the rapporteurs. I would also like to commend the work of all the Members who have worked to enrich this bill in favour of sport and its noblest content. I am thinking in particular of Belkhir Belhaddad, Maud Petit, Pierre-Yves Bournazel and all the Members of the majority groups. Let me also have a special thought for the one who was my minister when I was an athlete: Marie-George Buffet. I have an emotional memory of this period and know that it has carefully followed the work on this bill. I also extend a friendly greeting to Régis Juanico, who touched all of us the day before yesterday in his last question to the Government and who, during his three terms, led so many fights for sport. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, LT and GDR groups]] Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank from the bottom of my heart the sports management and all the agents of my ministry who are mobilized daily to serve our public policies and a citizen sport and solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u5	Mrs Céline Calvez, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u6	I associate my two dear co-rapporteurs, Pierre-Alain Raphan and Cédric Roussel, with the comments that will follow. Today is February 24, 2022. I suggest that you make a leap in the time of ten years, until 2032, and give you an early testimony: "My name is Margaux, I'm 20 years old and sport has already taken a big place in my life. Is it because I vibrated with France and the world at the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024? When I'm 12, I can tell you that it marks. However, that is not the only reason. "In my schooling, opportunities to move and practice a sport quickly multiplied around me. A sports association was established in my school from the beginning of 2022. Besides, I was super proud to invest in it, it was my first involvement as an associative. It was on the basketball court, in the yard, after class or even on the weekend. Do you know that by 2022 all new schools had to give independent access to their sports equipment? It was great to see these school classes liven up with the teachers, the clubs and all the people in the neighborhood! "I've told you about my community involvement. Today, when I'm 20, I'm in the middle of my riding club. Besides, I love the idea that my club has a voice in the decisions of the French horse riding Federation. We participate in the designation of those who embody this sport in France. And to say that a few years ago, we sometimes found it difficult to find 50% of humanity in federations – we women! The law of 2022 introduced parity and renewal, I can say that it brought a breath of fresh air. Above all, we have seen the mix progress in disciplines, in an incredible way in football, rugby and even in aeromodelism. As if, at last, women felt allowed to take the ball, to take their share. "Women – and of all ages, I can tell you – have started sports. Take for example my grandmother, Ninnin, who lives in a beautiful intergenerational residence. As in all other medical-social institutions since 2022, she has been offered physical activities that allow her to maintain strength and balance – something to prevent bad falls. In recent years, in order to be healthier, his doctor has prescribed him physical and sporting activities. Just a few movements and the body and mind are doing better. "Our economy is also doing better. By enshrining health sport in 2022, the creation of many jobs for educators and sports assistants among seniors, the sick or the disabled was promoted, in short among all. Not only have jobs been created through sport, but there has also been security of employability and better retraining. "With the extension, from three to five years, of contracts for athletes, we built together, lastingly, careers. By preserving television broadcasting rights, the link between amateur sport and pro sport has been strengthened. And by including in the law the possibility of creating cooperative societies of collective interest, we have even more introduced sport into the social and solidarity economy. » This is what the testimony of Margaux, my daughter, could be in 2032. But let's go back to 2022. After more than a year of debate, we have gathered in this Chamber to adopt in its final version the bill to democratise sport in France. The parliamentary shuttle has considerably enriched our text – as you said, Madam Deputy Minister – allowing us to carry our ambition high, located at the crossroads of public health and education issues, economic issues and those related to the requirement of representativeness and exemplaryness of the governing bodies. In the short time available to us, I would like to thank those who have believed in our project, which is not just about the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024, but about an ambition for all. That is the sense of democratization that we call for tomorrow's sport. I thank Christophe Castaner, our group chairman, but also the Government – and you in particular, Madam Deputy Minister – for supporting and enriching our bill. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, who have been very heavily invested, as well as our colleagues and administrators, for the success of our work. I am pleased that our Assembly has not instrumentalized the text in favour of political issues that were alien to it. We have remained faithful to our desire to improve public sports policies for the benefit of the greatest number, from the youngest to the oldest. Thank you, above all, to all the players in the sports movement for their commitment. Professionals or amateurs, paid or volunteers, they act on a daily basis in favour of the practice of sport, its values and the strong moments it makes us live. No law would have value if they were not there to apply them. Through everything it brings, especially in the field of democratic life in federations, the text pays tribute to them. He will strengthen them in their action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, thank you to those who believe in the sports values that irrigate this text and who – like my co-rapporteurs, the intimidating conviction – participate more widely in advancing our nation by fighting inequalities, stereotypes and discrimination. Long live the sport and live France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u7	In the general debate, Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u8	First of all, on this terrible day, I have, of course, with my group, a thought in support of the Ukrainian people. This speech, my last in public sitting – in principle, but I remain cautious – is devoted to the final reading of the bill to democratize sport. I should be happy about that. This is the case, and yet the final adoption of this text comes very late with an inextremis vote, in the final seconds, even the stops of the game...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u9	Nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u10	... of the legislature, as if it were a catch-up session for sport, just two and a half years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 in Paris.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u11	It shows the government's interest in the matter!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u12	Adoption is late for a text considered under a so-called "accelerated" procedure, adopted almost unanimously at first reading here on March 19, 2021 and which, as part of the parliamentary shuttle, was only placed on the Senate's agenda at the beginning of January 2022, following an incomprehensible race of slowness. We were hoping better. We expected, as successive sports ministers had formally committed themselves to it since 2017, a "sport and society" bill, a second Olympic law dedicated to inheritance after the one passed in 2018 concerning the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024. After two years of pandemic when sport has not been considered an essential good and has not been the subject of any public health prevention message, the goal of an additional 3 million practitioners by 2024, set at the beginning of the quinquennium by the President of the Republic, is no more than a pious wish. It is now a matter for amateur sports clubs to try to compensate by 2024 for the 30% of licensees lost in the last two years as well as some of the volunteers. We hope that the decrees implementing this law will be adopted quickly because we have no more time to waste, we are in the money time of the sporting, territorial and societal heritage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024. We know that public policies take almost two years to produce visible effects, sometimes more when it is necessary to generalize them to the general population. I would like to welcome the progress made in Title I in the field of public health, such as the extension of the scope for prescribing physical activities adapted to chronically ill or with risk factors, as well as to persons in loss of autonomy, the expansion of the list of prescribers, the development of physical activities in social and medico-social institutions or the definition in the law of sports-health homes. I would also like to highlight the progress made in Title II, in particular its proactive timetable for making effective parity within the federations – even if these provisions will only apply from 2024 – within the office of the NOCSF, the French National Olympic and Sports Committee, and that of the CPSF, the French Paralympic and Sports Committee, as well as the limitation of the number of mandates in sports bodies. We also supported articles promoting better representation of athletes, coaches and referees in the proceedings as well as the extension of the guarantee of good repute of the athletes' mentors. Title III, dear to Cédric Roussel, reflects long-awaited advances such as the legislative recognition of the platform to combat the manipulation of sports competitions, the possibility for sports companies to form cooperative societies of collective interest and the extension of the duration of the first contract for young professional athletes from three to five years. In the Senate, progress has also been made, particularly at the initiative of our colleague Jean-Jacques Lozach, such as the inclusion in the declarations of extra-financial performance of large companies of actions to promote physical and sporting activities or the relaxation and simplification of the certificate of non-contraindication to sports practice for adults. On the other hand, I regret that some of the provisions that we have defended are not included in the final text: the integration of the development of physical and sporting activities for employees within the scope of the annual negotiation on occupational equality and the quality of life at work, or the obligation for anyone who builds a new industrial or tertiary building in a workplace to provide it with showers and changing rooms. The text will not contain any concrete advances for the development of physical activities in a professional environment. We also regret the lack of recognition in the law of the tasks of coordination and evaluation of teachers in adapted physical activity. Finally, we disagree with article 3 bis B, which does not explicitly mention the obligation to establish a sports association in first-degree schools, as is the case in second-degree schools. The possibility contained in the text of creating territorial educational alliances with vague outlines, in the framework of cultural, sports, artistic and citizen projects, seems to us to dilute the objective of developing physical and sporting activities in schools and to weaken existing sports associations within the USEP, the first degree sports union, even though they should be strengthened. This proposal for a law to the taste of incompleteness will remain as a missed opportunity. Despite the real progress I have recalled, we cannot ignore the global lack of ambition – for example, in strengthening physical and sports education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u13	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u14	[[Applause on the SOC, LR and GDR benches]] That is why the Socialist and related group will abstain from the bill to democratize sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u15	Oh, Régis!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u16	It's a shame to finish on that note! But you can still change your mind!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u17	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u18	[[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] Before I speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party on the text before us today, I would also like to have a few words for the Ukrainian people, who are suffering a war on their soil that reminds us of the dark hours of Europe. We must defend peace and freedom, and have the clarity and courage to act within a multilateral framework to put an end to these very dangerous abuses for Europe. First of all, I would like to express our satisfaction and pride at the conclusion of a bill aimed at democratizing sport in France. It is the result of a long-term work, in which everyone, in the majority as in the opposition, was able to take part. Of course, I thank the rapporteurs, Céline Calvez, Pierre-Alain Raphan and Cédric Roussel, whose joint commitment to the development of sports practice for all. Thank you for working sparingly to put this text on the agenda of our assembly. I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the Minister responsible for sports, whose commitment I welcome, as well as the results of three years of action in her post. It has always defended sportsmen and sportsmen with great conviction, but also the sport nation we call for. This text represents a real step forward for the sports movement. In many respects, French sport is indeed at a turning point, whether structurally, with the creation of the National Sports Agency (ANS) in 2019 and the new territorial organisation that is deployed everywhere in France; at the societal level, because of the crisis of trust that it is going through – I refer in particular to sexual violence; and economically, the players in the sports world still suffering the effects of the health crisis. Beyond this difficult finding, we must not lose sight of the two objectives underlying our project: the development of sport for all and the success of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. Within two years of this major deadline for our country, a law on sport was needed in order to respond to the various issues at stake. The Action Together Group welcomes the progress made by this text in promoting the development of sport practice, the modernisation of the governance of federations and a more virtuous sport model. We have greatly enriched this bill. I am thinking in particular of the provisions on access to sport for all, which will promote independent access to sports facilities in new colleges or public schools; to health sport, which others have already mentioned and whose development will be facilitated by the extension of the prescription to persons at risk or suffering from chronic diseases, as well as by the designation of sports focal points within social and medical-social institutions; the safety of practitioners, which will be improved by extending the monitoring of criminal records of all persons involved with minors; or the economic model, which will be modernised thanks to the possibility offered to professional leagues to set up companies to market and manage audiovisual rights. At the initiative of our group, we also provided territorial projects with a training mission to combat all forms of discrimination in sport and requested a report on the impact of the current crisis on sponsorship spending. We also welcome the continuation of several provisions introduced in the Senate that are in the right direction, such as the inclusion in the law of sports-health houses or the administrative blocking of illegal online betting sites. Finally, I welcome the continuation of Article 1 ter E, which provides for the possibility of including cultural and sporting issues in the raison d'être of companies, in the same way as societal and environmental issues. I had defended this provision here at first reading. You will understand: this bill is rich. She was expected. I believe, for my part, that the duty of the Republic is always to seek balance. We did. This requires the courage of nuance and not to give in to the radicalization of minds by vile polemics. Because sport, as I often say, is a vector of social cohesion and individual emancipation; because the values of respect, solidarity, perseverance and collective spirit that it conveys are those that our country needs most; and because France will soon have the opportunity to be the sporting showcase of the world at major events such as the Rugby World Cup or the Olympic and Paralympic Games, we must have a strong ambition in this area. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] There are no small or large laws: there is only one law, that of the Republic. By adopting the proposal before us today, we are doing a useful job.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u19	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and Agir ens groups]] Sport is both the founder and the vector of strong values: universality, fraternity, respect, solidarity. We desperately need these founding values, especially today, when our thoughts can only be expressed, with emotion, on the situation in Ukraine and the Ukrainians, to whom I would like to express our full support. May Europe be united to react and act for peace. If we have made too little mention of sport in this House during this parliamentary term, it is a beautiful symbol to talk about it today, because sport concentrates everything that is beautiful and noble in our societies. Our work, like that of our fellow senators, has greatly enriched the text before us, as the rapporteurs have been able to select certain proposals. Once again, I want to pay tribute to their work. We now have a more comprehensive bill that addresses many of the issues that arise in terms of democratisation and accessibility of sport practice. In my view, the central point of the debate is the lack of sports infrastructure: hence, the many problems involved. First, the text seeks, among other things, to compensate for the lack of infrastructure by opening up school grounds. The announcement of an investment of some EUR 200 million for the construction of equipment between 2022 and 2024 has, however, rebuffed the maps, even though we regret that it is taking place so late in the quinquennium: my group has been making this request for several years during the examination of the finance bill. While the priority areas of city policy must be the first to benefit from these new facilities, I hope that rural areas will not be forgotten, as the lack of infrastructure is often the first obstacle to sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u22	Second, the introduction of the sports pass allowed some families to re-enroll their children in the sport of their choice, after the difficulties encountered in the new year 2020. However, we cannot ignore that the deployment of this pass has encountered some difficulties due to the lack of prior experimentation. We could also consider supporting other audiences, such as students who do not have access to sports equipment on their campus. I hope that this will increase the benefits of the tool. The issue of school sport is a third major issue, which I would have liked to have dealt with more. According to a World Health Organization (WHO) study, almost 80 per cent of adolescents do not have enough sport on a daily basis. This shows how central the issue of sport from an early age, especially at school, is, even if you have sometimes concentrated in this bill on more secondary issues. Finally, I am pleased, however, that more attention is paid to young people enrolled in a high-level sports course: the school must do everything possible to support the development of their careers without compromising their education. Their success, the continuation of their careers – and the impact of French sport – also depend on the quality of the support they must receive from an early age in schools. Beyond performance, it is also the benefits of sport for social integration or health that we must promote from an early age. Sport must, in the future, be seen not as mere leisure, but as a genuine tool of public policy in the service of the well-being of our citizens. In this sense, I believe that the recognition of sport as a component of a health prevention policy must finally succeed. It would be an important paradigm shift for health insurance to carry out upstream educational actions. It is for all these reasons that the question of equipment and its multiplication in the territory is paramount. I will conclude by referring quickly to the governance of the federations. Imposing parity in the various bodies of federations means going in the direction of history: to change attitudes, we sometimes have to force things, on different scales of society. The image of women in sport must evolve. To do this, athletes need to be better represented and recognized. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Thus, without exaggerating its scope, the IDU and independent group will support this bill, hoping that it will soon call for further advances in sport in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u23	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u24	First of all, I want to express my concern at the potential evolution of the unjust war that has just begun and to express my solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We have reached the end of the long journey that this bill will have known. We know your commitment, Madam Deputy Minister. I also welcome the tenacity and willingness of consensus that you have shown during the parliamentary debate. I shall, however, express a few regrets on behalf of the Freedom and Territory Group. First, the too late inclusion of the text in the Senate's agenda led to its consideration in an electoral period conducive to controversy that it clearly did not need. While many measures were the subject of consensus between the two chambers, the Senate's rejection of the text on rereading shows that our debates have been parasitized by external considerations. Our group can only deplore this instrumentalisation, which has largely blurred the message sent to sports players in France. We also regret that, despite the enthusiasm shown by the executive, this text does not meet the ambition of the great sports law announced by the President of the Republic. It is believed that the "sports and society" law which the latter called for in his vows should encourage 3 million French to enter sport in the run-up to the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. The account probably won't be there. One figure in this respect is that, according to the Agence nationale de sécurité santé de l'alimentation, de l'environnement et du travail (ANSES), 95% of French adults do not do enough sport, to the detriment of their dynamism and health. In a word, the sports movement deserves to move forward, especially after two years of pandemic that have greatly affected it. In this regard, the figures are only cause for concern: the number of laid-off workers has fallen from 25 to 30 per cent and tens of thousands of associations are weakened. Sport can and must be a powerful message in the moment that our societies are going through. As fractures become more and more acute and tensions become more and more exacerbated, it is a formidable vehicle for integration, conviviality and emancipation. It is also, as I said, a tool of well-being and public health, all the more fundamental after the period of restrictions that we have experienced. That is why our group has consistently supported, in vain, an expansion of the reimbursement of sports on prescription. It is also for this reason that we once again call for the improvement of the sports pass, which has only partially achieved its objectives, because of its complexity. More broadly, our group believes that the current period could have made it possible to further modernise the governance and functioning of the world of sport, for example by improving the integration of licensees and supporters into federations. The economic model of sport in France, made uncertain by two years of crisis, should also have been questioned. The proposal we made during the examination of the last draft of the finance law, to allocate part of the funds of the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission to the support of sports associations rather than to devote them entirely to the Paris Olympics, had meaning and responded to the urgency. This text contains advances that it would be unfair to deny. These developments, I hope, will give fresh impetus to the functioning of our institutions. I am thinking in particular of provisions to improve parity within bodies or to limit the cumulation of mandates. The world of sport cannot stay away from the ethical, transparency and renewal imperatives of our time. Too often, sports federations may have seemed rigid, thus stifling the dynamism of their actors. On these points, we regret that it has not been possible to reach consensus with the Senate, some of which have tended to diminish the scope of the text adopted by the Assembly. We are therefore pleased that the provisions adopted here at first reading have been re-established. We also welcome the opportunity for associations to form a cooperative society of collective interest, thus opening sport to the model of the social and solidarity economy. I am pleased to recall, once again, in this forum, the example of the Sporting Club of Bastia. In view of the progress it is introducing, the Libertés et Territoires Group will not oppose this bill. But, I would like to point out in conclusion, many projects remain open. Too often ignored, sport must more than ever form one of the cornerstones of common life in terms of health, culture, cohesion and citizenship.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u25	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u26	[[Mr Pascal Bois applauds]] In my turn, I address all my thoughts in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, who are victims of an incredible attack, firmly condemnable – and indeed condemned – by the Russians. My comrade, Michel Larive, having made our arguments particularly well in previous readings, the essentials have been said. However, I would like to express my view as elected on the 93rd. I want to do this because in Seine-Saint-Denis, sport does not escape the rule of sub-donation: in my department, there are 16 sports facilities per 10,000 inhabitants, while the national average reaches 49 per 10,000, and the average age of our facilities is around 40 years. As for the developments related to the upcoming Olympic Games, there is no real improvement in the area of community facilities. For us, therefore, it is urgent to democratize sport,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u27	For us too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u28	... in both senses of the word: to strengthen consultation in decision-making related to it, and to make it accessible to as many people as possible. That is why, on 10 February, at the initiative of our colleague Marie-George Buffet, the sports players in the 93 gathered in the Assembly, including teachers of physical and sports education (EPS), parents of students, local elected officials, national elected representatives and trade unionists. Our exsangue local authorities cannot do away with the sport drop-out found in this department alone. I am pleased to see the issue of "democratisation of sport" at the national level – since it is the title of the bill more than ally, although an attractive title is not enough. Unfortunately, of the two definitions of democratisation, it has only one definition: the one that costs the least. The text therefore aims to democratize decision-making bodies. It contains some rather laudable progress in this area. I am thinking first of parity, although it will be necessary to wait until 2028 at the regional level, and then to the participation of clubs in the election of presidents of federations. We don't complain about it, but it's not much. Because, as far as the inclusion of everyone is concerned, the account is really not there. In my department, only 30 per cent of college students practice club sports. Yet it is at this age that habits should be taken, when we know how much physical activity is a public health issue: according to WHO, sedentaryness is responsible for 2 million deaths every year in the world. The phenomenon has only intensified since the beginning of the health crisis, and particularly affects young people and adults with low levels of education, largely overrepresented in the 93. Teachers, students, their parents, trade unions, other elected officials and I, therefore, cannot be content with this minimalist text. As soon as it costs something, it's true there's no one left. Prescription sports are still not reimbursed. The obligation to install changing rooms and showers in new office buildings is still not included in the law, and teachers in adapted physical activity are not recognized, even though the proposed law confers legal status on sports-health homes. What a missed opportunity! On the other hand, it does not fail to offer the leagues the opportunity to set up commercial companies, in order to sell even more a sector that would do well. Merchandising is the opposite of democratizing. It is the same with regard to the retransmission of sports events, whose access is subject to a host of onerous subscriptions. And as everything is a pretext for deregulation, rather than generalizing school sports associations, here is the opening up of the possibility of introducing into schools, thanks to territorial educational alliances, private organizations not affiliated with the federations, which therefore offer no guarantee. This is how to give the illusion of spreading sports practice, once again without spending anything. Colleagues who defend this text, on this and other subjects, your pingrerie is obvious. For any effect on sports practice, this text will have allowed to maintain a single muscle: your languages. As a result, the group La France insoumée will again abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u29	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u30	It is difficult to speak in this rostrum without saying, after the serious shift that took place this morning in Ukraine, our thinking for the civilian populations directly threatened, and without calling on the international community to do everything to stop the Russian aggression and to protect the populations – I have of course also a thought for our compatriots on the spot. I come back to the bill that is causing dissatisfaction in our ranks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u31	In ours too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u32	... to the extent of the strong expectations it had provoked. The Communist deputies and the whole group of the Democratic and Republican Left regret the absence of a great law on sport during this quinquennium. Unfortunately, sport has appeared a little like the last of the priorities, which translates into the adoption at the last moment of the legislature of a text that is not calibrated to carry out ambitious public sports policies. I regret that this bill has also been used as a pretext for political rances on the subject of religious signs in sport, seeking to exclude women from sports practice, a thousand leagues away from the intention of democratizing sport. Of course, we denounce this speech and give our support to all sports women, who have been struck and revolted by these outrageous words. During the various readings of the bill, we were able, by supporting our amendments, to develop our vision of sport for our country, that of building a public service for sport in favour of a sport culture for all. It is at stake: to break the barriers that hinder practice, to get audiences away from sport. We know the levers to make France a sport nation that cannot be summed up in the number of Olympic and Paralympic medals it collects, a sport nation that can only be built by increased support for local clubs and by building volunteer status. I take the opportunity to address the central issue of the school to renew our opposition to Article 3 bis B creating territorial educational alliances instead of the obligation to establish sports associations in schools. This confusion about school sport has been going on for too long. The USEP in the first degree and the UNSS – National School Sport Union – in the second, moderated by the teachers of the schools and the teachers of EPS, must be strengthened in their missions. The same applies to physical and sports education, which is no longer considered a real subject – for example, it has disappeared from the patent test. That is also why we are resolutely opposed to Article 3 quater A establishing an hour of daily physical activity outside the EPS. Sport at school is not moving 30 minutes a day. Children need to engage in physical and sports education with teachers from schools who are sufficiently trained upstream, in order to acquire the habit of practice that will be necessary for them throughout their lives. While the text contains articles opposed by Communist MEPs, they welcome the progress made in the area of parity and the governance of federations. Despite the unbridling in the Senate, repelling parity in the governing bodies of the federations to the Greek calendes and abolishing the limitation of mandates over time, the Government and the Deputy Minister stood firm. We support these articles back to their original version. We also support the opening up of the legalization of fumigants in the stadiums, putting an end to a hypocritical ban system that created more dangers than anything else. More broadly, in the continuity of the information report of our colleagues Sacha Houlié and Marie-George Buffet, we will have to continue the work to build a French-style model of supportism. Sport without supporters loses its soul considerably. Fans and ultras are an integral part of clubs, their history. If we must have a firm hand against hooligans, violence, discrimination, we must promote supportism, give more rights to associations and recognise their social role. You will have recognized, in my voice, the words of my colleague Marie-George Buffet who associates himself with me in this observation. Finally, we regret the absence in this text of measures to combat the excessive commodification of sport, the speculative bubbles that weaken clubs, as we see in football. The creation of commercial companies to exploit television rights will not contribute to better – but indispensable – regulation of professional sport. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] You will understand by hearing me express our expectations and dissatisfaction that the GDR Group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u33	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u34	The legislative marathon of the bill to democratize sport is coming to an end. My personal journey taught me that sport is always a life lesson, a universal experience. Sport teaches us that. It makes us humble and gives us the strength to cross the finish line, towards and against everything, including in moments as serious as those we live. I have in my turn a thought at this moment for the Ukrainian people. Last October, during a trip to Seine-Saint-Denis, the President of the Republic set the objective of "putting sport at the heart of the nation" for what it brings us, to allow us to be a nation "stronger in the perspective of the Olympic Games, but also after", with a "inheritance stake". The message that we have to deliver this afternoon is a message of national unity to these millions of French people, practitioners, mentors, volunteers, federal officials, who are waiting for our voice and are impatient waiting for the vote on this text. They are the beating heart of our country. The challenges we face are immense. To democratize sport is a political ambition that places it at the heart of the nation, with a goal of nearly 3 million new practitioners. To want to democratize sport is also a method, a work that lasted more than three years to achieve a balanced text, co-built with ministerial cabinets, the NOCSF, a text enriched by the proposals of senators during the parliamentary shuttle. I want to thank all those who contributed to this result, in particular the rapporteurs Céline Calvez, Pierre-Alain Raphan, and Cédric Roussel and all my colleagues, as well as the president of the La République en marche group, Christophe Castaner. The sport parliament that we set up in 2018, with François Cormier-Bouligeon and Cédric Roussel, and the work of two study groups on the subject have brought to the table many proposals that place sport at the heart of the National Assembly's concerns. This is quite new in this institution. Our majority was able to bring this breath and freshness. I would also like to thank you very sincerely, Madam Deputy Minister, as well as your entire cabinet and, through you, the entire Government. Together, we have come to this very good result, even though many projects are still in front of us. Wanting to democratize sport, they are also acts and very good advances. In Title I of the Bill, health sport is extended and more recognized. It also includes access to school sports facilities for associations, the strengthening of the fight against all forms of discrimination, the provision of physical and sporting activities among the tasks of general interest of social and medical-social institutions and services, and the development of local sports plans. In Title II, we find provisions on parity – we cannot be less saying, it is a marker of our mandate – the cumulation of mandates and the modalities for the election of presidents of federations by clubs. These are indispensable democratic issues. Title III includes the possibility for professional leagues to set up a commercial company for the marketing and management of audiovisual exploitation rights with a transfer limited to 20 %. I say this to members of the Republicans group: you will never be allowed to steal the victory from these millions of volunteers, mentors or federal officials. To unbridled radicality, let us always prefer the luminous shade; to the excess of trust, the overflow of humility!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u35	It's hollow!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u36	Let us make sport values an art of living in French without forgetting that sport is a vector of emancipation. The spirit and values of Olympism that will be in honour in two and a half years must enter every home, whatever the condition, origin, colour of skin or confession of each, for sport is the place of encounters, healthy competition and otherness; He's anything but a bunker. The unconvinced objective of these sterile oppositions to our text is also to avoid talking about our balance sheet on sport during this legislature because it is good: the labelling of the 436 sports-health houses, the reform of the governance of French sport through the territorial declination of the ANS, as well as the most important investment plan in equipment for at least thirty years, within the framework of France's revival and the plan of the 5000 equipments, is each time our majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u37	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u38	And the sport pass that we renewed for 2022 to the tune of 100 million euros is us again! All this bothers you, colleagues The Republicans, but that is the reality. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Clemenceau said, "You have to know what you want. When you know it, you have to have the courage to say it; When you say it, you have to have the courage to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, this legacy is being prepared today and here by the massive vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u39	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u40	[[Applause on many benches]] In the preamble, allow me to express, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Republican Group, all our solidarity with the Ukrainian people as the burst of bombs and cries resonates at our doorstep. If we had to choose a text that reflects the "at the same time", this characteristic policy that has damaged France for the past five years and by which we do not choose or accept anything, this bill would be a wonderful one. There are speeches, and there is the reality of the facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u41	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u42	This gap, unbearable because incomprehensible, fuels more than ever the French's distrust of politics. Your only consistency is your incoherence: democratizing sport – as the title of the text indicates – but refusing to reaffirm the principle of secularism; democratize sport, but implement it with communityism; democratize sport, but support gender equality with exceptions; democratizing sport, but denigrating the sovereignty of voting; democratize sport, but without providing any additional means for its practice in the territories. It is not for the sake of reaching out to you, with our colleagues in the Senate, to give breath to this empty shell that you are so proud to introduce us, colleagues in the majority, and which, I tell you frankly, will not remain in the annals of this House. Thus, taking into account the cost of independent access to sports equipment in a school, the daily practice of physical activity in primary school, the strengthening of adapted sport, the inclusion of aquatic facilities in the programmes, the granting of an increased role to the ethics committee of each federation to prevent conflicts of interest, the extension of the first professional sports contract from three years to five years, the conversion of professional sportsmen and the national charter of volunteerism were among the contributions of the Senate that you rejected with this customary contempt of a majority whose only compass is the sense of the wind! But the most important thing is your refusal to include in the law the prohibition of the wearing of ostentatious religious signs during sports events organized by the federations. Tomorrow, who will be responsible for the pressure they will have to endure in order to allow the wearing of the sail? You. Tomorrow, who will be responsible for deviating not only our republican principles but the very spirit of sports values and the Olympic Charter? You again. Tomorrow, who will be responsible for refusing to fight radicalization in sport? Always you. Is this the legacy you want to leave? Is it on such a political and moral fault that you wish to complete the work of this legislature? Off-ground, cut off from all reality, you give yourself a good conscience by addressing the problem of radicalization by the little tip of the lorgnette; But those we have to fight, they do not make this mistake: they use all the means and all the spaces at their disposal to change what we are. They have nothing to do with your excuses, your good-thinking and your cowardice! To remind everyone of their duty to religious neutrality, including in sport, is not to refuse the difference, on the contrary: it is to allow each one to flourish in the respect of the other. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and Catherine Pujol also applaud]] France is not a sum of individualities or a compilation of communities: it is one. We are a nation, a whole that shares a past and a destiny. That, between us, is a fundamental difference that the French must know. You can count on us to call them back.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u43	On the proposal for a law, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u44	Finally a little benevolence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u45	[[Applause on many benches]] I will address my first words to the people of Ukraine, for whom we think in solidarity on this very special day. "Freedom knows no borders, it is enough for a voice to rise and call for freedom in one country, to give courage to those on the other side of the world," Kofi Annan said. In these troubled times, the values of sport, solidarity, fraternity and humanism, are more essential than ever. We are once again gathered for the promotion of this beautiful spirit and these values, for the final reading of the bill aimed at democratizing sport in France. After the failure of the Joint Joint Committee for a point of divergence unrelated to the democratisation of sport, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats regrets the preliminary question adopted by the senators, which thus swept away all the work accomplished and the major advances of this text from a reverse vote. It is to be believed that access to sport for all and for all is not of interest to some, once their attempts to instrumentalize have been pushed back. But we, with pride and conviction, will finally adopt this text today. Beyond sterile polemics, the work in the Assembly was rich in concrete progress on the theme of sport, well-being and health. Our group has engaged throughout the legislature on the sport issue through texts such as the creation of the National Sport Agency in 2019, or through its work on the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. And it is to accompany and encourage the sport project of each and every one of us that we have worked on this bill. At the last reading, our House re-established a number of essential provisions which I will recall. First of all, with regard to parity, our group is satisfied with the application of strict parity in federations, both nationally and regionally. The position of women in the sports movement, particularly in the governing bodies, must become evident. The re-establishment of the article establishing parity within the office of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee is also to be welcomed. With regard to cumulation, the limitation of the presidency of a federation to three terms is an important symbol to encourage transparency and renewal within these bodies. Our commission has removed the provisions that, introduced in the Senate, were intended to prohibit the wearing of sail in sports competitions organized by federations. In our view, this provision did not have its place in this text, and the law aimed at strengthening the principles of the Republic has already strengthened the mechanisms inherent in respect for secularism. The Democrats Group also welcomes the reintroduction of the provision to give leagues and ultramarine sports committees affiliated with a regional federation the possibility of organising sports competitions. We were particularly interested in re-establishing this provision, with a view to the competitiveness and performance of the remote ultramarine teams, as we know, of hexagonal competitions. Similarly, our group is at the root of the removal of the requirement to create showers when building offices, another provision introduced by the Senate. We recognize the Senate's interest in developing sport practice in the professional world, but the proposed mechanism seemed incomplete and even counterproductive to us. On such a subject, incitement and co-construction with professional actors are preferable to coercion. The expansion of the prescription of health sport, introduced in the National Assembly by our group, has been enriched in the Senate by a provision providing for the submission of a report to Parliament on the management of adapted physical activity (APA), on the deployment of sports-health homes and on the possibility of renewal of the activity by massagers-kinesitherapists. Our group welcomes these good developments which contribute to the improvement of public prevention policies. In addition, the creation of a high-level arbiter status for professional sports recognizes their competence and underlines their importance in the sporting world. This was necessary and expected. The creation of territorial educational alliances, which will promote the emergence of cultural, sporting, artistic or citizen projects, is a positive step for students. Finally, I welcome the introduction of an administrative blocking procedure for illegal gambling sites. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applauds]] By making it possible to improve the daily lives of our citizens, to give everyone access to a sport practice, and we can only welcome it. It is therefore with conviction, and with the satisfaction of the work done on co-construction, that the Democratic Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u46	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u47	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u48	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 67 Against 6
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u49	The next item is the final reading of the proposal for a law to combat school harassment (No. 5056).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u50	The next speaker is the Minister for National Education, Youth and Sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u51	I will begin, of course, by expressing my full solidarity with Ukraine and the Ukrainians at this very serious moment, as we begin the final examination of a text that reminds us that peace and fraternity are being built from school onwards. And what is true of France is of course true, in this case, for the whole world, for the human race, in a time when the school's stake is more important than ever. I am pleased, one last time before the end of this parliamentary session, to address you on a subject that reminds us of the work and commitment of Members on education issues throughout this Parliament. This bill demonstrates once again the commitment of the nation's representatives to our school, to the values it conveys, especially that of fraternity, whose harassment is the antithesis. In particular, I would like to thank MP Erwan Balanant for his long-standing commitment to this issue, including the report he has written on this issue. His bill reflects the joint work of Parliament and the Government on many issues. For five years, I have made the fight against harassment in schools one of my top priorities. While actions since 2017 have helped to contain physical harassment among students, the rapid and exponential progression of cyber-harassment calls for increased efforts and vigilance. The fight against harassment is a social issue that goes far beyond school. I am pleased that, through this bill, the representatives of the nation have decided to deal with it in their turn. No, we will never get used to young lives being broken by this scourge. Yes, we must struggle tirelessly and with the latest energy to eradicate this phenomenon, wherever it is. As I have often said, it is not only a question of being defensive, of fighting harassment, but also of being offensive and fighting for a good school climate. Let us set ourselves together – and one more step will be taken with this text – a goal of zero harassment in school. It is possible: some schools, some teachers arrive in certain places in France, and even at the level of certain countries. This bill is another step in the direction of this ideal, which is not a utopia but a possibility. From the plan to combat harassment at school in 2018, to the generalization of the programme of the same name, says PHARE, in 2022, we did not wait to take this phenomenon with arms. Since 2018, we have embarked on a proactive and ambitious plan to combat harassment in schools around three main areas: prevention, intervention and training. The best way to curb the phenomenon is prevention. That is why we have taken a number of measures: banning mobile phones in college, dialogue with social media platforms, launching of five prevention campaigns, the themes of which I recall: revenge porn, the role of witnesses, group dynamics, first degree, cyberharassment. I led these campaigns with Brigitte Macron, with whom we went very often to institutions to talk about it. It is also important to ensure that no student, parent, teacher is left alone to deal with this kind of situation. That is why we have created mobile teams that intervene in institutions, as we have done for republican values, on four topics including the fight against harassment and cyber-harassment. Thanks to the "regalian square" – as we now call it – placed with each rector, the institutions have intervention teams at their service. I say it again, but it has to be said and repeated constantly so that it is even better known and used, two listening numbers now exist, 3020 and 3018, and an application was launched fifteen days ago, allowing, for the 3018, exchanges by email, chat or WhatsApp, in order to allow immediate reports and reactions in case of cyberharassment. Finally, it seems necessary to have a network of actors whose management of harassment is the job. That is why we have worked to improve the management of harassment situations by strengthening the initial and in-service training of teachers – something that is now systematic – and by developing the "student ambassadors" system, which enables peer-to-peer awareness, but also by publishing resources and guides for staff, students and their families. The Regalian square has completed this system since the beginning of 2021. We have with the PHARE programme, since the beginning of 2021, after an experiment and before a generalisation to all colleges and schools from the beginning of 2022, something very strong. In each school or institution, there will now be a harassment focal point, staff trained in the detection and treatment of each situation, and student ambassadors. Families are involved in this collective effort and this is a fundamental point. You can be a parent of a harassed child but also a parent of a stalking child, let's not forget.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u52	It's important to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u53	There must be no blind spot in our approach. It is a dimension to which I am very attached and which joins what I had previously set up with the parents' briefcase because, in this particular area, a better involvement of families is decisive. There is therefore a method that applies establishment by establishment, with teams trained for this purpose and a treatment of all situations: the device is massive. The objective is simple: not a single case of harassment must remain unanswered. We must emerge from an exclusively defensive logic in order to move on to the offensive. With the School Assessment Board, we are now in a position to assess the school climate in each school, in order to have an assessment of the situation and, if necessary, to take appropriate measures. We must also seek to promote the student's commitment, their sense of general interest, civics and empathy, the so-called soft skills that are so essential. This is what we do through our work on psychosocial skills in kindergarten. What I call "respect others", in addition to reading, writing, counting, includes the fight against harassment. We raise it to the rank of fundamental knowledge, of fundamental competence of primary school and of the continuation of the course of school. The aim is to strengthen the moral and civic education of each student, as well as media and information education. This is also what we are doing through the "No Harassment" award, which we have expanded with a specific cyber-harassment prize and another for elementary school, which each year give rise to remarkable work in the classrooms. I invite you to see the latest video produced in this context by French students: she has toured the world, with 48 million views. Last but not least, we have sought throughout the quinquennium to promote the involvement of young people in all its forms. Again, and that is what I hear when I say that we must be on the offensive, not on the defensive, it is by creating a good school climate, by placing the principle of fraternity at the heart of everyday life that we can fight at best. I think, of course, in this regard, of the ambassadors "No to Harassment", whose creation appeared to us, in 2017, as the first effective measure. Today, there are 23,000. In 2017, there were also no ecodelegates; In 2022, there were 250,000. They also contribute to the good school climate. In 2017, there were no young people engaged in the universal national service (UNS); In 2022, they will be 50,000. They too are real ambassadors. Nor should we forget the civic services, which are mobilized on this subject. In 2017, there were 123,000 volunteers; In 2022, they will be 200000. And because the commitment of these young people must serve as an example, I wanted young civic services to be mobilised to participate in the implementation of the PHARE programme in schools and institutions. The text that you are proposed to adopt definitively is part of this dynamic. It brings a new stone to the building by broadening the legal basis of school harassment and creating a specific offence of harassment in school. On several other points, it complements and strengthens the action taken, particularly through the PHARE programme: I am thinking in particular of the role of associations, some of which have been actively involved in the development of this partnership mechanism, which will be strengthened by law. This bill allows, as I said, to send a message to the nation as a whole: no, harassment has no place in our institutions. During these five years, we have done a great deal for equality: double classes, three-year school or devices such as Duties Made and Learning Holidays, with educational cities, boarding schools of excellence and free breakfasts. We have also done a lot for freedom: personalisation of the courses through the reform of the high schools, which offers more choice, redesign of the orientation to open the field of possibilities, increased autonomy of the establishments, with the Marseille plan or the creation of a function of school director, and many other things. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] The examination of this bill to combat school harassment gives us the opportunity to conclude this quinquennium, on the legislative level, by doing everything for this other great fundamental principle, dear to our school, dear to our Republic, which is at the heart of humanism and without which freedom and equality cannot be entire: I want to speak, as you will understand, of fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u54	Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u55	Like all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I have an emotional thought about the situation in Ukraine, and in particular for Ukrainian children, who this morning may not have been able to attend school. We are meeting today for the final reading of the bill to combat school harassment. This text comes back to us after a rejection in the Senate. I would just like to take advantage of this introductory statement to recall its basic guidelines. It is based on three complementary pillars, which form a balanced whole: prevention, support and protection. Prevention, first of all, involves raising the awareness of pupils and their families, training the professionals concerned and implementing specific measures within the institutions, a work which you, Minister, and the PHARE programme have largely begun. Second, the support of victims, perpetrators and witnesses of school harassment is based on the training of stakeholders in order to ensure the early detection and treatment of these situations. The application of measures and protocols defined in each school must make it possible to direct students who require it to different structures: medical and social personnel, associations, sometimes law enforcement and justice. Finally, protection against school harassment is based on the definition of a right to education without harassment. The text thus establishes an obligation of means to be borne by the public authorities in order to guarantee the exercise of this right. The provisions to punish the violation of the latter are primarily based on a pedagogical approach. The offence of school harassment that we introduce into the Penal Code defines a clear and comprehensible prohibition for all, which is of particular importance in that it gives protection to children and young adults who must be able to grasp the issues at stake. Defining a clear prohibition gives rights to our children, and I am convinced that knowing and aware of their rights frees the child's speech; We know how important the release of the child's speech is in a situation of school harassment. Because we are making the choice of protecting our children from all types of harassment in school, some, particularly in the Senate, have expressed their concern that teachers who are victims of abuse, on the basis of the offence of school harassment, which section 4 provides for the creation of. First, I would like to point out that the outcome of any complaint is the sovereign assessment of the judge on the merits. Moreover, it must be noted that the excesses feared by some are already possible, in particular on the basis of the offence of moral harassment or, more simply, by repeated complaints to heads of institutions or academic directorates. In general, I do not believe that the risk of unfair procedures justifies the refusal of an autonomous criminal qualification. More fundamentally, the wording adopted by the National Assembly does not cover any particular category: it cannot therefore be considered as a manifestation of distrust of anyone. Another point of disagreement with the Senate concerns the status of cyberharassment. It seems to me dangerous to present school harassment and cyber-harassment as distinct realities: it is only a means for the perpetrators of harassment to reach their victim. School harassment is defined by the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, based on attendance at the same institution. This characterization makes it possible to include all the manifestations of the phenomenon, whether they occur in the premises, in the vicinity of the establishments or in cyberspace. In this text, we take into consideration the issues raised by the use of electronic communications in harassment situations. These facts are covered by the precise definition of school harassment contained in the proposed law, but this issue is also covered by specific provisions, which in particular impose new obligations on platforms. Finally, I will put before their contradictions those who, not without some bad faith, would suggest that the text has a repressive aim. More repressive, you say, it is in that it creates a crime; but you plead for heavier penalties based on the grounds of aggravating circumstances. Let us be clear: this crime, linked to a clear definition, will lead the whole society to better protect our children. Finally, I would like to take this final reading to welcome once again the action of the various stakeholders involved in the fight against school harassment: the national education services, the schools and the professionals within them, the associations, the medico-social staff, the judiciary and the law enforcement agencies. In conclusion, I would also like to thank parliamentarians for the various sensitivities, several of which have made it possible to clarify or enrich certain aspects of the text. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] When examining the text at first reading, I recalled that school is in many ways the mirror of our society. The result is a requirement of responsibility on the part of the representatives we are. I believe that the exchanges we have had, which have enabled us to reach a broad consensus, have given everyone an opportunity to defend their position and to be heard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u56	In the general debate, Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u57	First of all, I would like to say how much debate on this text is a symbol on this very difficult day. Yes, fraternity and respect are strong values that we must defend every day. Whether it is through the experience of the school environment, through the feedback or as part of the review of this bill, I believe that each of us understands that school harassment is a complex and dramatic phenomenon that affects students in all schools, social classes, and all ages. It was therefore urgent for national representation to address this issue in a serious and applied manner, so that the discussions could enrich the ideas proposed. Mr rapporteur, I would like to thank you for giving us the opportunity to advance the protection of our children. Today, many parents feel destitute in the face of this growing phenomenon, which sometimes remains taboo while many children suffer. Let us never trivialize their evils and their words! [[The rapporteur applauds]] The failure of the CMP – the Joint Joint Committee – has highlighted differences of opinion which clearly show that the subject of school harassment is not yet well understood by all. So, like members of the IDU and independent group, I do not agree with the definition of school harassment as the Senate saw it, that it would exclude teachers and mentors. I would like to make it clear that this is obviously not a mistrust of teachers, whose work and dedication I constantly salute. At the end of the shuttle for this text, I regret that the definition chosen is also limited. I fear that acts of harassment or cyber-harassment by a group of young people, some of whom are not in the same institution as the victim, will eventually lead to different punishments, while the trauma they will cause will be the same. The phenomenon of harassment finally takes many forms and that is what makes it difficult to understand in the context of legal action which must be well calibrated. However, there are many tools at our disposal, the first of which must be prevention. I will regret once again the lack of nurses, doctors and school psychologists who would be able to listen to and accompany the children in need. I am pleased, however, that the Senate added the CDI of the education assistants that we mentioned only a few weeks ago. This six-year period is still very long, but I believe that this is a first step towards opening up opportunities for those who wish to engage, particularly in rural settlements. [[Ms. Michèle Victory applauds]] I will use this forum to express the hope that we can finally move forward on the number of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH) and on improving their working conditions. AESHs are the indispensable supporters of children with disabilities, who are also often still subject to harassment. The people who surround our children every day must be able to fulfil this role of listening, and on this point Article 3 rightly refers to training, which is very important. Above all, however, one must break a taboo in national education: yes, there is harassment in institutions, and even in the vast majority of classes. It is therefore necessary to encourage schools to be even more vigilant, and to ask the principals to identify every fact that has been reported to them, so that they can adapt the strategy of struggle in their schools. Also and above all, there is a need for the directors, principals and teachers themselves to be accompanied. Finally, since I refer to the tools of struggle that can be put in place, my group wishes to note its incomprehension with regard to the impossibility of moving towards a solution that allows a harassed student to change his or her school without taking into account the problems of the school card, when the change of school has become indispensable for the well-being and health of the child. Of course, everything must be done upstream so that a harassed student can continue in his or her school, where he or she has his or her markers and comrades. Of course, as our previous debates have shown, it is not impossible for a child to make such a change. But the law or regulation should be able to say it explicitly. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In any event, the IDU and independent group will vote in favour of the bill, hoping that the progress it contains will help as many children as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u58	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u59	School is the place for the emancipation and construction of individuals as enlightened citizens. It is at school that children acquire the knowledge and knowledge that will enable them to build themselves. It is also at school that they learn sociability, respect for others and the fundamental values of life in society. Only, school can also be the place of many pains. Oral and physical harassment, violence, humiliation, isolation, denigration: these are serious and intolerable behaviours that young children suffer at different times of their schooling. Too often, those who suffer from this violence face misunderstanding or silence. Many try to reduce or even hide this pain. First, we had to understand and see this phenomenon for what it is: it is based on group effects and a sense of impunity. The victims had to – and still have to – be decriminalized, to whom it was sometimes said that if they were bullied, they might have been a little responsible. Let us make it clear: the victim never bears in her the source of her harassment. Understanding was the first step; Protecting must be the second. We must therefore be clear: if this bill will not put an end to school harassment, it is a necessary act to better target, name and combat this scourge. The Liberties and Territories Group regrets that a compromise could not be reached with the Senate, which finally rejected the text. We regret it all the more because a number of provisions passed by the High Assembly have enriched the bill. It is a pity that this disagreement has crystallized around the creation of a specific offence of school harassment. The issue seemed to us more on the side of the scale of penalties which, unfortunately, at the end of this reading, will not be sufficiently proportionate. We say again: we do not oppose the creation of a specific offence of school harassment – this will make it easier to identify it – but it is not an end in itself. In our view, the prevention, detection and long-term support of student victims is the prerequisite and the priority. The creation of the specific offence of school harassment may have a deterrent effect, but cannot be a lasting solution to the shortcomings of schools in their duty to protect pupils. Similarly, we consider that criminal punishment cannot be a complete substitute for educational punishment. To that end, we welcome certain measures in the text, such as the possibility of offering CDIs to education assistants. This provision, which takes back what we had voted in the context of Michèle Victory's bill, will give some stability to front-line student support staff. This new right could have been extended to the AESH, which is unfortunately not the case. We strongly deplore him in view of their role in this fight, especially since the inclusion of students with disabilities necessarily requires the guarantee of a benevolent environment, free from the harassment they are often the targets of. Finally, we wish to express our regret at the fact that the measures on cyber-harassment are not further developed. Harassment goes beyond school and takes on pernicious forms on the Internet and on social networks; It's probably the most common form today. It would have been more appropriate to force online platforms, which foster a sense of impunity. We believe that this area should be an integral part of the fight against harassment, and we note that the text does not meet this need. In any event, we will vote again in favour of the text. I repeat my conviction that against this scourge, which affects too many young people today, prevention, detection, accompaniment and listening are our first tools to reduce this violence. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Michèle Victory also applauds]] This will require better training and awareness-raising of the educational community and school medicine, which requires more resources. In view of the terrible effects that harassment can bring, our commitment must be, more than ever, continuous and total.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u60	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u61	Let us begin by saying that in spite of all the disagreements and invectives, nothing is better shared in this Chamber than sadness and revolt at the scale of school harassment. The estimates, if they vary from one organization to another, agree at least to describe its massive or even systematic nature: 5.8% according to the Directorate of Evaluation, Prospectiveness and Performance (DEPP), i.e. 700000 young people; 22 per cent for UNICEF, or 2.6 million children. There is therefore a reference to one to seven pupils per class; It's not nothing. When one entrusts his children to the school of the Republic, one waits for them to be protected, not only from the cruelty of their comrades, but also from the phenomena of pack, which can transform each of them into small executioners. This is the foundation of a civilized society: the protection of the weakest by the collective. What society do we prepare if we are not able to give this example to our children from an early age, as soon as we learn about community life? "The school is the mirror of society," said Mr. Macron. If our society is ruthless, I don't want school to be so. This bill, in its purpose, is therefore welcome. Yet, while it is claimed to prevent tragedies, I feel like I am witnessing a somewhat sad farce, a play whose third act is similar to the first: the return to the identical of a text that has been criticized many times here, and wisely amended by the Senate – once is not customary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u62	Many times criticized, but every time voted unanimously!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u63	Of all this, it is no longer trace, as if we had never discussed it. The parliamentary shuttle is of no use, you detriguing everything in its passage, and here is the same work on the same profession. Therefore, in my turn, I will have to repeat myself: no, it is not desirable that a new offence of school harassment should be created, as provided for in Article 4. This is inefficient from the point of view of justice, given the minority excuse.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u64	Oh, you held him!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u65	Above all, it is completely devoid of any preventive interest: no child will worry about the state of criminal law before going to harass his little comrade, let us be serious. You'll tell me this crime is mostly for adults. But it's even worse: what is the idea of creating confusion between peer harassment and abuse by responsible adults in institutions, when sanctions already exist for them! If school harassment is to be addressed – and needs to be addressed – let's start by recruiting Education Assistants (EDAs), who are understaffed almost everywhere, while at the outposts to detect bullying. Let us begin by filling the positions of doctors and school nurses, who are able to identify and treat the resulting damage. In the state, there is one nurse for 1,500 students, one doctor for 12,000 children. Let us begin by assigning to the directors the landfills they demand, which will allow them to do something other than administrative. Let us start by recruiting a sufficient number of psychologists and social workers. Finally, let us start by putting resources behind existing arrangements, such as the PHARE programme, officially deployed in five academies, with this flat which it makes students assume the role of references to harassment, at the risk of putting them in difficulty vis-à-vis their peers. There are also educational commissions in colleges and high schools, or the national protocol for dealing with harassment situations. And above all, in order to measure the effects of these devices, why not incorporate the measurement of harassment into the performance indicators of the 230 Student Life program, as we proposed by amendment? What is the point of stacking devices if they are never funded or evaluated? What's the point, if not, of giving a cheap impression of doing something? This criminal overbidding seems to misunderstand an exercise of communication...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u66	A communication exercise?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u67	...and, let me tell you, I find this frankly irresponsible. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] The victims of school harassment, too young and too many, deserve better than such a text. They deserve better than our parliamentary comedy, in which I no longer wish to play any role, and on which I am happy, as it is and after a final vote of abstention, to see the curtain fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u68	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u69	Many of us will cite these figures, which indicate the extent of the phenomenon of school harassment: on average, two to three children or adolescents per class would be victims. However, such massive figures may not fully reflect the truth: the number of victims is certainly even greater, as the phenomenon is difficult to identify and name. It can take various forms – moral, physical, sexual or racketically harassed – which can also be combined; It takes place at school but can also happen on social networks, in which case it is particularly amplified. In many respects, it is also difficult to detect: it often occurs in silence, and the acts in question are too often interpreted as children's shaming. Adults, who are not sufficiently numerous or trained, are not always able to identify the phenomena of microviolence that are the subject of school harassment. Sometimes even, thinking about doing well, they do more harm than good. This scourge affects all of us, and there is an urgent need to propose measures to combat it. I have said this on several occasions during previous readings of the text: as legislators, it is important that we address this subject; Thank you, Mr. Balanant. On the other hand, I continue to believe that the text, by its imbalance, does not put us on the right track to combat school harassment. Article 1, which enshrines in the Education Code a right to protection against harassment at school, goes in the right direction: a prohibition is formulated in this regard. The fact that children must be protected by the school is a step forward, allowing the educational community to rely on a precisely defined ban. The school must be a safe place for pupils and article 1 is in line with article 28 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to which all children must be able to benefit from the same education and go to school in an environment conducive to their learning. Article 3, which provides for the care of children harassed by school medicine, is a very good signal. But this requires resources; But they're not enough. School medicine suffers from a lack of funding: there are 1 school doctor on duty for 12,500 students, and school nurses, the only representatives of school medicine in schools, are understaffed. This underinvestment weakens the identification and support of child victims or perpetrators of harassment. The same applies to school psychologists, who are nevertheless key actors in the fight against school harassment. Such a measure must therefore be accompanied by a clear financial commitment from the minister, a commitment that we are still waiting for. On the other hand, we oppose the creation of a school harassment offence under the Code of Criminal Procedure. The criminalization of children who commit harassment is in no way a solution to the problem of justice for the victims. Today, articles 222-33-2 et seq. of the Penal Code may relate to school harassment; it is not necessary to complete them in order to decree that it is forbidden to harass. The Senate's proposal to remove the penalty of school harassment by replacing it with an aggravating circumstance, which was certainly not perfect, was rejected. But she was going in the right direction. Prevention, when accompanied by means, is in our view more effective than criminal punishment. But, Mr President, in the absence of a precise, quantified commitment and a timetable specifying the means invested in prevention, the text is unbalanced. It introduces criminal sanctions that will apply immediately after the enactment of the law, while the prevention and support component of victims remains for the time being dead letter, for lack of clear commitments in this regard. At first reading, we tabled an amendment to include the fight against school harassment in the curriculum for moral and civic education. In fact, in the course of these courses, associations specializing in citizenship issues can intervene. We noted a form of generational shift in the approach to cyberharassment; This is why we have proposed that time be devoted to the intervention of these associations, which are familiar with the subject, especially since the teachers themselves say that they do not have the tools to understand the phenomenon at best. The subject of this bill therefore deserves to be addressed; On the other hand, the way we look at it and deal with it is not right for us. As the text stands, the GDR group will therefore abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u70	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u71	"There is always something left of childhood, always..." wrote Marguerite Duras. Jean-Paul Sartre, for his part, said: "Infancy decides. We are convinced of this, and that is why strengthening prevention around the phenomenon of school harassment is absolutely necessary to stop it. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the Government has continued to work in this direction, and this bill allows us to continue this work for our children: they must not be afraid to talk about it anymore and, to that end, they must know that they can and must talk about it; They must not doubt that they will be taken seriously, that they will be accompanied, that they will not be alone, that they will no longer be alone. Yes, much has already been done – as you have reminded us, Minister – thanks in particular to the generalisation of the PHARE programme and the creation of the student ambassadors' scheme. Yes, the educational community is engaged on the ground against this phenomenon; She is much more sensitized than before to this scourge that gangens the walls of our schools and, far beyond now, to the rooms of our children, because of social networks. Yes, associations do a great job on a daily basis, directing and accompanying families who suffer, but also carrying out awareness-raising activities. Awareness has been collective. We are lucid, thanks in particular to the constant dialogue we have with the professionals on the subject: to combat school harassment, everything has not yet been done. In supporting this bill, we believe that our duty as legislators, adults and parents is to protect the children who are victims of it, and that it also requires a development of the law, so that society as a whole can seize this fight and act firmly to combat such acts. The text thus intends to reaffirm within the establishment project the need for the prevention, detection and cessation of acts constituting harassment. Our colleague Erwan Balanant's bill – which I thank once again – aims to ensure that school harassment is no longer a taboo, so that our children no longer feel ashamed of being victims and isolated. The text therefore provides for annual information to pupils and their parents on the risks of harassment, as well as training in the prevention, detection and care of harassment for all persons working in schools. Indeed, we have all repeated it here: it is by raising awareness of this destructive phenomenon that we will improve the protection of our children. It is therefore a new step in the fight against school harassment and violence at school that we must take, because it is a fundamental right to have access to a serene education. The creation of an autonomous crime specific to school harassment is a strong signal, which marks a ban in our society. This is the role of our penal code and this is the role we must play, as legislators: we are providing a clear legal framework for the proper understanding of situations of school harassment. The text is also a strong signal to our children: in order for them to rebuild and testify, we must give them confidence in society. We must show them that we fully recognize their suffering and that there will no longer be any tolerance for the relentlessness they have suffered. The introduction of the offence of school harassment will also make it possible to order the confiscation of telephones, tablets or computers which have been used to commit the offence. We are therefore also going to act, Mr rapporteur, against cyber-harassment and unregulated access of our children to social networks, often constituting school harassment. Colleagues, we must stop the cycle of harassment and stop the spiral in which too many children are trapped. To do this, we must continue to act and train. From an early age, learning how to control your emotions is essential. Training is needed to identify weak signals and, above all, to avoid pack phenomena that destroy so many lives. I am convinced that the fight against school harassment, this commitment that I have been advocating for the past few years as a mother, will find a successful response only when we are all involved and all fully involved in the fight. Goethe already said: "There is always enough strength for everyone to accomplish what he is convinced of. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I am very honoured to have to defend, on behalf of my political group, the last text of the legislature. As you will have understood, the moving Republic Group will of course vote in favour of the final adoption of this ambitious text and a vector of hope for all the children of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u72	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u73	"All affected, all concerned, all responsible": this slogan of road safety, we could apply it to school harassment. We are all affected by the tragedies and suffering to which these violence lead; all concerned, since about 10% of pupils in France are victims; All guilty, as long as we do not take all the necessary measures, as legislators and citizens, to stem this scourge. That is why, during the examination of the text and the parliamentary shuttle, the Group of the Republicans has taken on its responsibilities by granting it its votes, despite reservations rightly raised by the Senate, and I would also like to commend the precise and technical work done by our colleagues at the Luxembourg Palace. Thus, I deeply regret that the CMP could not be concluded and that agreement could not be reached. The compromise was within our reach and the majority there were prepared for it; However, the one from here refused to accept the outstretched hand. The extension of the definition of school harassment to include acts committed by adults, as well as the creation of a specific offence of school harassment, were strong points of divergence. Why did these two provisions cause problems? The broadening of the definition of school harassment may weaken the school institution, in a context of distrust of the school. The existing law already makes it possible to penalise and administratively punish acts of harassment by adults against pupils. By expanding their perimeters, the risk of permanent suspicion is real and dangerous, and you said it yourself three years ago. As for the specific offence, the quantum of the penalty provided for seems disproportionate and, ultimately, not very effective. What is the meaning of such high sentences, which will probably not be applied in practice? Every day we measure the mismatch between sentences and sentences imposed;...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u74	It's criminal sequencing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u75	... it necessarily leads to fuelling the distrust of our compatriots towards a judicial institution which they find to be too lax and cut off from reality. Finally, what remains of the Senate's proposals? Too little in truth, especially with regard to the use of family education for the harassed student, the relaxation of the current school card, and the subject of cyber-harassment. In fact, the latter spread each year earlier in primary education, following the gradual lowering of the age at which students acquire their first smartphone and register on social networks. In a text that is intended to be educational, not referring to cyberharassment is at best paradoxical, at worst unconscious. I would add that the single sentence on cyber-harassment in the text limits its prevention to annual information to students and parents, as if this phenomenon was only a private matter and did not concern the school institution. Similarly, if the launch of an application dedicated to the fight against cyber-harassment at the very time when the bill was being considered in Parliament could be seen as a step forward, it would not exonerate the text from a deepening of the topic. The lack of openness of the majority on the issue of cyber-harassment, while the Senate's fact-finding mission has made serious proposals, is gratifying and revealing of its lack of humility. We see once again, unsurprisingly, its lack of consensus and its low level of opposition. We'll remember it! Despite our differences, however, we owe to the twenty-two children who died in 2021 acts of harassment and, more generally, to all victims, their parents and the associations that support them, to act, and to act not according to an obligation of means, but according to an obligation of result. The Republican Group will therefore vote in favour of this text, but will remain vigilant about its implementation and evaluation. Despite the reservations I have expressed, I am pleased that one of my last interventions in this legislature concerns the school of the Republic, which must, more than ever, regain its full place. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The school is not a place of education, because education is primarily the responsibility of parents, but a place of learning: learning our beautiful language, first of all – far from the pronoun "iel" and other absurdities – and our history, then, which sometimes raises questions, but must make us proud of our ability to live together, especially in these troubled times. School is a promise: that everyone will find their place in society thanks to the values that bring us together, freedom, equality and fraternity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u76	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u77	First of all, I address my emotional thoughts to the Ukrainian people, women, men and children whose daily lives are now shaken by the advance of Russian tanks and the sound of bombs. You recalled, Minister, peace and fraternity are built from school. We have one last time to finally adopt the bill of our colleague Erwan Balanant, in the same wording as the text we adopted unanimously two weeks ago. So you will not be surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are once again supporting the bill with one vote. While we would have preferred a consensus between the two chambers on this text that is essential to the protection of our children, the persistence of two points of disagreement in the Joint Joint Committee and at last reading in the Senate has led us to the final decision. The first point of disagreement is the creation of a specific offence of school harassment. Senators wanted to turn it into an aggravating circumstance for the crime of moral harassment. However, this is the cornerstone of the text – don't miss it, Mrs Rubin. We want to affirm a strict ban, a red line that is inconclusive, clearly understandable by a minor and from which the educational community, parents and victim support associations can work with children, so that our society can evolve and our children can be protected in school. For the school must be a sanctuary of serenity dedicated to the learning of life. It is not a question of putting children in prison, but of telling them loud and clear that respect for the other and his differences is a fundamental value that is respected, without any transgression, within the school. We must also work outside the walls to eradicate the scourge of school harassment, all too often with tragic consequences. In this regard, I would like to welcome the launch, at the beginning of the month, of the mobile app 3018 – you mentioned it, Minister – which should facilitate the detection and follow-up of harassment cases before they degenerate. This tool and the results achieved should be widely communicated so that the harassers realize that their harms will now have a wider audience than the social networks of adolescents, hermetic to parental control. Second point of disagreement, senators wanted to exclude adults from the definition of school harassment so that it would remain only an offence committed by children against other children. They were afraid, indeed, of possible drifts and that some shouted at hue and dia to harassment. On the contrary, without stigmatizing anyone, we believe that we have a duty to recognize that harassment is sometimes triggered, promoted or simply ignored by adults who work in schools, whether they are teachers, supervisors, stakeholders or administrative and medical personnel. The bill will not lead to a legal weakening of the situation of teachers because other legislation – including section 1 of the law for a school of trust, which we passed in 2019 – ensures a balance in this area. Finally, I want to make a wish. The extent to which school harassment cases are often resolved is the remoteness of the victims, either by a change of school or by the removal of the child from the school and the use of family education. I hope that such measures will now be taken only at the last end of the day and that the education system will provide for other types of solutions, such as dialogue, strengthening the cohesion of groups, early detection of cases, but also cooperation with associations that have expertise in the prevention of harassment – I am thinking in particular of Hugo associations! And butterflies. The ostracization of the victim should not be the rule, but the exception. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In order for our children and adolescents to live their schooling calmly, grow up confidently and become responsible human beings, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will support with enthusiasm and conviction the text of our colleague Erwan Balanant.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u78	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u79	[[Applause on a few benches of the SOC and LaREM groups]] Let me begin, Mr President, by commending your commitment as Vice-President throughout this Parliament and this very morning. I also mean the concern and sadness of members of the Socialist and Related Group after the declaration of war by the Russian leaders. We are thinking of Ukrainian civilians, these women, these men and these children trapped in violence. I hope that the governments of our united and generous Europe will be able to put an end to this madness and protect peace. We have had the opportunity to express ourselves on several occasions on the bill to combat school harassment and cyber-harassment, and we have quickly reached a first point: it is necessary to move beyond political divisions and to mobilize against this scourge. The numbers are terrible – Maxime Minot has just reminded them – and the unbearable tragedies that children and families are experiencing must mobilize us strongly. Let us not forget, however, that the phenomenon of harassment speaks a lot of the school climate in general. That is why the fight against harassment requires the restoration of a good school climate, when it is degraded, and therefore by a better recognition of the teachers, the AEDs – who obtain with this text important advances – and the AESHs, for whom the Government – I deeply regret it – has refused to seize the opportunity that could be given to it by placing the bill that I have tabled on the Senate Orders of the Day. We need to improve the conditions under which students grow up by imagining, from primary school onwards, awareness-raising activities related to the college and by giving the educational community the means to match its commitment. This is first and foremost a matter of prevention and training, but also and above all of raising students' awareness. If they are often victims or harassers, they are part of the solution. It is with them that we must move forward. I welcome your commitment to the fight against school harassment, Mr rapporteur, but we differ on Article 4. The Socialist and Related Group, on the other hand, supported the version of the text as amended by the senators. We reiterate once again that the shift in the autonomous offence of harassment in schools in aggravating circumstances to harassment was more appropriate for criminal law, which is based on a proportionate and appropriate sanction mechanism for each situation. We also said at first reading: Fortunately, school harassment is already punishable by law. Increasing the criminal code could be counterproductive. To conclude on this aspect of the offence of school harassment, we will ensure – I know that you too, the rapporteur – that the application of this offence is assessed, in particular in its consequences, even if the next parliament returns to this issue. I am obviously moved to come back for the fifth time in two months on the subject, but today we will note a considerable change for the 65,000 educational assistants in our country, who will finally be accessing a CDI, which will enable them to secure their commitment to the students. I don't think you mentioned that, minister. AEDs are the pillars of our schools. They participate in everyday life in the establishment of a peaceful school climate and thus contribute to the development of the pupils, whom they welcome, listen to and take care of. It is the referent adults who, outside the class, defuse conflicts. EDAs are, however, very poorly recognized by national education. Their working conditions are deteriorating and their missions are growing, especially since the health crisis. Worse still, AEDs are forced and forced to leave their jobs after six years of CDD without being sure to return to their jobs at the beginning of the year. I have received dozens of distressing testimonies from AED concerning their future after receiving a letter from their rectorate reminding them of the current law. This situation is no longer tenable. We need the AEDs, the AEDs need their jobs and the students need the AEDs. Let us finally grant them the recognition they deserve! [[Sylvie Tolmont and Sabine Rubin applaud]] I must confess, Minister, that the reference to an Order in Council to determine the terms of a possible "ACID" is of particular concern to me as I have not received any response to my requests for an exchange on this issue. Your silence is just a reflection of your contempt for the opposition parliamentarians for the past five years! You're smiling, minister, but I don't think that's funny.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u80	Neither do I.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u81	It's pretty pitiful...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u82	However, these parliamentarians have been constantly working on education issues and have invested just as much as the majority. I sincerely regret the attitude of the Government. What will be the future terms and conditions of employment of EDAs? How will the months of interruption be taken into account? What will be decided for the EDAs that came to an end of their six years of CSD a month ago? Of course, we will be attentive to the content of the future decree. In conclusion, I regret that the bill is not accompanied by means commensurate with its ambitions for educational and school health personnel. The latter regularly question us about the difficulties they face. A large number of Members from all walks of life have reminded us, Mr rapporteur, that your ambition will find it very difficult to translate into practice in schools until school medicine is upgraded. Let's face it! [[Applause on the SOC benches]] School harassment is everyone's business and we must protect our children from all forms of violence. Clearly, the bill will be adopted. I therefore hope that it will allow for faster and more restorative responses to students and the entire educational community. It is with moderate optimism, however, that we will support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u83	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u84	We are here for the last time to consider the bill to combat school harassment and cyber-harassment, which our House has adopted twice unanimously. If we regret the lack of agreement with our honourable senators, the removal of the autonomous offence in section 4 and the exclusion of adults from the definition of school harassment in section 1 were red lines that our majority could not resolve. It must be noted, in fact, that the offence of moral harassment is now inadequate to qualify the acts of harassment at school. Similarly, while the vast majority of cases of school harassment are made by students, the legal definition cannot de facto exclude the very rare cases in which the author is an adult. That is why we supported this provision and, in a new reading, we noted the reinstatement of the two articles in their original wording. There are individual tragedies that are also collective and that push us to act in responsibility. I am thinking, in particular, of the suicide of young Dinah, who ended her life on October 5, at the age of 14; It is a sad illustration. Physical attacks, racist, homophobic or sexist insults: violence, which once ceased at 16:30, now crosses the school grid and continues to be more beautiful in the comfort of anonymity of social networks. Dinah is unfortunately not an isolated case: at least nineteen students ended their lives last year under pressure from their harassing comrades. Dinah is the sad face of a scourge that affects 6 to 10 per cent of children. These are families and teachers who find themselves in difficult and often dramatic situations each year. No region, no city, no establishment, no social class is spared. Too often, however, the suffering of the victims has been ignored. Isolation, shame, fear of talking to parents or teachers are all locks that must be broken in order for the law of silence to finally cease. This is where the real challenge lies: to free and better collect the words of the victims. However, it must be recognized that our country has been slow to become aware of the phenomenon and to build a real public policy to combat school violence. Since 2017, we have taken action to make changes in everyday school life, in the prevention of harassment and in the care of victims. I am of course thinking of the introduction of the "right to education without harassment" in the law for a school of trust, promulgated in 2019,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u85	Excellent law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u86	...but also to the generalisation of the PHARE programme since the beginning of 2021, as well as to the application 3018 which has just been launched in order to allow each student to report incidents of cyber-harassment. This bill will make it possible to go even further. It is based on the triptych "prevention, accompaniment, protection". First of all, harassment must be prevented by enshrining a right to education without violence in all institutions, whether public or private. At first reading, the Action Together group had clarified the content of the measures to be taken by the institutions, in order to insist on prevention, which must be improved. The victims, the perpetrators and the adults who care for them must then be accompanied by increased training. In this regard, our group welcomes the retention of Article 3 bis E, introduced by the Senate, on the care of psychological care for victims, but also for the perpetrators of school harassment. Our group had supported this provision at first reading and I am pleased that it has found a positive response in the Senate. Finally, with regard to protection, article 4 creates an autonomous offence of school harassment. But because, beyond criminal sanctions, the first response must be educational, we have also supported the re-establishment, on a new reading, of section 6, which had been removed by the Senate, which provides for an awareness-raising course in order to empower the harassing students. Ladies and gentlemen, the school must remain the place of emancipation, not only by knowing it, but also by learning citizenship. This text contributes to this and I would like to warmly thank its rapporteur, Erwan Balanant, for his constant commitment to the fight against school violence. I would also like to thank you, Minister, for your determined action in favour of school for the past five years, in order to protect our children and prepare them for their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u88	[[Applause on the banks of the Action ens, LaREM and Dem groups]] I repeat, it is with great conviction that we will be voting on this bill, which we have co-signed. Thank you for the progress that has been made in the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u89	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u90	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u91	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 86 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 86 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u92	The next item is the final reading of the proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation (No. 5129).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u93	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u94	This is the last law of the legislature that you will vote today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u95	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u96	Not sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u97	Within the limits imposed on me by modesty, I would like to share with you my emotion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u98	Yes! It's the end!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u99	[[Smile]] I've heard you scream before, Mr. Minot! When I first entered the Chamber twenty months ago, I must say that I was particularly impressed. This is the place where Victor Hugo and Georges Clemenceau spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u100	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u101	Of course, I measured the honour that had been done to me by the President of the Republic, just as I measured – what I continue to do – the immensity of the task that had been entrusted to me and the way in which it should be approached, with both determination and humility. [[Smile]] On that day, President Richard Ferrand, with this humor that signs great elegance, told me that here, "we suffer in silence." It's true that I suffered...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u102	Not in silence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u103	...but I didn't do that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u104	You made us suffer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u105	[[Smile]] I'll deal with the adversarial, Mr. President, rest assured. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I have learned to know Parliament, which I did not know, and I have learned to love it. And I hope you enjoyed working with me. I am speaking here, of course, to the entire National Assembly, not to mention the Senate: my speech is obviously transparent. Indeed, in a democracy, it is quite normal for one to oppose one another, that one does not have the same ideas, even if things must take place with respect. In essence, both justice and politics feed on contradiction and contradiction. Yes, I enjoyed working here, especially in the Law Committee, and I would like to greet Yaël Braun-Pivet, its chairman. I obviously liked to debate, having defended twenty-seven texts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u106	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u107	[[Laughs]] [[Smile]] I also liked the questions to the Government, but especially when the questions came from you, the members of our majority. I don't know where I'll be tomorrow and I don't know where you'll be either. But wherever I am and whatever I do, I will testify to the quality of parliamentary work. Indeed, I am outraged by the way in which parliamentary work is sometimes confined to a caricature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u109	We can of course discuss a text, oppose ideas and disagree: it is the very essence of democracy. But trampling on the work you do on a daily basis is detrimental to our democracy as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u110	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u111	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LR groups]] Let us not be surprised then at the loss of authority, or even at the expression of a certain violence. [[Riressur several benches of the LaREM group]] But let's go back to our sheep. You'll forgive me for the comparison, but one of my lawyer friends said that digression is a bit like adultery: departures are easy, returns are difficult. So I will try to get back to the subject we are dealing with, because it is a magnificent bill. First of all, it is a popular initiative. What does that mean? People have expressed, in the worst of cases, suffering, and, at best, a difficulty or an embarrassment, which you have heard, Mr rapporteur, as we do, and so we are going to do something about it. This is a proposal for a law on simplification, freedom and equality. At this very moment, I am thinking of those women who will no longer have to take out their family booklets to prove that their child is their child. You said it, and I know it, that kind of notion is transparant.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u112	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u113	I have also heard, Mr Minot, the remarks made by Mr Schellenberger concerning the withdrawal periods. I am also thinking of those women who have told us that they have a prestigious, historical name, belonging to our heritage, but that they cannot pass on to their children. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] Finally, I think, of course, with even greater seriousness, of these women who told us that they were forced to bear their name, which is that of their torturer, of their rapist. In evoking this text, I will always remember the words of this 70-year-old woman who, in a letter, told me that she had been raped by her father and did not want her name to be engraved on her grave. That is what this text is about. We are here at the heart of what politics is, which is often criticized. It is politics in the first sense of the word, because politics is helping people to live better. In this case, we have reached our target with this text. I won't add anything else. This text has been discussed many times: you know its essence and all the details. I think we can all be proud of having co-built it, just as I think you will be proud of having voted on it. As far as I am concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly convinced that we have been more than meeting our obligations. There are technical texts that our fellow citizens sometimes struggle to understand. But in this case we started from what they are living to do something that will become obvious. That is why I repeat, I believe that we have made politics in the first sense of the word, that we have taken care of our compatriots, that we have heard the pain of those who deserve our consideration. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LR groups]] I insist, you can be proud of this text. In any case, I am very proud to have contributed to this, Mr rapporteur. This is the last text of the legislature; It's a beautiful text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u114	Mr Patrick Vignal, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u115	Here's a message I received this morning: "Stay tight, please: go to the end. So many lives depend on this bill. Since I heard it, I haven't slept. It means, for my daughter and myself, the end of twenty years of suffering. Her father recognized her at birth and she bears her name. She didn't choose him and never knew him. You have received a lot of messages that bear witness to these same sufferings. This afternoon, the national representation will vote on this bill. Member of the European Parliament, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, thank you for your stainless support: I needed it. On this law, depend on the entire lives that no therapy – I say no therapy – will be able to cure. » That, ladies and gentlemen, is what this law – the keeper of the seals said – of freedom, equality, fairness in the couple. [[Mr. Sylvain Maillard applauds]] This law didn't come out of my imagination or my hat. It comes from the ground and from a collective, whose spokesperson, Marine Gatineau-Dupré, asked me: present today in the stands, I would like to greet her, as well as her collective. This proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation is perfectly republican! I see it as a strong symbol and a new way of developing the law that governs our social life. We parliamentarians must be the best lawyers and representatives of our fellow citizens. I remind you of the first paragraph of article 3 of the Constitution: "National sovereignty belongs to the people who exercise it by its representatives [...]. » In the face of this formidable demand for participation, politics may feel destitute or dispossessed of its power. The French do not want to consume the Republic, they want to participate and co-produce it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u116	Yes, all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u117	Democracy cannot be fiction, and the French want men and women politicians to live up to it, especially in the presidential debate. They want strong answers. When civil society is consulted, it participates! I am convinced that to know the answers, you have to live through the questions. Let us find new spaces, stop the parliamentary inter-self, set up citizen laboratories, discuss the end of life, discuss the climate crisis, make young people a priority, think about the new relationship to work, think about the organisation and administration of the territories after the epidemic of covid -19 – this is what the French and French want, who are ready to debate these issues! Our fellow citizens no longer only want to obey and table a ballot every five years, they also want to join. They have the right to hold us to account for our past, present and future actions. Let us be able to propose a real project of society, a project of territory based on shared values for a strong, united and serene France. If we want the French to find their way back to the polls, we will have to develop an active democracy. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for adopting this text is not an insignificant one. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, with whom I sat on the same benches in the previous legislature. Yes, a union formed on this text. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, including members of the Republican Group; I also thank the senators, mostly from the left, but accompanied by some members of the Republicans, who did not reject the text today. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Dear friends, the citizen force must allow our compatriots to return to the path of the ballot box and the politicians to regain their place!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u118	In the general discussion, the floor was for Mr Maxime Minot.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u119	In the preamble, I would also like to tell you that it was a real honour for the mayor of Étouy that I was in 2017 when I arrived in this Chamber and in this beautiful institution to sit here. This feeling persists, even after I have used so much my vocal cords in this Chamber – I must admit it –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u120	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u121	[[Mr. Ian Boucard applauds]] ... sometimes with fervour but always with respect for this high temple of democracy. We are gathered this afternoon with emotion because we conclude the fifteenth legislature, for the final reading of the bill on the choice of name derived from filiation. This essential subject provokes a debate which enlivens us all and which we approach in the light of our personal situations. The name derived from filiation represents something for each of us; that we want to remove the name of a violent, absent, abusive breeder, or to pay homage to a mother so often forgotten by adding her name, all the reasons are legitimate and must be taken into account. Because this last name, we did not choose it, it was imposed upon us upon our birth according to the provisions of article 311-21 of the Civil Code. It is not only used to distinguish one person from another, it determines belonging to a lineage, family and history. This identity pursues us throughout our lives and we die with it. Maybe that name will make us never forget – or not. This identity belongs to us, and we must be proud of it. But this name also opens up rights and includes duties: passing it on to children and protecting ascendants. The law has continued to evolve in this direction. Since 1985, any person may use the addition of the name of each parent as his or her usual name. Since 1 January 2005, parents can choose the name they pass on to their child: it can be either the name of the mother, the name of the father, or their two names in a chosen order. On average, 3000 people request a change of name each year; It was not until 2014 that the Council of State decided that persons may, in exceptional circumstances, characterize the legitimate interest required by article 61 of the Civil Code. Now, changing the name is a possibility offered by the law, but at what cost, through what efforts, in what time frame and according to what procedures? It sometimes takes two years to complete this important request. Anyone who has never read the disarray in the eyes of a candidate for the change of name who has just become aware of the course of the combatant in which he must engage cannot understand. I still remember certain situations when I was mayor and since I was a parliamentarian. For this reason, the text is intended to facilitate and simplify the ability of any person to choose the name of his or her parents who were not given to him or her at birth and whom he or she wishes to wear, whether by the usual name or by the last name. This text will neither remove any rights nor remove any rights from the father, but it will simply put on an equal footing the breeder and the breeder. Our society is changing: with the increase in single-parent families, the number of single-parent mothers raising a child who does not bear their name is increasing. This leads to administrative complications, not to mention the possible identity problem the child may face, often painful and always confusing, especially for younger children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u123	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] It is therefore necessary to simplify the procedure for changing the name of the minor but also to respect the choice of the adult. You don't choose your family, but it designates you as an heir and, with a name, you can only honor it. This subject, transparant as you said, Minister, is not political; It touches the roots of a family's identity. The law is also there to help people who are experiencing difficulties, and it will facilitate the daily lives of many French people: that is why I will vote, without hesitation, in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u124	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u125	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u126	We are here again to close the parliamentary shuttle of a bill that is very close to our hearts in that it brings a little more humanity to our society.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u128	We can be proud of that. I would also like to thank you, rapporteur, for your text and for your work before and during the examination of this bill. You knew how to listen while being firm to resist the Cassandre who predicted you the worst. I once again regret that some in this House and in the Senate have been wrong in fighting by being hermetic to real suffering in our society. Let's do it again, we're not talking here about changing names for fun, let alone choosing a crazy name, but to lift the weight of a name that sometimes hurts you so much that it becomes a burden. Thanks to this text that we will definitely adopt today, I tell this mother who has to take out her family booklet to prove that her child is hers in every step of the daily life, that it will be over. I tell this young girl or this young man who was the victim of a father or mother who was their executioner and who leaves their name like a red iron mark, that you will no longer have to face a long and uncertain combatant's journey to rebuild and move forward. In refusing to vote on this text, some have neither more nor less told these victims that they should continue to bear the constraints and responsibilities of a situation they are facing. We chose not to be deaf. With this text, it is time to get out of the status quo by removing unnecessary and sometimes inhuman obstacles. Again, this bill does not pose any risk of loss of identity or break-up, as we have heard. It imposes a common and clear framework: the choice to substitute or add another family name can only be made between the name of the father and that of the mother, in accordance with filiation. Words have a meaning: "with respect for filiation". That is why the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) wanted to change the title of this bill so that it would announce a legal framework consistent with the purpose of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u129	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u130	Our group is proud to support a text that meets the interests of the child and facilitates the daily lives of French and French people who suffer in the face of an administration that hinders them in their reconstruction or in their daily lives. The simplified procedure for the change of name to civil status that we adopted at first reading in the National Assembly is a response to these expectations. We have heard the will of honourable senators to introduce formalism, as a guarantee of security and to ensure that the change of name to the civil status does not take place at a glance. That is why, by amendment, we have added a time limit for reflection in the procedure. However, we must stick to a simplified procedure, based on a procedure with the registrar, since that is the very interest of this text. Beyond this bill, I hope that further developments will follow. A mother recently told me of her pain at the mention of "unknown father", which is so difficult for her child who has not been recognized by her father and for herself who too often has to check this box. Yet, in many situations, the father is not unknown, but he refused to recognize his own child. A mention "not recognized by the father", which corresponds more to reality, would then be a lesser penalty for these families. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] To return to the text that brings us together today, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) will vote without reservation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u131	Mrs Vainqueur-Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u132	There are laws that change things and open up opportunities. They are laws that accompany change and respond to expressed and unsatisfied needs. Certainly, this text falls under the second category. It is part of an evolution in this respect. He completed legislative work started in the early 2000s. The Law of 4 March 2002 on the Family Name, adopted under the Jospin Government, abolished the automatic and exclusive transmission of the father's name to the child. It allowed parents to choose the child's surname: either the father's name, the mother's name, or their two names in the order they chose. Until this law, the legitimate child had to bear the name of his father in only three European countries: Belgium, France and Italy. Subsequently, the law of 17 May 2013 opening marriage to same-sex couples was a little further since in the event of disagreement between the parents, the child may bear the names of the two parents joined in alphabetical order. Initially, the 2013 draft provided that the two adjacent surnames would be the rule, not only in the event of disagreement between the parents, but also when the parents would neglect to expressly indicate to the registrar their willingness to transmit only one of the two surnames. Social development now depends on the right to respect for private and family life, guaranteed by article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and on the principle of non-discrimination contained in article 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The European Court of Human Rights had the opportunity to state that the name was an element of identification of the person and that, as such, he was well connected to his private and family life. The fact that the state is in a position to regulate its use does not remove anything from the fact that the patronymic name is first and foremost an essential element of the individual's relationship with others. There is little doubt that the freedom of choice of name has progressed in Europe and can still do so in our country. This text does not push the current framework, but gives it flexibility, allowing it to reconcile the possibility of personal evolution with the stability required by the identity of individuals. In this sense, it alters the situation in a reasonable and balanced manner. Article 1 gives the right to any person of age to bear, as a practice, the surname of the parent who has not transmitted his or her surname, by substitution or addition to his or her own name, in the order that he or she chooses, within the limit of a family name for each of the parents. This right is available to minor children and will be exercised by the holders of parental authority. Article 2 provides that, by application to the registrar of the birth certificate, a person of age may change his or her name by replacing or adding to his or her own name the surname of the parent who has not transmitted his or her name, in the order chosen by him or her, within the limit of a family name for each of the parents. With regard to Article 3, deleted, it provided for the conditions for exercising this right for protected adults. This text is consistent with the responsibility and freedom of parents. It will facilitate the change of names of children, who will not encounter major difficulties and will avoid a sometimes long, bitter or humiliating journey, if they want to match their patronymic identity with that of loving parents. The text complements a legislative movement to which the socialist and related deputies have contributed and subscribe. Fortunately, after the debates in the Senate, the Assembly has the last word. Some of the amendments advocated by the Socialist and Related Group at first reading were adopted. This text is therefore a new point of balance for us. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The members of our group will vote for it because it responds to a social evolution – some would say societal –, resolves difficult personal and family situations and better guarantees a right to the patronymic name, an element of private and family life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u133	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u134	On this dramatic day for peace in Europe, where our work might seem rather anodistic, allow me to have an emotional and supportive thought for the Ukrainian people. By continuing to live under bombs, he gives us the measure of his courage. By continuing to make our democracy work here, it is to theirs, threatened, that we think. A name is a personal and family story summarized in one word. Every Frenchman, every Frenchman, has a name. This is indeed one of the few universal things. At one time, adjectives, trades, places of life or the father's first name were used. Over the centuries, these appellations have been perpetuated. The names reflect the great history of France, its influence, its expansion, its diversity. The name is present at every moment of our life, at every stage of our existence. It is this faithful shadow that follows us everywhere but sometimes wraps us on its darker part, the one that we would like to forget. Indeed, the name can be a form of injustice, a cruel inequality of destiny, a consequence of a right that is too indifferent to the most tragic family stories. It is up to us, as legislators, to respond to this injustice. This bill is fully in this direction and aims to promote a new balance without disrupting the rules of the Civil Code. I would also like to commend the work of our rapporteur. I take this opportunity to thank you, Minister, for your listening spirit, which your teams share. You have shown that doing politics is not only about convincing, but also about listening. While some have the chance to wear their names as pride, others drag them as a burden. The name is an inheritance and for some, it is a cursed heritage, which can only be untied after having undertaken difficult steps. Like you, I have heard many testimonies, sometimes people who are very close to me – I am thinking of my mother. I have listened and felt the suffering and misunderstanding that many experience or have experienced in the deepest of their souls. They cannot be ignored. Behind each name is a story with, for some, its painful pages. However, bearing the name of a violent father, absent or who has never been a violent father should not be fatal. These situations are sufficiently dramatic; How can we, moreover, impose a double penalty on the children concerned, by forcing them to keep the name of the one who did not know how to be a father? As I recall, this bill is not intended to transform the rules of devolution of the surname. In many debates both in committee and in this House, Government and parliamentarians have always been committed to addressing the issue of stability. It is not a question of inventing a name and therefore a life, nor of destroying what connects families. In the name of defending the current principles of devolution of the family name, we have sometimes witnessed some political recovery; I'm sorry. We've seen it, the name is what connects us to our family. Historically, it was each related to the only paternal branch, but it was at a time when women were not legally considered equal to men. Our discussions have highlighted in some people such a view of the family, which I do not share. It is legitimate for changes to raise legal concerns and it is our duty to respond to them, but it is incomprehensible to question this text by pure ideology. In this citizens' house, where we have had the honour of sitting for five years – and will sit for a few more days – I would like to quote Portalis one last time: "Civil laws are made for men, not men for the laws." These words are strong and, centuries after being written, take their full meaning from the reading of this bill, because they are our reality: the vocation of the civil code is to facilitate the lives of our fellow citizens and the whole vocation of our parliamentary work is to adapt the rules of a society to its time, not the other way around. We have the opportunity to correct an inequality of destiny through the law. Let's grab her! The civil code is not a sacred text. Yes, it must be stabilized, but we must also adapt it to the reality of our time. I am therefore proud to commit myself to this text of progress which, in addition to simplifying the situation, offers new freedoms. It represents progress, first of all because it will simplify the process of name change without distorting its symbolic scope. The aim is not to allow everyone to indulge in fantasies, but simply to allow him to take the name of the other parent. This text is also a step forward because it will allow the child to add the mother's name to the father's name as a custom. By this measure, we put an end to unbearable situations. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] More than ever, the Action Together group is proud of the progress made by this text and of the values it stands for both the interests of families and children. We shall therefore vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u135	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u136	In my turn, I would like to express to you my great emotion, first of all for what Ukraine and Ukrainians are experiencing – I had the opportunity to speak on this subject on the previous text – but also because it is the last text of the legislature. Elected from a commune of 700 inhabitants, I arrived in the Assembly five years ago. I have always worked with humility, passion and conviction. I thank everyone I've worked with. We are lucky to finish with a beautiful text. The compromise could not be reached between our two assemblies, the Senate fearing the introduction of a civil à la carte. Following the failure of the Joint Joint Committee,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u137	We tried!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u138	... so here we are again. We, members of the IDU and independent group, understand some of the concerns of senators. The questions asked about this text are legitimate, as it is certain that the name change must never become a trivial act. We believe, however, that the bill responds well to these different questions through the framework it takes care of. For the minor, only a parent with parental authority will be able to choose a common name. The other parent will have to be informed and the intervention of the judge is provided in case of difficulty. As for the change of surname by a major, it can only take place once. In any case, in the event of multiple names, one of the names of the parents must be retained, guaranteeing a form of family stability. This text proposes expected solutions in order to respond to concrete situations experienced by our fellow citizens. Changes in the name of use for minors may have a significant impact on the child, especially when the child is raised by only one of his or her parents and the name of the other parent does not correspond to the family reality, sometimes becoming burdensome to wear. Majors may change their names for multiple reasons, whether a parent has been violent or neglecting, or whether it is to keep a name that might disappear. The current procedure by order-in-council, or that proposed by the Senate as a substitute, seems to us too complex and too slow. Facilitating name change is therefore welcome. We can trust the French and the French. Everyone knows that the change of name is not an annoyance and no one would really have any interest in carrying out this heavy step of meaning with carelessness. On the other hand, we agree on one point with the Senate: this text, as it touches upon a fundamental element of the identification of individuals, would probably have merited an opinion of the Council of State and an impact assessment. Moreover, it will not be necessary for the name change to make things too difficult – for example, I am thinking of potential difficulties in dealing with administrations. They will have to be given the capacity to process civil status changes because it is not enough to amend the law; We must also be concerned about its practical consequences, especially since this proposal makes the change of arrangements based on the municipalities. As at first reading, the IDU and independent group will not oppose this text. A balance has been struck so that the measures envisaged do not carry the risk of instability of civil status. I believe, indeed, that the family institution is an important foundation of our society, which must not be upset. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] However, we will have to remain vigilant about its implementation in the coming months and years. Regular monitoring of its effects on civil status and its application by administrations will be required. This text therefore contains significant legal changes; It also marks, in the continuity of the previous laws of 4 March 2002 and 17 May 2013, a paradigm shift. This naturally goes in the right direction. To take your word, minister, it's a beautiful text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u139	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u140	[[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] This text will probably be the subject of my last speech in this House during this Parliament. This moment, necessarily moving, comes to the end of an exciting, engaging and demanding mandate. On my behalf and on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I would like to thank all the staff, administrators and collaborators who have worked their best to enable us to work in good conditions. I do not hide my satisfaction that we are concluding our debates, which have sometimes been hit, with the consideration of a bill which we consider to be positive and welcome, and which has been defended by our fellow citizens and by its author Patrick Vignal, to whom I reiterate my congratulations for the quality of his work. A family name bears a person's inheritance and identity. He follows the individual throughout his life and is more than just an administrative name. If a name is a pride for many of us, for some of us, it can turn into a burden. Many people are sentenced to bear the name of someone who sexually abused or abused them, or abandoned them. It's sometimes the name of a perfect stranger. It is above all for such people that this bill is necessary. Furthermore, the fact that the child bears the name of the person who does not exercise parental authority often causes administrative complications. Often, in single-parent families, the mother alone raises a child who does not bear the same name as her, but that of her father, which complicates daily procedures. Moreover – it is the legacy of a patriarchal society – the Civil Code of 1804 had stipulated in the law that the children take the name of their father. Even today, more than eight in ten children have their father's only family name. To facilitate the change of name is also to facilitate the transmission of the mother's name for those who wish to do so. In recent years, our law has evolved in this area. Since 2003, parents have been able to choose to give their children the father's name, the mother's name, or the addition of both names. Since 2013, in the event of disagreement between parents, the child has been assigned the names of both parents in alphabetical order. This bill is taking an additional step. It provides that persons who wish to do so may, as a practice, that is, in daily life, bear the name of the parent who did not transmit his or her name to them. This will facilitate the lives of many people, including single-parent mothers, who will be able to give their names to their children. It is also intended to allow, once in the course of life, to change the surname on the birth certificate, by simple declaration to the registrar, without having to justify himself. This new procedure, simplified, will make available to as many as possible what is part of the combatant's journey. I would like to thank once again the citizens who have seized this issue and brought their proposals to our attention. The Portemonnom collective has collected thousands of testimonies from people wishing to change their surnames. They make a very clear observation: too many men and women are forced to bear the name of their executioner, too many are for whom their name evokes suffering. As we are about to vote definitively on the text, I would like to address to them once again, on behalf of the Liberties and Territories Group, a very special thought. This bill does not detract from anyone's right, but it grants rights to those who wish to do so. The Liberties and Territories Group will vote for it and welcomes its final adoption. [[Applause on all benches]] At this end of the legislature, I wish everyone my best memory: good wind, good health! Maybe we'll see each other in a few months – who knows?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u141	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u142	I would also like to take advantage of my last speech in the legislature to thank all the staff of the National Assembly for their outstanding work and support. We are about to pass this bill definitively, and that is particularly welcome. Indeed, this vote will change the lives of women and men forced to bear a name in which they do not find themselves, a name synonymous with discomfort or pain. In addition, this text will greatly facilitate the adoption of the parent's name, usually the mother, who did not transmit it. We have all heard the testimonies, the personal stories, of women and men, met in our ridings, who want to change their name or complete it. They describe the unacceptable cumbersomeness of the current procedure: demonstration of a legitimate motive; instruction by the chancery, at the uncertain end; Administrative costs. This weight worsened the pain of those forced to bear the name of a parent who abandoned them, a father or a miscarriage mother. We needed to hear them, and above all to remedy the suffering of transmitting to our own children a name synonymous with violence. Nor could we tolerate the heaviness, sometimes hell, of mothers who raise their children alone and do not bear the same family name as them: they are constantly forced to justify that they are their children in order to carry out administrative or simple actions of everyday life, such as enrolling them in a sports club. These formalities are made even more difficult for mothers of children with different names.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u143	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u144	The family name is a constituent of the identity of each and each one, it allows to be anchored in a family history, while projecting itself in the future, through its transmission. For this reason, it is very important that each individual be as comfortable as possible with his or her name(s) derived from filiation, which they will pass on to their children. Civil registration is not a cold administrative act, it is also the testimony of one or more identities, of a singularity. The arguments opposed by the Senate majority to this text must also be overcome. No, it doesn't weaken civil status, let alone the family. On the contrary, by offering everyone the opportunity to assume their family name, to recognize themselves in the identity they carry, to anchor themselves in a family history that is not synonymous with suffering, we give more strength to the family, in its diversity, according to constructions that evolve over time. This text is even less a negation of the father's role, as we were able to hear in the most conservative fringes of Parliament, particularly in the Senate. This bill is balanced; those who have developed it have been listening to the people concerned; It is circumscribed and offers a concrete response. That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports it. Giving the right to change, and not just asking for change, is a major step forward. The right must be in line with society. Indirectly, the text is also part of an evolution of the law begun several decades ago, in order to better adapt it to the realities of families, and above all to put an end to the rule of the surname as the only possibility. For example, the Act of 4 March 2002, as amended by the Act of 18 June 2003, granted parents the right to choose the child's surname by giving him or her the father's name, the mother's name, or both. This possibility is still too little known to parents, which should encourage us to work on better information. Even today, 80 per cent of children born only bear the father's name. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and on several benches of the LR group]] The text thus responds to an important request for simplification from men and women who wish to change or complete their family names, in particular in cases of abuse by one of the parents. As I said, bearing the family name of the one who abused or abandoned you, and passing it on to his own children, is unbearable, calling for a quick response. Members of the GDR Group will therefore vote for your text, to which they are very much in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u145	Thank you, Elsa!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u146	On the proposal for a law, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u147	While the lights of this House were due to go out tonight for a few weeks, marking the end of the 15th Parliament, we learned that, following Russia's attack on Ukraine, we would be meeting tomorrow afternoon to hear a message from the President of the Republic. Of course, I associate myself with the statements of solidarity with the Ukrainian people of all my colleagues who have preceded me in this rostrum. Despite this terrible news, I have the honour to close the debate. At this end of the legislature, it is up to us all, Members, to take stock of our action, and finally to answer a question: what have I served? Everyone will take stock. But I am sure of one thing: all those who will vote this afternoon on the proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation will have a joint action to be proudly inscribed in the assets of their mandate. Why this conviction? First of all, this text is the result of transparency work. Our colleague Patrick Vignal defended him, with strength and conviction; the working Republic Group has supported it from the outset; it has been developed in close connection with the keeper of seals. Allow me, Minister, to use the words of Alexandra Louis to thank you for your ability to listen, equal to your strength of conviction. The groups of the majority – in particular the Democratic Group – as well as the opposition on the right and on the left, have been the force to propose and improve the text originally tabled. In a pragmatic manner, our rapporteur has even made the choice of incorporating an amendment to the text proposed by the Senate, when this House regained its freedom once the Joint Joint Committee had failed to reach a conclusion. Thus, the text is balanced: the balance between the provisions on the one hand, and the search for consensus on the other, on the other hand, and the convictions, which must never be renounced. Secondly, this bill is rooted in the daily lives of the French. It draws its source both from the commitment of the Portemonnom collective and from our rapporteur's ability to listen, understand and translate these aspirations into legislative terms. It is a text from the ground, which responds directly to the expectations of the French. It is a text of everyday life, equal to women and men. It is a law of popular initiative, as the minister said. It will improve people's lives. He will do good to those whose children do not bear the same name as them and who suffer many daily humiliations, when they have to justify their bond of filiation, forcing them to keep their family booklets at their disposal, as a sesame. He will do good to those who want to bear the names of their parents, because they are proud of this double bond of filiation, which they want to expose to all and pass on to their children. He will also do good to those who suffer to bear the family name of one of their parents, abusive, violent or absent, when being questioned daily by this name is each time an injury to the soul; to those, it will be offered not to carry it any more and to lay down this burden to live better. Finally, this text defends a real ambition. It will be a simplification for the separated parent who has not given his or her name, and will no longer have to ask for permission from the other parent to add his or her name to the child's name, as a practice. This reverses the paradigm, and places the burden of the procedure on the shoulders of the parent who wants to oppose this addition, stressing that no matter what happens, the child already bears his name. It will also offer a simplification to someone who wants to have a name other than that chosen by his or her parents at birth, allowing him or her to express his or her choice once he or she becomes an adult. This will be the end of the obligation to disclose its privacy to an administration, forced by the jurisprudence to seek the existence of an emotional motive, even though its original mission was to seek the legitimate interest. With this text, each person may submit his/her request for a change of name to a registrar who will be responsible, after confirmation of the request, for mentioning the civil status documents. It's a quick, easy, unsubstantiated, free procedure – simple, in short. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] On the eve of the next election deadlines, when the first of the questions remains the score of abstention, it is essential to collectively honour the mission of parliamentarians, at the service of citizens and of the general interest. This text, built by consensus, in order to simplify the law and improve the daily life of the French, constitutes the final parliamentary act of this legislature; It also offers, I am convinced, an additional means of convincing our fellow citizens to believe in politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u148	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u149	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u150	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 72 Number of votes cast 70 Absolute majority 36 For adoption 69 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u151	The rapporteur, Mr Patrick Vignal, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u152	[[Applause on all the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and IDU-I]] I would like to say my pride, for all the French and French, for all those women and men who are going to put down their backpacks of suffering. I really thank the national representation; In these difficult times, it is good to feel the pride of representing our fellow citizens. Thank you, Minister, and thank you, colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u153	[[Applause on all benches]] [[Same movements]] [[Laughs]] [[Same movements]] It happens – it's random! – that for the second time in my life, I preside over the last session of a legislature. Mr Keeper of the Seals, you have just welcomed the work of Members. As this time I am in opposition – temporarily, since the alternation is always before us – I would like to tell you, in all honesty and sincerity, that it has been very pleasant to work with you. He is an elected member of the opposition who wanted to pay tribute to you here. I've already told you, minister – and in my mouth it's a huge compliment: you're a right-wing man – no, sorry, you're a northern man who would deserve to be a southern man! Mr Vignal, who shares this geographical affiliation with me, will also share this comment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Without leaving too much of the reserve that is that of a sitting chair, I would like, as I had done for Claude Bartolone, to say that I was very proud to be Richard Ferrand's vice-chairman. Despite our differences over the past five years, I would like to point out that he has made every effort to safeguard the image and reality of our institution. I want to pay tribute to him here. [[Laughs]] [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] I had pleasure in assuming this function and wish each of you the best – starting with myself. Finally, we will all agree that we have had the chance to work with staff of exceptional quality. We know that without them, the National Assembly would not be what it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1165.u154	The President of the Republic has announced that he will send a message to the two assemblies tomorrow at 14:30, pursuant to article 18 of the Constitution. The Conference of Presidents is convened at 10 a.m. tomorrow morning. The meeting is adjourned.
