ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on better dissemination of crop insurance in agriculture and reform of climate risk management tools in agriculture (No. 5045).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u2	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u3	We are not very numerous this evening, and it is hardly surprising: we come at the end of the journey, from several points of view, especially with regard to this text. Reminding of history does not seem necessary to me; So I'll be very brief. I tell you from the bottom of my heart, I worked with passion on this problem which, 18 months ago, was perceived as insoluble by almost all the actors involved. I once again welcome the determination of the minister who took it with a spirit of decision and an openness to dialogue that made possible one of the largest initiatives in this Parliament: the agricultural Varenne of water and adaptation to global warming, the soil of this bill. Just over 18 months later, a perspective emerged for farmers as to how they could cope with the growing adversity they faced as a result of global warming. Indeed, the latter implies adaptation, so that our extraordinary potential for agricultural production remains, and even for it to be strengthened and attract young people, with the renewal of generations being certainly one of the most serious challenges we have to face in the coming years. So it is with great pride that I speak before you today, because the bill is the result of collective intelligence – rare in politics – and has federated the point of view of actors who were divided in many ways: within the agricultural world, between territories, between sectors, between farmers and insurers. The Joint Joint Committee has worked in the same direction, as the two chambers have been complementary and demanding, in a context that could have put us against each other. We end up with a text that we can all be proud of, capable of bringing the nation together as few other subjects can. Our agriculture is the pride of our country and it honours us. Close to a very old unit, it makes our landscapes an extraordinary mosaic. If we say that farmers make nature habitable, I think they make it kind. It is also about our relationship to food and food. We don't just feed ourselves: in a country like ours, the meal opens the field of possible reconciliations, of negotiations, of a bond that is created. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and on some benches of the UDI-I and LT groups]] I conclude this long sequence with a lot of passion. It is now up to us to carry this text: we must obviously vote in favour of it, but we must also monitor the action of the Government and evaluate public action. It is up to us – each and every one of us – to convince in the territories, so that the reform will be quickly followed up, starting in 2023. This work remains to be done. It will be widely relayed – by consular bodies, trade unionism, cooperation, all the networks of cooperatives and insurers – so that the work we have done will materialize, as early as 2023, to shape the future of our agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u5	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u6	I am proud to be here today, for the successful completion of one of the most structural reforms for the agricultural world. Many of you share this ambition if I believe in the many exchanges we have had. Our future will inevitably be increasingly affected by climate change. We all have in mind the terrible episode of frost in our country last April, which was the greatest agronomic catastrophe of this early twenty-first century. We could also have referred to droughts, floods, hail or weather, which make climate change a cruel reality for agricultural production. I know that we all share the same conviction that farmers cannot bear the cost of climate change alone. They are the first to suffer the consequences of these disasters: a real sword of Damocles weighs on our agriculture and constitutes a major obstacle to the installation. That is why the President of the Republic announced this ambitious reform, on 10 September, in front of young farmers, at Jim's Lands: this reform is their safety belt. What is true for the installation is also true, of course, for the people already installed. Our system of covering risks in the agricultural world is breathless: we all agree, on these benches. All channels are unanimous: the current system is not sufficiently accessible or advantageous, it is too complex, sometimes unfair, and often involves far too long steps – there are many criticisms. The aim of the bill is therefore to make a real overhaul of the system of compensation for crop losses and to introduce a new climate insurance, long awaited by the entire agricultural world. Our goal is not to recast it for one or two years, but for decades to come, in an ambitious way. The work on this issue has been numerous and of high quality. In this regard, I welcome the efforts of the rapporteur, Frédéric Descrozaille, and many of you, who have also participated, for many years. This work is based on those initiated by my predecessors, Didier Guillaume and Stéphane Travert, whom I salute. Many systems have been considered. No project has been successful, because – I have the firm conviction – none of them were based on the principle that guides us and that lacked the principle of national solidarity. I say again: our farmers can't, can't face climate risks alone. The first essential element of this reform is the Government's commitment to significantly develop national solidarity, by financing the climate risk insurance system and raising its coverage to €600 million, which is a significant budgetary effort. The concrete translation of the budget announcements will take place within the framework of the 2023 finance bill, once the parameters have been agreed. The announcements of the President of the Republic are now included in the first articles of the text, following the considerable work carried out in the Joint Joint Committee. Support for national solidarity is a paradigm shift in climate insurance, in line with the commitment of the President of the Republic. The second key principle is that the new system is based on universal coverage. Thus, every farmer will have access to it, regardless of the crop, whether it is insured or not, unlike the two systems that currently exist, competing for certain crops and leading to the unanswered leaving entire parts of our agriculture. The third principle is that of greater accessibility, thanks to the reform of climate multi-risk insurance – crop insurance – which currently covers only 18% of the area, not because farmers would be bad managers, but because it is not sufficiently interesting or accessible, and is too expensive. It is through the very construction of the system that we will make climate risk insurance more accessible to farmers: it is the famous second floor of the new climate insurance system. Fourth principle: the reform requires more regulation, through the creation of a pool pool that mutualizes risks or the development of a common actuarial technical pricing, i.e. greater transparency in the setting of prices, in order to strengthen confidence in the insurance system and ensure that the risk is equitably distributed among all. Finally, fifth point, the new system relies heavily on national solidarity, with the third floor allowing the State to assume the risks in the event of disasters above a certain threshold. I repeat, I would like to pay tribute to the work of Parliament, which was intense and very well guided by the rapporteur, dear Frédéric Descrozaille. It is also the fruit of a collective, on every bench, regardless of political opinion: everyone considers this reform to be imperative. Parliamentarians from all walks of life have been passionate about agricultural issues. For the past two years, I have worked with you: the texts were numerous, the debates were intense, but still of very high quality. Thank you very much for that. The text of the Joint Joint Committee proposes a very good balance. It maintains a three-storey climate risk management architecture. The first floor belongs to the farmer, until the franchise. The second floor is under the responsibility of the insurer; In this respect – the bill now makes it clear – the aim is to make maximum use of the tools of the European omnibus regulation, as well as the subsidy of premiums and the most attractive thresholds possible for farmers. The third floor, which falls under the jurisdiction of the State, is that of the loss threshold. This is the architecture of the climate insurance reform. If you pass this bill and your colleagues in the Senate do the same, in forty-eight hours, we will have the foundations of this new house – the overhaul of insurance and climate risk coverage. I made a commitment before you to complete this bill before the end of the legislature. Thus, this new architecture will be implemented as of January 1st of next year. It will require the vote of appropriations in the next financial laws, even if the law already indicates a target of 600 million euros, in accordance with the commitment of the President of the Republic. However, the details will still have to be refined, but very important details, since they are all the mechanisms and criteria envisaged by this reform. In addition, what is indispensable to me is to clarify this famous Article 7 concerning the regulation and pool of mutualisation. Finally, it will be necessary to complete all the provisions for the implementation of the reform. In short, as you can see, the work is still long but this stage was essential and tonight's vote will be a date. I have already had the opportunity to tell you this: when I compare the Spanish agricultural policy with the French agricultural policy, I note that my counterpart relies on two policies, the common agricultural policy (CAP) and climate risk management. However, with this text, with its planned recast, we are equipping our agricultural policy with an incredibly valuable tool for decades to come. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I have just welcomed the work of Parliament, and I would also like to welcome the work of my services and that of my colleagues in the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery, without which reform would not have been possible. I will make the same determination to implement it as to defend it. I am pleased that this ambition has been shared by national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u7	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Herth spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u8	Allow me to welcome our excellent Minister for Agriculture and Food, our no less excellent rapporteur and to greet all of you, excellent colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u9	[[Smile]] Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u10	By putting an end to all the Assembly's work on agriculture during this legislature, there is a rich mosaic and an impression of a law of guidance that does not say its name. By proactively addressing climate risks, this text is the cornerstone of this legislative work. Our farmers are at the forefront of climate change. We simply tell them that the State will always be at their side by guaranteeing national solidarity. Agriculture has not changed so much since its origins, more than ten thousand years ago. It has always been a matter of combining the potentials of soil, climate and plant to make the most of it through human intelligence. The result here is wheat fields, there meadows for breeding, elsewhere from forests and, for fish farming, water is the support, but the principle does not differ. Looking at it well, we have intervened in various ways on all these pillars throughout the legislature. First of all on human activity to ensure the balance of trade relations through the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all, called the EGALIM law, supplemented by a second text. I am also thinking of our rich exchanges on the future common agricultural policy, the regulatory framework for agriculture, if any. Other legislation should be mentioned, such as the Act for the Protection of Land for Agricultural Activities and Marine Crops in Coastal Areas, or the Act on Transparency of Information on Agricultural and Food Products. I will mention in particular the text of ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA or CETA) which has revealed a real line of ideological divide between us, echoed in a recent report on the food autonomy of France. For my part, I prefer the term "sovereignty" because it would be dangerous to give in to a temptation to retreat: France must remain a great agricultural nation and it needs access to export markets. So rather than rejecting the very principle of a trade agreement, let us work collectively to improve its contours by mirror clauses. On the theme of soil, Jean-Bernard Sempastous has brilliantly defended his bill to regulate access to agricultural land. It also includes provisions to combat the artificialisation of soils within the framework of the law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, known as climate law and resilience. In the same text, the issue of the carbon footprint of agricultural activities is addressed, and since then, Minister, you have launched three labels for carbon sequestration techniques. By going to a farm in my constituency on the occasion of the informal summit of EU agriculture ministers, you have seen that the momentum is in progress even if we are only at the beginning of a process which is, in many respects, a matter of experimentation. Thank you in any case for your commitment on this subject that I care about. As far as plants are concerned, the question of means of crop protection has been at the centre of our discussions. First, through extensive work on the glyphosate output, which resulted in a balanced solution. This is Parliament's most important role. As soon as you arrived at the ministry, you took the problem of beet yellowish with the law of 14 December 2020. More than the derogation on the use of neonicotinoids, I remember the impetus you gave to research to bring lasting solutions. It is indeed vital to support agronomic research in the field of plant genetics: it is as strategic as the positions we take on artificial intelligence or on green hydrogen. Finally, I join you in your fight for the enrichment of assolations by the cultivation of legumes, a guarantee of the resilience of our agricultural model. Let me turn to the climate, the main theme of this discussion. The Group of the European People's Party will vote with resolution on the text before us. This is not the only brick that we will have brought to the building: I will add to it the provisions of the Energy and Climate Act, which accompany the development of renewable energy on farms, whether it be photovoltaic or biogas; or the Government's commitment to winter rainwater reserves and the outstanding work of the National Forestry Board (NFB) and the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment (INRAE) on adapting our forests to global warming. Thus, through all these texts, we have reoriented our agriculture towards a more sustainable and resilient model, I simply insist, by strengthening the four pillars on which it has been based for millennia. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We will leave to our successors the vast subject of generational renewal, since almost half of the farmers will retire in the next legislature. The attractiveness of the trade will be a key to succeeding in this renewal, as will a little benevolence for a profession that has always been at the rendezvous of the great challenges of the nation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u11	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u12	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u13	It is a pleasure to meet you, Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, at this particular moment: we are living in the last hours of the legislature. We will have much debate about agriculture and farmers during this term – and when I say "a lot," I don't mean "too much." Indeed, farmers live in a large part of the territory and we have a special affection for them: they represent our roots, the history of France, whether it be metropolitan agriculture or ultramarine agriculture. The independent UDI group will vote on the draft law resulting from the work of the CMP. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to our colleague Frédéric Descrozaille, who has worked hard and conscientiously. I will also have a word for the minister: I particularly appreciated the intelligence you have put at the service of the agricultural cause and the humility you have shown. The subjects we are addressing are indeed difficult, and if the question of agriculture in France, Europe and the world were so easy to solve, it would have been a long time ago that solutions would have been found, particularly with regard to the mother of battles, to take up an expression that is customary to you, namely the income of farmers. Earlier, at 20.00 p.m., a screening was organised by Eric Girardin in one of the rooms close to the Chamber on the missions to the poles, particularly the North Pole, to measure climate change. I attended with our colleague Jean-Claude Leclabart. However, as I said to our colleagues Sylvia Pinel, Guy Bricout, Agnes Thill and Antoine Herth, we are aware of the difficulties that climate change causes to agriculture and the assurance of agricultural production, and we have the chance to live in a country like France. That is how Mr Descrozaille, with your help, has worked on this issue of agricultural insurance, which I welcome. Compared to other countries in the European Union or beyond – just look at what is happening in Ukraine, a few hours away from home – we have the chance to be able to grasp the problems pragmatically and try to find solutions. I will not take stock of your action, as Mr Herth rightly has done, but I will say that, in addition to the challenge of agricultural income and the feeding function of farmers, there is that of the renewal of generations, which was mentioned by the same Antoine Herth, but also that of the artificialisation of the soil and of the role that agriculture can play in energy production. I do not know where we will be in a few months' time and what your position will be, Mr.Minister, but on this last issue, we must remain attentive to methanization, to solar energy on the ground. And as far as the wind sector is concerned, we must be very vigilant in considering that the 28 million hectares of useful agricultural area (SAU) have the primary function of feeding the French, then, on export, the other citizens of the European Union and beyond. It's a very delicate subject. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I reiterate my sincere thanks, congratulations and encouragement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u14	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u15	Climate hazards have always been at the heart of the agricultural world's concerns. But under the effect of global warming, extreme events – so far punctual and bearable – are now the norm. Every year, bad news comes out. During this quinquennium alone, the farms had to deal with three waves of drought and weather, not to mention the frost that decimated part of the crops, vines and orchards in 2017 and 2021, to which are added numerous episodes of hail. To cope with this new situation, agricultural practices and territories are trying to adapt. The introduction of protective equipment in the face of climatic hazards, varietal selection and better water management are all attempts to respond to climate change. Unfortunately, this is often insufficient and, in this context, crop insurance should theoretically take over. However, the current system, based on competition between two schemes, is inadequate: less than 30% of farmers are insured, so the weather is often synonymous with economic losses and, above all, human tragedies. We are all aware of this: there was an urgent need to develop this assurance system. My main regret is that this bill will be slow to materialize. It was announced two and a half years ago by Didier Guillaume, your predecessor, Minister. This text could have been voted on before, in the interests of farmers, and we could have evaluated its efficiency. On the substance, I am in favour of the proposed text. It seeks to create complementarity between public coverage and the insurance system through the creation of a three-stage compensation mechanism. In doing so, it clarifies the responsibilities for climate events. The current hazard will be taken care of by the farmer; the significant hazard will be the responsibility of the subsidized insurance; Finally, in the event of exceptional hazards, operators will be able to count on the support of the State. The text also encourages farmers to ensure that compensation is modulated on the basis of national solidarity. In short, it seeks to ensure the financial viability of the insurance system while ensuring its attractiveness. The contours, which were initially too vague, were considerably clarified and secured when the text was examined by the Senate and then by the Joint Joint Committee. The financial trajectory ensures a dedicated budget of 600 million euros. As for the annexed report, it sets out the objectives to be achieved with regard to guaranteed agricultural areas by 2030. Together, the text and the report introduce visibility and readability for our farmers. Another positive point is that insurance premiums can be adjusted if farmers have invested in antifreeze systems or drought control. As I am convinced of the need to encourage our farmers to invest in these schemes, I am in favour of this. The Olympic average will remain the standard for compensation for crop losses. This is regrettable since global warming is calling into question the relevance of this historical benchmark, which no longer allows for proper coverage of farmers. I hope that the French Presidency of the European Union will be an opportunity to make progress in the negotiations on its revision. I will add a word on the governance of the scheme and, in particular, the pool of insurance companies. If the reference to an authorization to legislate by order does not allow us to understand the exact contours, we now know the broad outlines. Insurance companies will be able to share their business data, design a common technical tariff, or even pool their premiums to reinsure them. This should make it possible to offer more suitable offers, covering more territories and cultures. This also risks favouring agreements between insurance companies and pulling prices upwards. I would also like to welcome the contributions of the Senate, which has tried to circumscribe the effects on board and to ensure that the scheme is compatible with competition law. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Convinced that no farmer should relive the dramatic consequences of last April's black frost episode, the Libertés et territoires group will vote in favour of this bill. Our agreement concerns the broad guidelines of the text: we will look with great interest at the ordinances and decrees on which the efficiency of this reform will depend.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u16	Mr Sebastien Jumel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u17	Our concern has remained the same since the beginning of the examination of this text: how will we guarantee the safety of our farms in the face of the rise in climate change and its collateral effects without public insurance that protects farmers? Climate change is now a reality facing our farmers. It is not just an increase in temperature and a change in rainfall, it is also an increase in variability, instability and intensity of extreme events: late freezing, hail, reversal of frost periods, etc. Faced with these phenomena, the system is failing today: the National Fund for Risk Management in Agriculture – FNGRA – no longer meets the needs and has seen its means siphoned to ensure the extension of the private insurance sector. What then? Reforming the system, why not, but replacing it with what? For years, we have been talking about the need to review risk management tools in agriculture, but any real progress on the subject is systematically rejected, any prospect of public management and solidarity swept away by the supporters of the insurance model. Contrary to this logic, the Communist parliamentarians defend the idea of a public organisation of this risk, in which farmers and public decision-makers would determine the objectives and means of achieving them, in particular by providing sustainable resources to meet the needs identified each year. We believe that the private sector alone will not be able to meet these challenges, at least not with the same guarantees for all our farmers. This is already what we are seeing today for the safety protection of farms. For example, only 20% of the crop area is covered by a multi-climate crop risk insurance contract. [[Several Members of the Republican Group arrive in the Chamber. – Brouhaha]] It must be noted that, despite the changes made by the CMP and some corrections which are in the right direction, the text presented today continues not to fully embrace this ambition, since it is in fact a reform in favour of private insurance, a sector which until now has not played its part. As a result of deterrent tariffs, only 30% of cereals, 20% of vines, 4% of orchards and 1% of grasslands are now insured. However, the text provides for a quasi-duopoly of insurers, Pacifica and Groupama, which share 70% of the market, to be guaranteed both European and national public financial support. The ongoing quest for state support to ensure the artificial profitability of private insurance products seems questionable to us. Anyway... Our right-wing colleagues are coming in bulk, and they're in shape! I salute my colleague Maquet, who has arrived straight from the Somme. [[Brouhaha persistent on the benches of the LR group]] While climate change is likely to cost our farmers more and more, these same insurers have just announced together that the price of crop insurance will rise from 10 to 25% in 2022, an increase that they can confidently decide, without risk of losing insured persons, the ever-increasing risk of making farmers dependent on insurance. The other stuttering of this text is its universal character. How to brag it while the device may exclude... Mr. President, I can't hear myself talking!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, we are listening to Mr Jumel.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u19	But we can't hear anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u20	I usually have a big voice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u21	Silence, if you don't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u22	If you don't listen, pretend!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u23	For my part, I am listening to you, Mr. Jumel!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u24	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u25	Thank you, you're an excellent president! Brittany and Normandy often walk together. The other stuttering of this text – this is the case – is its universal character. How can we boast that the scheme may exclude farmers who, for lack of income or cash, will not have the means to purchase crop insurance? Consolidating the calamity regime by severely penalising farmers who do not subscribe to a multi-risk climate contract, this seems to us to be the congenital malformation of this text. Finally, this text, which is intended to be a three-stage rocket in climate risk protection, seems to us to be still too imprecise, even if it has a multi-year orientation. The details of the applicable thresholds and the conditions for the fixing of contracts, which are still referred to the decree and orders, are not known. We would need immediate guarantees in a system that does not take sufficient account of income inequalities between operators. Minister, the issue of risk will become crucial for tomorrow's agriculture. Today we are cautious about the model that you are presenting to us, which risks once again leaving some farmers at the edge of the road, giving the private insurance system full latitude. We do not want individualization of risk management and management solutions. The regulatory measures will have to specify all this. That is why, not out of distrust but out of prudence, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain. Thank you, colleagues, for your random attention!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u26	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u27	This is certainly one of my last speeches on agricultural issues, although I am proud to present to the committee tomorrow a very good assessment of the EGALIM law, which opens up prospects in the few fields that have been explored. You will see, Mr.Minister, a beautiful express parliamentary report, which provides an objective assessment. But in this House, it is certainly the last agricultural debate, and the last opportunity, in the enthusiasm of our colleagues The Republicans who are very happy...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u28	It's the polls!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u29	... and whose joy is communicative, to salute the voluntarism of the minister and the pugnacity of the rapporteur. I would also like to commend the negotiating capacity of Senator Laurent Duplomb, who has made it possible in extremis to find a solution. Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and related group will abstain in a benevolent way on this text. I'll explain why. [[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] I admired the profession's call that the status quo was no longer possible and I welcome the method – a form of transparency through a broader debate on water policies and climate change prevention – as well as your commitment, rapporteur. We have had many discussions, which have revealed as many points of divergence as convergence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the Chamber and we are talking about agricultural issues!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u30	[[Smile on a few benches of the LR group]] You're very lonely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u31	On these issues, we have two points of agreement. First, there has always been an unwavering link in the agricultural world between the mutualist, cooperative movement, solidarity in general, and prosperity. Agricultural prosperity has been built on regulation and sharing mechanisms. It is the whole agricultural history of the world, and it is the history of French agriculture. We are part of the continuity of this movement. Secondly, we agree that the status quo was simply not acceptable. Today, only 18% of the area is insured, 1% in a crop as strategic as arboriculture, 33% in viticulture and field crops: we are far from the account. Some sectors are totally orphaned in the face of calamities which themselves are increasing. This tired system leaves farmers and crops unprotected in the face of an increasingly recurring danger linked to climate change and the intensification of both drought and rainfall phenomena – this summer's freezing episode reminded us of its tragic nature. It therefore needed to be reformed. We remain humble because during the five years of the previous legislature, we had not initiated reforms on this subject when the issue was already on the table. We recalled that there were other prospects. For my part, I was very much in favour of a public social economy system in the form of a compulsory voluntary contribution. In one amendment, we proposed another way: solidarity within the sectors, with the contribution of the most profitable sectors to the benefit of the sectors at risk, particularly in the act of production. But these proposals could not be adopted if they were not refined because they had not been sufficiently debated. Even if we are not certain of the relevance of this economic model, its prospects seemed to us happier than those of the coordinating and regulatory body that you are going to create, despite the formation of a pool and a whole social democratic management. The way we were proposing would have been to avoid giving too much power to private insurers whose recent tariff increases raise fears of an out-of-control system. These are the reservations that make us choose to abstain. I would like to conclude by reminding you that, despite all its merits, this assurance system must not distract us from the imperative of preventing climate risk. Agriculture – the Agriculture Fair will allow us to verify it – has many solutions to offer. We must work to develop these agronomic solutions, promote adaptation and good management of the regulation of renewable energies, by promoting methanisation and photovoltaics, so as not to compete with food production. This is a great project for the next legislature, to which we will have to work together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u32	All right! So you'll have to come back!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u33	In this area too, prosperity requires good regulation. Finally, since this is my last speech on these subjects, I would like to welcome the quality of the dialogue we had with the Minister for Agriculture and Food, as well as the formation of a kind of community of agricultural enthusiasts that produced fine fruit during this parliamentary term. We must rejoice at that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u34	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u35	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u36	[[Smiles and applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Thank you very much for coming in and listening to me, ladies and gentlemen! It has been months since the parliamentary majority called for legislation to protect farmers and wine producers from increasing climatic risks. Proceeding directly from our President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, the draft law on crop insurance, of which we are considering the latest version, constitutes a strong response to preserve the agricultural system in the face of the weather. This text, which is the result of numerous work on risk management, is also part of the continuity of the Varenne agricole de l'eau et de l'adaptation à changement climatique, in which we participated. I salute the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Julien Denormandie, who led this Varenne in a spirit of listening and dialogue; I salute my dear colleague Frédéric Descrozaille, rapporteur of the text, whom I thank...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u37	We thank him too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u38	...of his work and his negotiations with the senators, which allowed us to reach an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee. Finally, I greet Jean-Baptiste Moreau, our head of the text. This is a collective work, a dossier that we have brought to bear and that we are delighted to see success, for we love our agricultural model; on all benches, we want to preserve it. The bill recasts climate risk management by creating a universal compensation regime, a new system, a three-storey rocket, as the minister likes to say: the first floor corresponds to the risk that the chief operating officer can take and that will remain in his charge; the second to insurance, the compensation can be calculated from the Olympic average or the three-year rolling average; the third to national solidarity. Whatever their crops, farmers will therefore benefit from state intervention in the event of losses due to a climate accident and exceeding a certain threshold. Dryness, rising temperatures, snow, frost, hail, flooding, rain or storm can cause dramatic consequences for them at any time: destruction of vegetative organs, drying out, lack of fertilization of grains, rotting of roots, breakage of branches. From now on, this damage will be compensable! As co-chair of the Assembly's "Vine, Wine and Oenology" Study Group,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u39	With our colleague Jacques Cattin!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u40	...I know how much this text was expected by French wine growers, whose freezing in April ravaged on average 30% of the crops. In my region, Occitanie, losses exceeded 50% and reached 100% in the most affected sectors. The Government responded with an emergency plan of EUR 1 billion: we must salute it! Yesterday, in the Tarn, Mr.Lauch – the new prefect – and I met winemakers from my constituency: they all talked about this episode and said they were waiting for this bill. This will allow intervention only in the event of an emergency, on a case-by-case basis, but at the appropriate time, within a clearly defined framework; Above all, we will be able to anticipate the new risks to be met in order to take account of the evolution and transition of our agriculture. The progress of the Joint Joint Committee should also be welcomed: visibility over three years, with a commitment from the State of EUR 600 million per year, given to farmers to reassure them; Annexed report to confirm compliance with the European omnibus regulation; crop differentiation of the loss thresholds triggering the payment of State aid. We have the three stages of the rocket, we have the frame; we have a year left to work on the content so that as of January 2023, gradually, taking into account the temporality of each crop, the insurance harvest takes shape. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] "It is by going to the sea that the river remains faithful to its source," said Jean Jaurès. Since the beginning of our term of office, we, members of the La République en marche group, members of the presidential majority, have remained faithful to our commitments to enable the actors of the agricultural world to live in dignity of their work, in order to make them proud of what they are, of what they are doing, and to improve their retirement. We are committed to providing farmers with a strong crop insurance system to combat climate hazards: we will vote without hesitation for the final adoption of the text!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u41	[[Extended applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u42	[[Approval on the benches of the LR group. – Excamations on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] Just a few days away from the long-awaited reunion between the French and their farmers at the fifty-eighth International Agricultural Fair, we are gathered here for the final vote on this bill, long awaited by all sectors. We have had the opportunity to say so in committee and in session, the current insurance system is out of date: it no longer corresponds to the reality experienced by operators who have been suffering the consequences of climate change for years. It was therefore necessary to act quickly, even if, I repeat, I regret the choice of a timetable which leads the national representation to examine in haste, a few weeks before the presidential election, a major text. In addition to the expedited procedure, this bill is by its nature difficult to amend, especially since section 40 of the Constitution has sometimes been overused by a chair of the Finance Committee who, decidedly, does not give us any gifts – but I greet him with friendship. During the first reading of the text in the National Assembly, the group The Republicans, while supporting your approach,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u43	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u44	... had pointed to several shortcomings and concerns,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u45	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u46	... whether these are financing guarantees, the application of the text or its compatibility with competition law. Its final wording shows that its passage into the Senate will have improved and clarified these points.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u47	Long live the Senate!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u48	In the Joint Joint Committee, discussions were long and difficult, since the Government had finally agreed to negotiate only in the days before the Joint Committee was held. Let us acknowledge that on the eve of the International Trade Fair for Agriculture, the pressure of agricultural actors and sectors has not been alien to this shift: the lack of agreement in the Joint Joint Committee, interpreted as a message of distrust towards them, would have been of the worst effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u49	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u50	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Everything is well that ends well: I can only rejoice that the National Assembly, the Senate – I welcome the abnegation of the Senate rapporteur, Laurent Duplomb – and the Government have reached agreement on this text, which responds to a request expressed by the channels for almost twenty years. I would also like to thank my colleagues Fabrice Brun and Jean-Marie Sermier, the defender of Jura's yellow wine, who participated in the Joint Joint Committee. First of all, the principle of budgetary and operational visibility during the first years of existence of the scheme has been validated, which is reflected in the title of the text, which has become a draft policy law. The Senate will have made it possible to agree on an overall envelope of 600 million euros, which will be reached gradually during the period 2023-2030. The work of the senatorial majority will also have combined the application of the franchise and subsidy rates of the most advantageous insurance premiums, i.e. 20% and 70% respectively – European law does not allow any more – and the intervention of the state as soon as 30% loss for the least insured sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u51	It was very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u52	I also welcome the guarantees provided for in article 7 in order to further regulate the Government's power to legislate by order, in particular with regard to compliance with competition law and clarification of the role of the State as receiver of data held by insurance companies. Finally, I welcome the adoption of Article 16, which provides for the submission to Parliament of a report on possible complementary reforms of climate risk management tools in agriculture. The aim of this bill is to replace an obsolete system in an emergency situation: further developments, including at European level, will have to be considered very quickly in order to further adapt these tools. In addition, this article states that the same report "takes stock of the concrete actions taken by the State under the French Presidency of the European Union of 2022 to initiate a revision of the International Agreement on Agriculture of the World Trade Organisation signed in Marrakech in 1994 concerning its part relating to the Olympic average and the aid of the "green box". Between the health crisis, the crisis in Ukraine and the presidential campaign, I have no doubt that this is done without any difficulty – new proof, if needed, that this bill should have arrived much sooner. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] However, this text was expected, and the actors would not have understood that we were not reaching an agreement to develop an outdated system, I repeat, for far too long. As the Senate has cleared out the imprecise contours of the bill, members of the Republican Group will support it and vote in favour of it. Minister, I am waiting for you on Tuesday, if you wish, at the Hauts-de-France stand to taste our maroilles!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u53	On the bill as a whole, I am seized by the Republicans and IDU groups and independents of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u54	It is with pride and emotion that the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote this evening in favour of one of the last texts of the legislature, a bill similar to the action of the majority and the Government for the last five years:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u55	Colleagues, a little attention, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u56	... awareness of climate adversity, resilience to its effects, attention to a fair distribution of its cost. In this respect, the agricultural sector, and in the first place the farmers themselves, have been at the heart of our concerns: I take this opportunity to greet my colleague Nicolas Turquois, whose commitment is well known, and who unfortunately was unable to attend this evening. To support farmers is indeed to care for thousands of men and women who feed us, ensure our food sovereignty, guarantee us quality food, respect for the environment and animal welfare, and that we cannot allow ourselves to bear the cost of collective action, the one that leads to global warming. This is in the interest of this text, which is at stake beyond partisan logic, as evidenced by the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee and the complementarity of the progress made by the Assembly and the Senate. On behalf of my group, I welcome the investment of the rapporteurs, Frédéric Descrozaille and Laurent Duplomb, who have made it possible to achieve a balance on many points, starting with the creation of a universal compensation scheme for climate hazards. Over the past five years, the cost of claims due to these events has doubled compared to the period 2005-2010. However, the farmers' insurance system was not at work: compensation for a drought event was thus delayed for months. In addition, due to the complexity and cost of this system, which makes two schemes coexist, few farmers have insured themselves; In short, some find themselves without a solution because of lack of insurance, others poorly compensated. It was therefore necessary to recast the system; It is now done with this text and we welcome it. The scheme will be structured in three stages and the burden will be shared between farmers, insurers and the state, depending on the impact of the hazard – current, significant or exceptional. The agreement reached between the deputies and the senators made it possible to give a programmatic dimension to this law by including in it the annual budget announced by the President of the Republic, to the tune of 600 million euros. Secondly, the original draft law proposed to include the possibility of raising the public subsidy rate to 70% of the premium amount for contracts guaranteeing at least 20% of harvest losses, in accordance with the European omnibus regulation. As a result of parliamentary work, it has been possible to revise this subsidy rate upwards if European law changes in this direction, but also to allow farmers to choose the method of calculation used to assess their loss of production, between the Olympic average and the three-year rolling average. The agreement reached in CMP also made it possible to include in the text that the third floor of the risk-covering scheme, the one provided by the State, will be compensated for cultivation, while the second floor may be covered by operating contracts. The text provides for the creation of a major tool, that of a pool of insurers, in order to pool data and risks within a single body. On our initiative, the obligation to join the group of insurance institutions that wish to market subsidized insurance has been included. It seemed essential to avoid exposing this pool to the risk of anti-selection by some insurers. Finally, a report has been annexed to the draft law in order to define, in consultation with the Committee for the Guidance and Development of Crop Insurance (CODAR), the scenarios to take full advantage of the possibilities offered by the omnibus regulation but also to differentiate the thresholds for crop losses or cultivation triggering State intervention: a trigger threshold of 30 per cent for crops for which insurance offers are poorly developed and 50 per cent for others. Colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to completely reshape climate risk management. In addition to the support mechanisms proposed, we believe it is essential to promote farmers' awareness of the importance of ensuring that they do so. Crop insurance should not be considered as a financial investment but as a safety belt that can save a farm. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Minister and rapporteur also applaud]] This text is fully part of our overall reflection on French agriculture. This is the last debate on this subject and we wish, on this occasion, to welcome the unwavering commitment of our Minister Julien Denormandie. Of course, we will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u57	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u58	The rivers are drying up. The water table is emptying. The seasons are reversed, with Christmas on the balcony and Easter in underwear. Floods are also increasing and, as a result, the French vineyard is growing too fast. The meadows are dying. Bees, in the air, die and no longer pollinate, or little. The worms, underground, no longer dig their galleries. We live in slow motion a disaster movie. The seven plagues of Egypt, next door, it's cat's pee. A report from the Senate warns us that "we must expect for the future more and more frequent agricultural droughts and a severity unknown to this day in France" – and senators are calling for adaptation measures for our agriculture. The National Biodiversity Observatory urges us to "transform agricultural and forestry practices" in order "to mitigate the intensity of the [...] major environmental upheavals that humanity is facing today. » But what do we do? What are we doing today? What are we doing in the face of these great environmental upheavals? What do we do for humanity, for the French? What do we do to transform, to adapt our agriculture? Nothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u59	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u60	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] What are we simply doing, very prosaically, to reduce the production of maize, which, greedy with water, demands millions of litres in irrigation? Nothing. What do we do to get out of monocultures? Nothing. It's not the object, it's not the subject. Faced with these immense, tragic challenges, you remain small accountants. Because what is the purpose of the bill that you are introducing here and that we are going to vote? It is that disaster becomes a market! It's that insurance, banks, your friends in finance, make a profit on the disaster!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u61	I would ask you to listen to the speaker, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u62	To sum up: last fall, following frosts in the spring, rains in the summer, damage in the fields, President Macron announced universal crop insurance. What to do with the calamities of the past and, above all, the calamities of the future. But this is in no way universal insurance: it will be privatized insurance, expensive insurance paid, subsidized insurance. Groupama and Pacifica are already warning: in 2022, the cost of their crop insurance will rise from 15 to 22 per cent. What will happen to small producers, small farmers? Quentin Bourse, wine grower in Touraine, at the head of a small estate of twelve hectares, has just sent an open letter to Emmanuel Macron because he learned last month that his insurance would raise from 25,000 to 48,000 euros. "A 90% increase," he strangles himself. His bank left him only two options: either "to give in to this ecological racket by paying a ransom," he said, or the immediate cessation of his agricultural activity. The text voted this evening, which seems trivial and technical, reveals in truth a state of mind – and even a spirit of the state, of your macroist state. Even in the face of natural disasters, even in the face of current disasters, you must resort to banks, insurance and finance. You are unable to imagine, or rather you do not want to manufacture, public protection against these risks, mutual coverage, mutual assistance between farmers and society. And the climate shock must become a source of profits for pension funds and shareholders. [[Persistent Murmures]] Above all, you put sparadraps on a hemorrhage. It is a upheaval of our country and our economy that must be prepared. And you're here sticking roughies, scotch tips on the shipwreck of the living. What would it take? I just read a biography of Franklin Roosevelt. In 1940, before Pearl Harbor,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u63	Can you listen to the speaker speaking?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u64	... military spending was only 2% of the US budget, compared to 42% in 1944: 20 times more in four years! On January 6, 1942, a month after the United States entered the war, the president set industrial targets: 125,000 aircraft, 75,000 tanks, 35,000 anti-aircraft guns... That's why he doesn't count on the invisible hand of the market! This "inventory of democracy", as he nicknames it, "the state is the organiser," he says; "the State shall finance it by means of tax"; "the State directs productions to the priority needs of the army"; "the State shall control the allocation of raw materials"; "the state manages situations of shortage". Nevertheless – I quote Roosevelt – "this state is not a substitute for private enterprise. It does not have a competent staff to intervene directly in the productive activity. » Thus the war was won and so we must win the climate war: by directing the economy, i.e. channelling the country's energies, capital, labour, intelligence and know-how, towards the transformation of our agriculture, transport and housing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We are promised, according to different forecasts, + 2, + 3, + 5 degrees Celsius; the Arctic is deep; 70% of vertebrates have disappeared in 30 years, 80% of insects, 30% of birds... It's a Pearl Harbor of the living we know! A Pearl Harbor that urgently calls for a general mobilization: that's the momentum we're waiting for, that's what we're looking for! Instead, in the face of the vastness of the dangers, you keep until the last week, until this last evening, a mindset of annuitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u65	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u66	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u67	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u68	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 121 Number of votes cast 114 Absolute majority 58 For adoption 114 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u69	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u70	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As we come to the end of the parliamentary work of the legislature, I would like to thank the national representative, on the basis of the text that you have just voted in very good unanimity, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this text reflects relatively well the parliamentary work we have done for many years. First of all, because this bill, which comes from the Government, is primarily the result of important parliamentary work. In this regard, I would like once again to welcome the work carried out by the rapporteur, Frédéric Descrozaille. Secondly, because this work was carried out within the presidential majority – I would like to greet the person responsible for the text Jean-Baptiste Moreau – but also with oppositions, in the National Assembly and in the Senate. This work with the oppositions – I would like in particular to highlight the work we have done with Senator Laurent Duplomb – has enriched the text. This bill has also given rise to many arguments. I must say that I very much appreciated the fact that members of the opposition to the left of the House said that they would abstain with benevolence. This, I believe, reflects the quality of the debates that we have been able to conduct: we did not agree on everything, but we understood why. Finally, as with any parliamentary work, there are both habits and surprises. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] There's a habit first, Mr. Ruffin: definitely, until the last day, you say anything! It's something constant. I sincerely believe – as I say to you with respect, Mr Ruffin – that this shows a huge lack of work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u71	Let us not reopen the debate, Minister, because Mr Ruffin will not be able to answer you. You can thank the parliamentarians, but nothing more.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u72	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I agree, but to say absolutely anything to do with the effects of the rostrum, until the last day, when groups of the majority and the opposition have really worked on this text, fed the debate and tried to move things forward, does not represent the greatness of parliamentary work! I think we all agree on that. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Smile on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Besides, there are also surprises. Tonight, as our debates record a number of hours on the counter, I saw, for the first time, the Republicans do the curtain, but in favour of the text! I say it with great benevolence! It is quite wonderful to finish the legislature on such a signal. Thank you so much for the quality of the debates we have had.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u73	I want to make a point of order for personal fact!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u74	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u75	The minister's final statement is very legitimate if it is intended to thank each other, but if it reopens the debate, I am obliged to give the floor to speakers who do not have the opportunity to speak. That makes perfect sense. Mr François Ruffin has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u76	The Danone Group, the minister, is now buying a litre of milk at 33 cents, while the minimum price is known to be 40 cents. That's the result of your action! Since the beginning of my term of office, I have committed to ensuring that there are minimum prices...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u77	Thank you, Mr Ruffin, but the Danone Group is not in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u78	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for a law to strengthen parental control over means of access to the Internet (No 5046).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u79	Mr Bruno Studer, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u80	I am pleased to see that we are completing our consideration of the bill to strengthen the use of parental control, after particularly fruitful discussions with the Senate Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteur, Sylviane Noël. With this text, we significantly promote the use of parental control by all parents who, like me, may at some point be lost by the development of new technologies and by the multiplication of devices to be configured. It will now be up to the manufacturers of all devices sold in France to ensure that the connected devices they place on the market have a pre-installed, efficient and easy-to-use parental control. This device, whatever its shape, will be proposed from the first use of the device because it is often the time to set it up, especially when you wish to entrust it to a child. The text resulting from the consultation with the Senate is, I believe, fundamentally balanced. It will allow every actor in the chain, and ultimately the parents, to take on their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u81	While the provisions of the proposed law may, in some respects, constitute an obstacle to the functioning of the internal market, this is justified by the urgent need to protect our children from the harmful content to which the Internet gives them access, be it pornography, of course, but also paedophile networks, incitement to terrorism and violence, hate speech, cyber-harassment or dangerous gambling and incitement to the use of narcotics. I conclude this discussion as I started a few weeks ago, telling you that, of course, I am not naive: parental control devices are not infallible, neither are parents. Nevertheless, it is their responsibility to make every effort to protect their children, including in cyberspace. This bill will greatly facilitate their task by providing them with a pre-installed parental control device on all connected devices that will meet a minimum standard of quality. Before we give room to the representatives of the groups that have worked with me on this bill in a constructive spirit, allow me to thank you, colleagues, for all the texts that we have adopted since 2017 and that allow us, gradually, to civilise for the most fragile of us, that is, our children, the digital space. We have very often joined in these texts, which I would like to recall: the law on the supervision of the use of mobile phones in schools, supported by Minister Jean-Michel Blanquer; The law on combating the manipulation of information, which includes provisions on media and information education - this work, which has already begun, is still before us; the law to combat hateful content on the Internet, known as the Avia law - I take this opportunity to pay tribute to our colleague's determination; the Act to protect victims of domestic violence, which gives the Authority for the Regulation of Audiovisual and Digital Communication (ARCOM) - formerly the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA) - the power to control pornographic sites that are too easily accessible to minors; the law to regulate the commercial exploitation of the image of children under the age of 16 on online platforms, which protects children influencers, which I have had the honour of defending with you in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education; the law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, providing for the famous Internet permit for young children; the law to protect minors from sexual crimes and offences and incest, which created the crime of sextorsion - you recently recalled it, Secretary of State; our colleague Erwan Balanant's bill to combat school harassment, which we will consider on Thursday for final reading; Finally, this bill is intended to encourage the use of parental control. This text is neither moralist nor liberticide: it simply empowers parents to exercise their responsibilities. It is not easy to be a parent in general, let alone in the digital age. That was why they needed to be given additional means to fulfil their responsibilities. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Frédéric Reiss also applauds]] As I speak here for the last time, let me at last warmly thank Alexandra Feuillade, head of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education. I would like to thank him very much for all the work he has done over the past five years: many texts, many reports of fact-finding missions have been examined – this will still be the case tomorrow morning. Let me also thank Chloé Marchand, who accompanied me on the law on combating the manipulation of information, the law on protecting children's influencers and the law on encouraging the use of parental control. I would also like to thank all the services of the committee. Allow me to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the support you have shown on all the benches on the occasion of the two texts that I have defended. The first-reading examination showed us that we could move forward together on good ideas – we are never immune to a good idea. I hope I have been able, as committee chair, to embody to the end the state of mind that I have wanted to be mine since 2017. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups and on a few benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Marie-France Lorho also applauds. – Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard and Mrs Agnes Thill rise and applaud]] Finally, Mr President, since you have confirmed to me that you are assuming your last perch this evening, I would like to express my gratitude for the way in which you have accomplished this mission: to chair parliamentary work is not an easy task. Thank you from the bottom of your heart for the quality of your presidency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u82	Thank you, Mr. President! The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u83	It is not without emotion that I am here this evening, a few days from the end of the 15th Parliament, for the adoption of this bill of which we share, with Cédric O and the whole Government, the guidelines. This is the last text for which I, in turn, have the honour of going up to the rostrum, and I am very pleased that it is on this subject. Since I served, child protection issues in the digital world have become increasingly important both in the public debate and in my own action. Of course, when I was appointed, I first put all my energy into fighting physical violence against children. With a child dying under the blows of his parents every four days, my work focused on the physical protection of all children who were victims of violence, including, but not limited to, children who were victims of child welfare. As a result of my travels and exchanges with parents, meetings with associations such as the Union nationale des associations familiales (UNAF), the Observatoire de la parentité et de l'éducation numérique (OPEN), Génération numérique, e-Enfance, the Conseil français des associations pour les droits de l'enfant (COFRADE), Point de contact, the Fondation pour l'enfance, the Fédération nationale des écoles des parents et des éducateurs (FNEPE), I realized not so much the importance – I was already aware, like all of you – as the urgency of the situation. Indeed, if digital is a chance for our children and adolescents, to whom it opens an immense field of learning and personal enrichment, it can also be a formidable weapon turned against them. Between exposure to inappropriate content, confrontation with ill-intentioned individuals or simply loss of control in the daily use of tools, there are many dangers. That is why we must act without delay, without squealing, with children and parents alike. This is the subject of the action taken over the past three years. With the kids, first of all. There have been many awareness-raising activities: I am thinking in particular of the announcement made by the President of the Republic on 18 November of the deployment of the Internet passport. The aim is to develop the digital skills of students from the class of CM1, through the PIX platform, in order to enable them to be actors in their protection from an early age. They will then obtain in sixth, symbolically, an Internet passport equivalent to a digital proficiency certificate. Of course, effort cannot and must not rest entirely on children. Accompanying parents is also essential. Bruno Studer reminded him right away, it's not easy to be a parent right now – that's what they're telling us. The issue of digital parenting prevails every day that passes. Many actions exist, deployed by associations as well as by digital players, but they are not yet sufficiently coordinated or legible, resulting in a lack of visibility penalizing parents, who all too often tell us that they are deprived of easily mobilizable solutions. To remedy this, we worked with parents at every age group in their child's life. For the new parents, we have introduced an accompaniment that starts from the arrival of the child, with clear public health messages about the use of screens, which can be found in the booklet of the first 1000 days, on the application of the same name and in the renovated health book. These questions arise from this age, before the child's 2 or 3 years of age. It is important to remember that children build themselves by mimicry with their parents: spending their time facing a screen or a mobile phone in front of a young child conditions it in its future use of screens. Because early childhood professionals are connected to our children on a daily basis, it was also essential to offer them digital training. This is now being done, thanks to modules provided for in the training plan for early childhood professionals, which covers 600,000 professionals – a measure present in the framework of the strategy for preventing and combating poverty. In order to go further and to continue to encourage coordination of the devices, on the occasion of the last Safer Internet Day, I announced an action plan for rational use of the screens. As part of this plan, I announced the organization of digital parenting campuses in September 2022 throughout the country, the first of which was held on that day in connection with UNAF. The aim is to accompany parents every year, throughout the territory, so that they can better protect their children in the digital world through awareness-raising activities led by associations that have received the label "campus of digital parenthood". These campuses will address a variety of topics, such as the use of social media, cyber-harassment, excessive use of screens, access of minors to pornography, and protection of children's data. All information on digital parenting campuses is also available online. To this end, we have strengthened and expanded the site jeprotegemonenfant.gouv.fr, which becomes the unique information portal on digital parenthood, with free, continuous and free access, through close collaboration with all digital players, such as social networks, operating system publishers, terminal builders, video-on-demand platforms, telecoms, publishers and video game consolers, television channels and associations supporting digital parenthood. A digital parenting campus with two components, one online, the other physical, an Internet passport, and multiple resources, are thus mobilized to meet a goal: that the revolution of usage be accompanied by a revolution of support and support for parents and children. Thanks to the adoption of this bill defended by President Bruno Studer, we will go even further and tonight's vote will be an important step. The first one actually dates back to November 20, 2019, when the President of the Republic announced, on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, the future introduction of this provision aimed at expanding the use of parental control mechanisms to facilitate dialogue between parents and children and mobilize all households around this idea of better control of the impact of digital tools on our lives and those of our children. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We are very pleased, with Cédric O, to have supported President Studer's bill from the outset, which I thank again for his unwavering commitment on the subject and on the many others he has just detailed. I also thank all of you for having taken up these issues, in a spirit of harmony that symbolizes our common mobilization and ambition when it comes to our children. On behalf of the children and their parents, I thank you for allowing this progress – I hope – through your vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u84	In the general debate, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u85	Digital is now an integral part of our lives. So we have to learn to live with it, if possible in good conditions. These technologies are great tools, with infinite possibilities, but they also have real dangers. We need to protect ourselves, and in particular our children. This is at stake in this bill: how can we protect minors, who are increasingly numerous and younger users? The way you are proposing, Mr rapporteur, is to improve the tool of parental control. Of course, the ambition of the text is limited, but it represents a step forward: parental control is a tool that must not be overlooked. Yet his manipulation is not always obvious. It is therefore necessary to strengthen its ease of installation and use so that parents can use it. This tool must remain an instrument of dialogue. Its aim is to secure children's autonomous navigation on the Internet, based on a relationship of trust with their parents. Of course, this requires a different understanding of the uses of minors according to their age. The stakes and risks are not the same at 6 years of age as at 16 years of age. From this point of view, the text ensures a good balance,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u86	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u87	... in fact much better than President Emmanuel Macron had originally wanted, namely a default activation. If we had adopted this bill unanimously at first reading, we would recognize that two central issues remained: the applicability of this text and its conformity with European law. The work of the Senate has proved to be very enriching; We also believe that the text we are about to vote on is even more balanced and complete. It introduces a distinction between equipment manufacturers and operating system suppliers, which will prevent the law from rapidly becoming obsolete in the face of the evolution of digital technologies and the market. In addition, it explicitly mentions the need to comply with European law. Rule 3 bis, introduced by the Senate, thus makes the entry into force of the text conditional on the response of the European Commission, which has already been referred to it and will be so again at the end of our vote. All of this seems to us to be a matter of common sense. Other contributions from the Senate are welcome: they address concerns raised by the Libertés et territoires group at first reading. Indeed, while the Internet presents dangers as many as various, the original text did not take sufficient account of some of them, such as the protection of personal data and early exposure to screens. The Senate mentions them much more explicitly; We welcome this, even if we would have liked to go a little further – we are nevertheless aware that this text is probably not the right legislative vehicle to achieve this. I come to parental control: if it is a good tool, it has limits and cannot substitute for parental vigilance. Awareness-raising and education therefore remain essential. Much remains to be done, especially to combat early exposure to pornographic content, which is far from being annoyed at an age when children are building emotionally and developing their relationship to their body and sexuality. In this area, we are in a stalemate, and the tool of parental control will not suffice. Since 2020, French law clearly states that the publisher of a pornographic site cannot simply ask visitors to check a box to attest to their majority. Several of these sites are the subject of a warning from ARCOM. However, the law does not specify how to otherwise verify the age of users. We believe it is essential that this reflection continue. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Agnes Thill also applauds]] Until then, and because the right balance must be struck between the autonomy and protection of minors, the Libertés et territoires group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u88	Thank you, Mr. Pancher.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u89	Mrs Muriel Ressiguier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u90	After a concluding CMP, we will take a final decision on the bill renamed by the Senate "Parent Control over the Internet", which makes it mandatory to install parental control tools on digital equipment to frame children's internet access and prevent certain risks. In a few years, digital has indeed invaded our daily lives, especially those of the youngest. The legislative arsenal has not kept pace, and needs to be improved. The challenge is to strike a balance between protecting users and their data and respecting their right to privacy and privacy. Mr Pancher pointed out that it is obviously not a question of platforms, Internet service providers (ISPs) or equipment manufacturers replacing parents, but of providing parents with more means to protect their children in an enlightened way. The average age at which young people are equipped with digital tools is getting older: 44% of 12-17-year-olds had their first telephone before the age of 12, and there are on average five different digital equipments per household. While access to the Internet undeniably offers opportunities, it is also a source of danger – as we all know – especially for young children in the middle of development: they are exposed to a risk of exposure to screens, cyber-harassment or social exclusion. More than 82 per cent of minors have already been confronted with online pornographic content, and the same proportion of young people aged 10-14 report going online regularly without their parents. For their part, eight out of ten parents express concern about the use their child makes or might make of the Internet. It is therefore necessary to provide them with tools to better protect their children. The bill has been enriched by several contributions from the National Assembly and the Senate. Our different exchanges and mutual listening – which is rare enough to be stressed – have made the text evolve in the right direction. For example, the decree that will establish the modalities for the application of the parental control system will be submitted to the opinion of the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL) before being published. This will be an opportunity to address CNIL's recommendations regarding facial recognition, advertising targeting or the protection of minors' personal data. In addition, equipment manufacturers will be required to provide users with information on the risks associated with digital use and on the available means of prevention. However, the project remains extensive, and the protection of minors on the Internet may run counter to the financial interests of equipment manufacturers, ISPs and platforms. These powerful lobbyists also influence European law. It is necessary to change the latter if we want to protect ourselves better, so that our personal data are no longer considered as a commodity and that companies can no longer monitor and induce our behaviour and that of our children for commercial purposes, in particular by targeting advertisements, or by encouraging us to spend more time in front of the screens, which is particularly harmful for the younger ones. In this area, much remains to be done – we have already discussed it extensively. Children spend an average of four hours a day in front of the screens; However, according to several studies, prolonged exposure causes anxiety, attention difficulties or speech and sleep disorders. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] With this text, Mr rapporteur, you are putting forward a useful and welcome first step. That is why, as in previous readings in committee and sitting, we will vote on your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u91	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u92	[[Smile]] She went through a cyclone to come!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u93	The crisis of the covid-19 highlighted the damage associated with the abuse of screens in children. The observation is worrying; It calls for strong responses from both public authorities and families. According to a study by the National Observatoire de l'Activité physique et de la sedentarity, 93 per cent of children and adolescents far exceed the recommendations in this regard. While the time they spend on screens should be limited to two hours a day, they spend an average of four hours a day. Containment has amplified these already alarming figures, with 62 per cent of children and 69 per cent of adolescents increasing screen time during this period. We all know the harmful effects of this phenomenon on the lives and health of young people: poor long-term postures causing pain, food imbalances, difficulties in concentration, lack of physical activity, sleep disorders, visual fatigue... The increase in electronic screen time was also associated with mental health problems: during the covid-19 pandemic, there were more serious problems among children who consumed more screens than those who used them more moderately. The correlation between screen exposure time and children's mental health needs to be accurately measured. These consequences are increasingly documented. They bear witness to a massive phenomenon which, far from self-regulating, will only increase in the absence of proactive measures. The possibility for parents to control the content consulted by their child is a central part of the prevention policy that we call for in order to avoid the misuse of screens. Proximity device par excellence, parental control must be thought, under penalty of inefficiency, proportionally and measured. Article 1 of the proposed law aims to impose on manufacturers the obligation to install a parental control system and to propose its activation from the first time that the device is put into service. I reiterate that we share the concern not to make parental control automatic. Like any other filtering software, it does not derogate from the rule of complete control by the user, who must keep the freedom to activate or disable it. We regret that the bill remains silent about the drifts of certain parental control devices, in particular features that may be intrusive. The CNIL recommendation of 9 June 2021 recalls in this regard that "some of the intrusive features tend to transform parental control into a form of supervision that involves certain risks: the risk of altering the relationship of trust between parents and the minor [...]; the risk of hindering the process of empowerment of the minor [...]; the risk of getting the minor under constant supervision" – which would normalize liberticide practices. The CNIL calls for priority to be given to parental control mechanisms that respect a principle of proportionality, a principle of transparency with regard to the child, and finally a principle of security of the minor's data, in order to ensure that third parties do not have access to information about the child. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups, as well as on some benches of the Dem group]] The text does not say anything about the protection of children's data. According to many researchers, a majority of parental control devices share personal information with third parties, in addition to being vulnerable to computer attacks. Some of these applications voluntarily transmit data to third parties unknown to the user, for marketing and monetization purposes. This feeds the advertising targeting of children. Over the past ten years, digital advertising spending on children has increased tenfold globally; However, they are known to be potentially more vulnerable and influenceable, and therefore more permeable to advertisements intended for them. Such advertising batoning worsens the damage associated with too much exposure to screens. In the face of this danger, France is lagging significantly behind. No effective measures are taken to combat this phenomenon, contrary to what exists in many countries. Despite the silences of the bill, and despite its own reservations, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u94	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u95	Pornography, violence and hatred, let's repeat, it's no less serious when it's online. The final adoption of the draft law on parental control is an important additional step in the protection of children, as well as a strong symbol of consensus between the two chambers and of all the political sensitivities they contain. The aim is to ensure that a technical tool remains a source of information, pedagogy and accountability for adults, and to avoid anomalous research on the Internet leading to voluntary or non-voluntary consultation of inappropriate content. It is also a question of ensuring that every young person knows what puts him or her at risk, and of promoting dialogue rather than coercion. For all these reasons, we have defended and enriched the text. Include reconditioned devices in the device; provide an information notice on the dangers of the Internet for families; ensure that manufacturers provide users with information about the risks of digital use and the means of prevention: these are the advances we have defended throughout the review of the text. For their part, senators stressed the need to inform parents about the risks of early exposure to screens, a societal concern that has found its place in the text. Suppliers of operating systems are associated with the device: they will be able to assure manufacturers, when their equipment is placed on the market, that the installed operating systems incorporate the parental control tool. President Studer's bill, of which I commend the work, reinforces a comprehensive work that was built step by step during the legislature, to frame the first steps of young people on the Internet and to develop a true accompaniment of parents and children's mentors in this aspect of child protection. Much has been done since 2017 under the leadership of the President of the Republic and our majority. The text is a continuation of these efforts. It will require parental ownership, of which only 46% are currently using parental control. If the proposed law requires manufacturers to install such a system, it will be activated by the user when the device is first put into service. Making adult actors of the device is a key element of this text. Far from de-responsibility, it gives adults away from this problem the opportunity to grasp it and understand its springs. Let us listen to both the dangers and possibilities of the Internet, temptations and aggressions, what must be accompanied and what must be regulated. This text does not restrict the child in his curiosity, his reflection, his access to the world via the Internet: it protects him while preserving his freedom and his thirst for discovery. At the time of the stocktakings, the latest interventions, the pride of having advanced on many subjects, but also the frustration of not having gone far enough on others, I wanted to restate this text in the perspective of what we have done together, in particular in favour of education: compulsory school at the age of three, the mixedness in the school, the development of artistic and cultural education, the deployment of educational cities, a new vision on priority education, free breakfasts in schools, more school mediators, better support for all children towards school, school in the digital society, the fight against school harassment, a new framework for underage influencers or education on the environment and sustainable development, and today the protection of minors on the Internet, with all the actors placed around the table upstream and a beautiful collective management of one of our common goods, namely the protection of children. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] "For a child to grow up, it takes a whole village": illustrating this African proverb and despite our differences, this is perhaps what we have succeeded collectively in working together, like citizens of the same village, to protect our children. These will be my last words in the rostrum for this parliamentary session, before expressing a huge thank you to my colleagues for these shared moments, to the institution and to all those who make it live every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u96	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u97	We are here to finalize a proposal for a law on parental control. First of all, I would like to highlight the quality of the discussions and the work carried out by the rapporteurs of the Senate and the National Assembly. As I mentioned at the CMP, the Senate's addition of Article 3 bis is of course welcome, since the central issue is the applicability of the law and its conformity with European law. On the web, the best is close to the worst, and vice versa. The freedom to surf the Internet cannot be understood as a white-seing given to young people, and parents must be aware of the need to protect their children from the violent and shocking content to which they may be exposed and the action of criminal, terrorist or paedophile networks. Children connect on average from the age of 7 years, register on their first social network at the age of 8 and a half years; At the age of 12, a third of them had already been confronted with pornographic images. Although the majority of parents are in favour of parental control, only 46 per cent of parents report having implemented follow-up solutions for their child's activity. Beyond the fact that most parents are increasingly unaware of their children's digital practices, parental control tools sometimes require computer manipulation that can be complex or even discouraging. That is the point of this bill: the rapporteur, Bruno Studer, is obviously right when he says that the current arrangements are not being used enough. A child's brain is constantly developing, and to satisfy his or her natural curiosity, thirst for knowledge or just his or her desire for play, a child can make bad encounters through his or her smartphone or computer. This is why some schools hold conferences with gendarmes to prevent children from the dangers of the Internet, including harassment. We can only praise these initiatives, but it is also and especially the parents to be the first firewalls of their children in the face of a real danger and threatening cybercrime. Every parent wants to help his or her child grow up in a society where social networks are shaking our republican and family values. Beyond a necessary awareness, they must be encouraged to act. This bill, which provides for the systematic installation of control software and the harmonization of their technical characteristics, should help them to do so. Generally speaking, screen time should be restricted for children under 14 years of age, but 35% of parents feel it is difficult. In the family, it's sometimes like in politics, you have to learn to say no and stick to it. When I became mayor of Niederbronn-les-Bains, a friend told me: Now you have to learn to say no. During my political career, I have checked it over and over again. Tonight, I am speaking for the last time in this rostrum. Allow me, with less solemnity than President Ferrand this afternoon, to say how honoured and proud I have been to serve the Republic in this beautiful house of the National Assembly. Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, dear Bruno Studer, I would also like to have an emotional thought for Jean-Michel Dubernard, who was my first chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs – there was no Committee on Cultural Affairs in 2002. The one that everyone affectionately called "Max" allowed me to be rapporteur of a great law of orientation and program for the future of the school, the law of 23 April 2005. The Minister of National Education was François Fillon, and that is where we imagined the common foundation of knowledge and skills, still in force. In the same year 2005, on the occasion of the centenary of the law of separation of the Churches and the State, under the leadership of President Jean-Louis Debré, I have the memory of a magisterial debate on secularism in which all the deputies who wished to speak, without time constraints, were able to express themselves: a true happiness! [[Applause on the benches of the LR and UDI-I groups, as well as on some of the benches of the LaREM group and among the non-attached MPs]] I would also like to thank President Marc Le Fur, who is presiding over his last session this evening: almost two thousand and four hundred hours at the perch, and with an unparalleled maestria. Well done, dear President! We're a long way from tonight's subject, you'll tell me, though... I am pleased to conclude in national harmony around a text on parental control whose scope can be great in the years to come. The LR Group will therefore vote for this text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR, UDI-I, GDR and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and Agir ens groups]] I will conclude my speech with the words of the poet: "Happy who like Ulysses has made a beautiful journey [...] When we are better here than elsewhere, when a friend makes happiness, that freedom, freedom is beautiful. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u98	Thank you, dear Frédéric Reiss, for this work for many years. Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u99	We are completing our legislative work with the bill to strengthen parental control over means of access to the Internet, and it is with pride that I sit on these benches tonight, because once again, the French Parliament will be a pioneer in the protection of minors in the digital space. In this connection, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President of the Committee on Cultural Affairs, on your contribution on these very important subjects, which are of particular interest to me: dear Bruno Studer, your investment throughout this legislature has allowed us to adopt not one but two preliminary texts to guarantee the safety of our children on the Internet. And it is because we are all aware of the rapid evolution of digital usages and the dangers they entail that this text has been the subject of an absolute consensus, since it was adopted unanimously in the National Assembly and in the Senate. Twenty years ago, Snapchat and TikTok didn't exist. Today, these types of platforms are multiplying at such a speed that it is often difficult for us to keep pace with them. But this is not the case for our children, who have access to it more and more young, and more and more early, and who devote a large part of their free time to it. But these platforms affect the daily lives of our young people, and sometimes in a dramatic way: disorders of bodily dysmorphia, with young people obsessed with what they consider to be defects in their appearance, cyberharassment, access to pornographic content, and I pass it. The virtual causes real evils that our society no longer ignores. The emergence of new connected tools now allows our children to access the Internet on a permanent basis, often making it difficult for parents to control them. Of course, parental control devices have existed for several years now, but the rapid multiplication of connected tools also leads to a multiplication of parental control interfaces whose features and features differ, especially since these tools sometimes require computer manipulation for which some parents may feel quickly outdated. This implies that we reconsider and regularly adapt our legal framework. This is the whole purpose of this bill aimed at strengthening and facilitating the use of parental control. In order to do so, it intends to impose stronger obligations on equipment and services that allow access to the Internet. Thus, Article 1 provides that the establishment of a parental control mechanism is proposed from the first use of the device, which will ensure that parents are notified of the existence of such tools, avoiding this being based solely on their own initiative. In the course of our discussions, article 1 has been enriched with several provisions that are in the right direction. I will mention here the guarantee of free parental control mechanisms, the prohibition of the commercial exploitation of personal data of minors, or the inclusion of all actors in the value chain of the distribution of equipment concerning the obligation to verify the certification of the product. The requirement for manufacturers to integrate an easily accessible parental control device, as well as the requirement for distributors to verify the manufacturer's certification, will also make it possible to ensure that no connected object escapes parental control. These obligations will then be guaranteed by Article 2. As for Article 3, it proposes a harmonisation of the characteristics and features of parental control tools. I fully support this provision, which will make it possible, I am convinced, to facilitate the use of these tools by simplifying complex computer procedures, and thus often discouraging. Finally, Article 3 bis, introduced during the examination in the Senate, makes the entry into force of the text conditional on the European Commission's reply as regards the conformity of this bill with Union law. This provision will address the concerns of honourable senators and seems to me quite consistent. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, while it is the duty of parents and adults to prevent, alert our children and young people to the dangers of digital technology, it is the duty of the legislator and the State to support these developments. That is the whole purpose of this bill, which once again places the protection of children at the heart of our concerns. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group welcomes this. Let us remember again and again: what we are building today is the milestones of the world that we want to pass on tomorrow. Let us preserve the adults of tomorrow today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u100	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u101	Dear Bruno Studer, this will not be my last speech since we will see each other, I believe, again tomorrow. I want to thank you for the work we have done. We can only repeat what everyone said earlier: the consumption of screens has increased considerably from an early age, since the CNIL survey shows that mobile phone access is now at the CM1, whereas these devices were usually entrusted to children at the entrance to the college. We all see in our daily environment that the consumption of screen time and internet starts much earlier in very young children, sometimes even in the stroller. This change in patterns of consumption, if it calls for vigilance given its potential harmful effects such as exposure to pornography, cyber-harassment and access to shocking and violent content or false news, must also alert us as it can lead to serious consequences for the emotional, cognitive and relational development of our children. When we are close to our children, we really see it every day. Let us not forget that the media in all their forms are also a source of access to culture, public services or education. They cannot be systematically identified as responsible for all the evils of our society. They contribute to a form of development for children, but as with all tools, it is their use that needs to be debated so that our children can grow up in a healthy and protective environment. The health crisis has been a revealing factor in the use of digital tools, particularly through educational continuity and the Ma classe platform at home. While they worked well when material, technological and human conditions were in place, these tools raised many questions among teachers, parents and students. These general remarks refer to several observations: the need to protect minors from the possible dangers associated with digital technology, which various recent facts have reminded us of; the need to extend digital education to adults so that they, instead of being mere spectators of their children's uses, are able to accompany them; the need to extend digital access to all, regardless of social origin or location in the territory. Your proposal for a law as adopted in the CMP, Mr. Rapporteur, responds in part to the issue of risk reduction by a simple technical means. It also aims to place at the centre of educational issues the family relationship, which is clearly part of the important levers of a policy that emancipates and empowers – this is a particularly important point in this text. You propose to require manufacturers to pre-install a parental control system and to make it possible to activate it free of charge as soon as the device is put into service, while harmonising the features of parental control. We welcome this step as a first step towards enhancing the safety of young people's use of digital tools. I have noted well, and we have also mentioned this point at the various times of the examination of this text, that you chose not to impose the default activation of parental control, for material reasons, preferring to stick to an activation proposed during the first commissioning; However, the fact that only 46 per cent of parents report using this means to monitor their child's activity, either through ignorance or fatigue, underlines the urgent need for better supervision of juvenile practices. There is also a real problem. As far as manufacturers and ISPs are concerned, we would have liked them to participate in better information for users and to offer training and support content in the long term, because these tools are not always controlled – but God knows if they are at the heart of the consumption of all our citizens. Some of us are already doing this through tutorials, but this is still not enough in view of the technical difficulties many of us face on a daily basis when interacting with all these machines. I therefore have one regret, Mr rapporteur: that this bill does not take sufficient account of the growing inequalities in access to these digital tools, in particular the unequal burden on local and regional authorities in their efforts to equip students with equipment and to cope, at times, with the shortcomings of the State. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That said, the Socialist and Related Group welcomes your commitment on all these issues and, I repeat, supports this bill. We hope, however, that a more comprehensive response will be given to this major societal issue, and if possible at a more global level, beyond our borders, so that all children in the world can be protected and no longer be the potential targets of adult predators. We like to speak on behalf of the French Republic, but we also like to be able to speak to all the children of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u102	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and IDU groups and independents. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u103	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like first of all to express our satisfaction and pride at the completion of this text, of which we are co-signatories and which our House unanimously adopted at first reading, and I would like here to thank its rapporteur. Dear Bruno Studer, we know your long-standing commitment to the protection of children on the Internet. Thank you for working to put this bill on the Orders of the Day for this end of Parliament. You are also very much in the spirit of openness and benevolence that characterized the conduct of our debates in the House and our discussions with our colleagues in this chamber. We can collectively welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee, which recognizes the major advances in strengthening parental control to better protect our children from violent or inappropriate content that they may encounter online. Indeed, while the Internet is a formidable vector of emancipation, learning and openness to the world, it is also the playground of predators, the receptacle of hate speech, violent images and gears that must stay away from minors. For several years, the testimonies of young victims of cyberharassment, sextortion or exposure to online pornographic images have multiplied and alerted us to the reverse of the internet scene. There is indeed a paradox: children often master digital tools better than their parents, but they ignore the dangers. There is also an increasingly early use of digital technology: more than 80% of 10-14 year olds regularly visit the Internet without their parents, while the average age of use of the first smartphone is 9 years and 9 months. In the face of this, we have acted, both on repression and on prevention. This is the meaning of the Schiappa law of 2018, which has increased sanctions against the perpetrators of digital raids. With the transposition of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, we have also forced video platforms to put in place measures to prevent minors from accessing pornographic content. Last year, the Law on the Protection of Minors from Sexual Crimes and Incest also strengthened the punishment of sexual offences committed online, including by creating the offence of sextorsion. Finally, in 2021, we launched the Jeprotegemonenfant.gouv.fr platform, dedicated to information and support of digital parenting. However, our action must not stop there. The Digital Economy Confidence Act 2004 required Internet service providers to inform their customers of the existence of parental control tools, but it must be noted that their use is still largely insufficient: more than half of parents do not use them. It is therefore essential to simplify and encourage the installation of parental control, as the tools of supervision remain the best weapon against online dangers. This is the purpose of the proposed law, which requires manufacturers to pre-install a parental control device on all connected terminals they market. At first reading, we rightly extended this obligation to the sellers of repackaged products and guaranteed the free use of these tools. I am also pleased that the drafting resulting from the work of the CMP has kept several contributions from the Senate that go in the right direction, such as a ban on the marketing of data collected during the activation of parental control or a better awareness by manufacturers of the risks associated with early exposure to screens. Encouraging the use of parental control means providing parents with additional means to prevent the early exposure of their children to inappropriate, violent and pornographic images, but also to cyber-harassment, which affects nearly one in five children. This is therefore a significant step forward in the protection of children and adolescents, which must be accompanied by a substantial strengthening of prevention. In my report on the evaluation of the Schiappa Act, I called for mandatory prevention sessions in schools dedicated to the use of digital and social networks. This is a request made by the actors on the ground. Finally, I cannot finish this speech without referring to the report of the committee on the first 1000 days of the child, chaired by Boris Cyrulnik, whose work reminds us that too early exposure to screens is particularly harmful for the development of the child, because it hinders the learning and the construction of his own emotional regulation. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood this: because we are convinced of the importance of this bill, the Group of the European People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u104	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u105	I am pleased that in the last week we are sitting in this Chamber we can see texts that provide greater protection for our children. As I said at first reading, our ambition here must be simple and understood by all: to protect the carelessness of the youngest, this state of mind which gradually evaporates, but for which it is vital to preserve a process of evolution where everyone can progress at his own pace. It is thus our role as legislator to do everything possible to preserve this innocence, and when it comes to parental control, it is also the protection of this child's soul that we must have in mind, because violent or pornographic images come to break the child's natural development. This text, which is equally aimed at our teenagers, must constitute a serious guarantee to protect every young person, in its progressive evolution, from the dangers that image, audiovisual and new technologies, despite their lot of progress, are likely to bring to its reach. I would therefore like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for once again defending a proposal for a law on the protection of young people in the face of the emergence of digital practices that sometimes go beyond us. It must be recognized that technological advances lead to changes that affect our children in the first place. This must lead us to exercise greater vigilance, while avoiding the pitfall of clearing the parents from their responsibilities by overly regular intervention by the legislator. So small but useful alterations are needed to adapt, and that is what we are doing today. These small advances are all the more useful since, in many cases, it is ultimately a question of awakening our fellow citizens by highlighting problems that affect them every day. To that end, a piece of legislation dealing with these issues will certainly attract more attention than a provision in a broader bill. In any event, it is pointless to recall that the democratisation of digital tools gives children almost immediate access to all human folly and stupidity. However, as you said at first reading, Mr rapporteur, the figures we have on the age of first autonomous navigation are certainly already obsolete. The Internet is as wonderful as it is dangerous, but we must, like all other tools, learn to use it. It is therefore a matter for the legislator to empower parents to protect their children from pornographic, violent or hateful content, while at the same time offering them the opportunity to modulate control, especially according to age. They must also keep their hands in order to carry out, if necessary, educational activities with their children. This necessary parental action is limited, however, because many parents have less control of digital tools than their children – if not at all – or abandon their responsibilities on the way to education. But this bill, I know, is seen as an additional tool that will give everyone the opportunity to act. The mechanism that we are going to vote today may benefit from being supplemented, in the future, by accompaniment of the parents in difficulty. Why, for example, not connect them, thanks to the platform jeprotegemonenfant.gouv.fr, with associations already active in the field, so that they are better informed about the dangers hidden in the internet meanderings? I would also like to commend the work of our honourable senators, who have brought interesting legal consolidations. The protection of the personal data of minors which will be collected with the device provided for in this text thus appears to be an essential element. I also believe that the discussions currently under way at European level to regulate digital giants include a similar provision. Finally, the Senate has introduced a good measure that requires manufacturers to contribute to the dissemination of available information on the risks associated with the early exposure of children to screens. While this text is primarily intended to protect our children from inappropriate content found on the Internet, the question of screen time and its harmfulness must at least be able to know an advertisement so that everyone understands the benefits and limitations of new technologies. The UDI Group would therefore support this bill and hoped that parental control would be adopted by a majority of parents. [[Applause on the benches of the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] I will conclude by saying, in the last week of our work, the pleasure I had in representing and serving our fellow citizens. I thank our President for his valuable mission, as well as all the agents of the National Assembly, which enable democracy to be exercised.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u107	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u108	I shall put the whole bill to the vote, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u109	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 57 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u110	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u111	I would like to thank the chairman of the LaREM Group, Christophe Castaner, for his support, as well as all the members of the Group, especially those who have worked with me for five years in the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education – we will be pleased to meet again on Thursday to discuss the texts on combating school harassment and the democratization of sport. Thank you too, Secretary of State, for the work we have done together for many months on this and other texts. [[Applause on all benches]] Finally, Mr President, to use the fetish expression of a navigator who has left us – a lover of Brittany, like you – I mean, "Good wind! to all and to all and wish the best to each of you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u112	[[Same movements]] [[Same movements]] It is not without a certain emotion that I end at the moment my 2388th hour at the perch, which represents almost a hundred days of twenty-four hours and is probably a record. I hope I have not done too much nonsense and I thank all those who have accompanied me – administrators, bailiffs, officials of the session and of the various services, with a particular thought for those whom we never talk about, who are responsible for the sounding of the session. Thank you to all the officials of the House, without which our work would not be what they are, and since we have just spent midnight, I wish everyone a good day.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1162.u113	Next meeting at 3 p.m.: Final reading of the proposal for a law to strengthen the right to abortion; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on universal access to vaccination and increasing the productive capacity of the means to combat the global covid pandemic -19; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the denunciation of the facts and consequences of the military coup d'état of 1 February 2021 in Burma; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to defend the strong demand for European certification of organic salt and its production methods. The meeting is adjourned.
