ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u1	The next item is the final reading of the proposal for a law to strengthen the right to abortion (No. 5048).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u2	The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day in the life of this House, an important day for sexual and reproductive health and an important day for women's health. First of all, I would like to commend the work of those who, on these benches, have made it possible to conclude this text, in order to remedy the distress faced by thousands of women who, every year, must carry out voluntary breaks in late pregnancy abroad, because they do not have the possibility in our country. I pay tribute to the pugnacity of the two rapporteurs and to the unwavering commitment of parliamentarians of the majority, which has been extended for the occasion. A few great battles are inseparable from the history of this House: that of Simone Veil is one of them and we all have his words in memory, his courage well present in mind. The right to abortion, now enshrined in our legal heritage, guarantees freedom and respect for the dignity of women and contributes to the improvement of equality between women and men. The bill on which you must make a final decision today is faithful to this fight for the emancipation of women. In this regard, I welcome the substantive work that has been carried out in connection with the delegation to women's rights: the information report by Cécile Muschotti and Marie-Noëlle Battistel and the initiative of Albane Gaillot. If the Government has resorted to the deliberation of parliamentarians, it has created the conditions for this process and the commitment of the majority to come to an end. Having never made my personal position on the subject a mystery, I am delighted that we have found a peaceful way to defend our common conviction. We have proven that long time is the right time to address ethically complex issues. This long time is that of a parliamentary procedure which allowed everyone to question themselves in a sincere way and to compare views. The decision was not taken at the rush, but on the contrary well thought out; In addition, parliamentarians were able to reflect on the light provided by the opinion of the NCCE, the National Ethics Advisory Council, which was referred to me at my request. The result is a balanced, measured and, I believe, deeply responsible text. While Article 1 provides for the extension of the legal period for access to abortion from 12 to 14 weeks, this text is rich in other measures aimed at improving the effectiveness of the right to abortion: by the possibility given to midwives to practice instrumental abortions in health institutions; by the inclusion in the law of the extension of the time limit for the use of abortions by drugs from five to seven weeks; by the publication by each regional health agency of a directory of professionals and structures practising abortions, on the basis of a voluntary census; Finally, by sanctioning pharmacists in case of refusal to issue an emergency contraceptive, apart from the cases of legitimate refusal provided for in the Public Health Code. As you know, the Government has made a high and strong demand to continuously increase access to the supply of abortions in all parts of the territory, so as not to leave any woman without the possibility of exercising her right, and it has already committed itself very concretely to several of these measures, a sign of strong substantive convergence with your proposals. After an important consultation with the stakeholders, we have launched the experiment opening the practice of instrumental IVG to midwives provided for in the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 and which tends to generalize this bill. We wanted not to waste time: the decree implementing this experiment was published on 31 December. In particular, it specifies the training and experience required of midwives as well as the specific organisation required of the testing health facilities. It is accompanied by a decree organizing the national call for applications to voluntary health institutions. This must lead to the selection of about 50 teams to launch the very first projects in the coming months. It lays the foundation for a practice that can facilitate the organization of hospital teams in their response to ICG requests and will present to women involved in such a journey a new possible interlocutor. On the other hand, I had committed myself to persevering up to seven weeks of pregnancy in the time frame for the use of an IVG drug, giving the possibility, depending on the choice and state of health of women, to opt for teleconsultation. This measure, taken by way of derogation in April 2020 because of the first confinement, had been the subject of formal recommendations from the High Health Authority a year later. My ministry has kept this commitment, since a decree to that effect was issued this Sunday, February 20th. This is a great further step in favour of effective access to the IVG. You know my attachment to breaking down the walls between professions and breaking up a health system that has suffered too much from chapel wars. In that regard, we are once again moving in the right direction. In addition to extending the legal deadline, it is essential to guarantee the effectiveness of the right to abortion, as well as information and education upstream. For example, the 2021-2024 roadmap for the National Sexual Health Strategy, which was co-built with all stakeholders, was published on 1 December. It provides for concrete actions to strengthen sexual health promotion, information and education, such as the design and dissemination of publicly accessible sexual health promotion tools or the enhancement of knowledge on sexual health among young people. It also reaffirms the need for a readable, accessible and close sexual health offer, and includes action dedicated to strengthening access to abortion, because we must make the exercise of this right effective at every point in the territory. The first concrete measures – I had the opportunity to discuss them two weeks ago before the delegation to women's rights, at the invitation of Marie-Pierre Rixain – were introduced into the Social Security Financing Act for 2022. The aim is to extend long-term sexual health counselling to all young people up to 25 years of age, so that sexual health does not continue to be seen as a matter of women, but also to make free access to contraception for women up to 25 years of age, in order to take into account the economic and social vulnerabilities of young adults. In terms of women's health, we have advanced many causes; We have strengthened rights and created new ones. I cared a lot about it. It was also a five-year priority. At the height of the health crisis, emergency measures have been adopted to make effective the right to abortion, proof that nothing can call into question this right to which we are so attached. Beyond these emergency measures, we have worked together to advance women's sexual and reproductive health. Whether it is the road map for sexual health, free contraception or long-term consultation, this five-year period has been one of action and progress. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, also applauds]] Moreover, how can we not cite medically assisted procreation for all, which will remain a highlight of the legislature? This memory always arouses emotion in me, because this advance has allowed the realization of parental projects and, beyond that, an enlargement of the French family, beautiful in the diversity of its forms and configurations. More than 7,000 LDC projects have been initiated by women alone or in a couple within a few months, more than twice what we anticipated after the first year of the law. This shows that there was an urgent need and that the statistics on which we had based the opening of this new law largely underestimated the number of women who crossed our borders every year to carry out their family project. We have also listened to associations of patients who have been alerting us for a long time to an evil that so many women are suffering from in our country: of course I want to talk about endometriosis. Few Frenchmen knew this disease and even that word a few months ago. At the request of the President of the Republic, who has personally engaged in this fight, I had the honour to present a national strategy to combat endometriosis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u4	What about its inclusion in the list of long-term conditions?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u5	This strategy is accompanied by very important means to structure territorial channels of detection, accompaniment and care. A few years ago, a health minister who would have spoken of "menstrual precariousness" would certainly have given rise to some perplexity or even embarrassment. Today, I do so on numerous trips to associations that allow women in vulnerable situations to provide hygienic protections. The challenge is not only semantic or symbolic: it is to enable women, regardless of their life course and material living conditions, to have access to care and to receive appropriate support and accompaniment whenever necessary. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – Mrs Albane Gaillot and Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, also applaud]] The extension of the legal deadline for voluntary termination of pregnancy reflects this shared desire to move towards more emancipation, pragmatism and equality. This is not just a victory for women; It is a victory for society as a whole, of which we can all be very proud.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u6	Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u7	As we prepare to vote on the bill that I tabled on August 25, 2020, it is with great solemnity, sense of responsibility, and emotion that I address you. Abortion is not a failure, a mistake of course or a tragedy, but a solution for women who do not wish to continue their pregnancy. For some, the right to abortion is formal, not real. Let's hear them: "I'm 40 years old, I'm taking the pill, but sometimes I forget to take one. However, this is rare. A few days ago I realized I was pregnant. I thought it'd only been a few weeks. In fact, I was 13 weeks pregnant. We can't keep it. I do not understand that from twelve weeks we have to go abroad and pay sums that not everyone can have. It's like they want to do everything they can to make us keep the pregnancies. But abortion is a right, right? As long as it doesn't happen to us, we don't know anything about what we have to live. » If we adopt it, this bill will mark several advances: the deadline for recourse to abortion will increase to fourteen weeks of pregnancy; midwives will be able to practice instrumental IVGs; a directory of health professionals practising IVG will be established, and the reflection period of two days after a psychosocial interview will be abolished; teleconsultation for a GVI will become possible in a health facility. Little regret: the specific conscience clause could not have been removed during this legislature. I hope that the parliamentarians who will soon be elected or re-elected will return to the work: the abortion must be recognized as a right in its own right for women. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI and GDR groups]] We have discussed and heard at length the arguments of the opponents of this text; We will certainly rehearse them today. I will not try to convince those who say that abortion traumatizes women and doctors, who consider that this right should be restricted, who invoke Simone Veil at the same time as they try to bring about a retrograde society project. I prefer to talk about those who have allowed the bill to reach this final stage. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem, SOC, FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur, also applauds]] Convinced of the need to advance collectively, I have worked from the very beginning with health professionals, feminist associations and parliamentarians committed to women's rights: the National Council of the Order of Midwives, the National Association of Orthogenist Midwives (ANSFO), the Network between the City and the Hospital for Orthogenism (REVHO), the National Association of HIV and Contraception Centres (ANCIC), the National Association of Midwives Students (ANESF), the Family Planning, Dare feminism!, Solidary Women, the Women's House of Saint-Denis, the National Federation of Women's and Family Rights Information Centres (FNCIDFF) and others. Some of their representatives are in the fora: I would like to greet them, to commend their commitment. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem, SOC, FI and GDR groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups]] I also extend a sororal greeting to my co-rapporteur, who, by my side, defended the text with conviction; I pay tribute, for its essential role, to the delegation to women's rights, chaired by Marie-Pierre Rixain, and in particular to Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti, who are the authors of a very comprehensive report on the IVG. This bill was signed by nearly forty parliamentarians from eight groups. Thanks to the trans-party commitment of deputies from almost every bench, it was placed on the agenda by the former group Ecology Democracy Solidarity, co-chaired by Matthieu Orphelin and Paula Forteza, then by the Socialist Group, then by the majority group La République en marche and finally by the Government. I thank all those who have supported, I repeat, this collective work, this total co-construction. I wish to have a word for my team, past and present, thanks to which I was able to submit this text to you: Alice Gayraud and Léa Guichard, who certainly listen to us from the stands, Hélène Bureau, Khaty Sow, Noémie Rollet, Marion Muracciole, Héloïse Hardy, Sabrine Azzouni. Finally Yann, Antoine and Adèle supported me in this fight for abortion; They demonstrated with me, listened to the many Zooms, live Insta or Twitter – a bit forced, but they were still there... [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC, FI and GDR groups, as well as on the panels of the commissions. – Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras also applauds]] It is an extraordinary journey that my bill has gone through: it is a step forward for all women, but it is also an education for the future. The trans-party mobilization, co-construction throughout the parliamentary shuttle enriched it and, in addition to the numerous exchanges with the Government, ensured its success, even though it had emerged from a minority group and soon became orphaned. You who participated in the adventure that I proposed to you, you ignored the labels, the parties, the groups: you recognized a text of progress for women's rights, for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u8	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u9	It is with joy and emotion that I see a long journey towards women's rights. As Albane Gaillot pointed out, several months ago, since the second reading, I took part as co-rapporteur in this rather atypical legislative adventure, which shows that Parliament's action can be collective. But beyond this text, I have been committed to the right to abortion for years, especially since the report that Cécile Muschotti and I have devoted to the subject on behalf of the delegation to women's rights. This right, we must not forget, is a human right, fundamentally linked to the status of women, their freedom, their dignity. This right, we must not forget, reflects the society we want to build: a society of equality in which women are free to dispose of their bodies, to build their present and their future as they see fit. Finally, we must not forget that this right is an acquired right: others have struggled hard to obtain it, and we collectively have fought hard to strengthen it. It is this fight that brings us together for the final reading of this bill. The blockages in this House, as well as in the upper chamber, show that the will to restrict this right remains. But it is not a privilege granted to women, a variable of adjustment: it is, I repeat, fundamental, and our duty as legislators is to guarantee its effectiveness throughout the territory. Since 1975, several legislative developments have taken place in this direction. In the previous legislature alone, we have removed the concept of distress and the mandatory time limit for reflection, created the offence of obstructing the abortion, which provides for the taking over of acts connected with it. The bill is fully consistent with these provisions, and I am pleased to see that we are moving forward in a trans-partisan manner. I would of course like to thank Albane Gaillot, who defended her text with conviction and pugnacity, but also all the parliamentarians and groups who, by our side, allowed her to continue her journey, as well as the associations, health professionals and family planning; I will have a word for Cécile Muschotti, with whom I have worked for a long time and who, too, embodies this commitment in order to better guarantee the right to abortion in our country; for Marie-Pierre Rixain, who has trusted us and, throughout his term of office, has fought for women's rights. I would also like to thank the Government: although we have differences on certain subjects, it has enabled Parliament to continue its work on this text and to bring it to a conclusion on this penultimate day of the session. My only regret remains the withdrawal of the deletion of the consciousness clause, which would have been only an alignment with the wording we adopted a few months ago on medical termination of pregnancy (IMG). We take note of this: I think I can count on the women's rights delegation to continue this fight during the next parliamentary term. This should not prevent us from welcoming the great progress that will be made with the adoption of the bill, in particular the extension of the legal deadline for abortion and the opening of surgical competence to midwives, measures which will be essential to improve access to abortion, in the coming years, in all territories and for all women. Let us remember that if we adopt these provisions, it is above all for women. We will adopt them to enable them to exercise their fundamental right to abortion, obtained more than forty-five years ago, to which all may one day need to resort, whatever the reason. We will adopt them to better guarantee this right to young, precarious, victims of violence, who are far from the health system; Because, once again, all women may be affected, the most vulnerable are also more often in difficulty in the face of unwanted pregnancy. It is often the latter who exceed the legal deadline and are forced – when they can – to travel abroad to abort. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on a few benches of the SOC, FI and GDR groups and on the panels of the commissions]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to vote for a text that will enable these women to assert their rights and strengthen the rights of all women. It's a big day for them; I am convinced that this House will be up to the challenge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u10	I have received from Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. On this motion, I have before me a request for a public vote in the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u11	First of all, it is necessary to say and say again – I do so every time I speak on this subject – that no one here thinks about making any judgment on women who resort to abortion. Their misfortune, sometimes their distress, calls us to the greatest restraint; But restraint does not prevent us from expressing what is. [[Murmures on the benches of the FI group]] We legislators have the responsibility and duty to be at the service of the common good, not of an ideology where only the will of the adult counts. In this case, this will can stop the life that grows in a woman's body. A life that, when it goes back to fourteen weeks, measures about 8 centimetres, weighs 30 grams, has an ossified head, a drawn face, a hand that tightens, an thumb that sucks, legs, feet, a heart that beats, blood that flows in the veins; a life that is fervently, simply that of a human being. The bill that comes to an end today does not therefore deal only with the right of women to dispose of their bodies, but also with our collective responsibility when we have another body, that of the unborn child: these are the two sides that are inseparable from the same decision. Yet, to hear you, there would be no need to discuss it: you proclaim a right to fundamental, absolute abortion, superior to all others and to life itself. Emmanuel Macron, on 19 January, was very clear: "I hope that we can update [the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union], in particular to be more explicit on [...] the recognition of the right to abortion". Abortion would therefore be in danger, threatened by obscurantists of another time who would be against women's rights. The attack is as gross as it is dishonest because, each time, the same arguments are brandished as new truths. According to you, every year, 3000 to 5000 women in our country would be forced to go abroad for abortion because of the exceeding of legal deadlines.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u12	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u13	These figures had already been used in 2001, when the deadline had been extended from 10 to 12 weeks, and will be used again tomorrow when it is extended to 16 and 18 weeks, and why not more. Even more surprising, this text should be voted on as a matter of urgency to strengthen the right to abortion, which would be attacked. But more than 230,000 abortions are performed each year, that is, at least twice as many as in Germany, whose population is higher than ours – without anyone asking about it. And one in three women – these are your numbers – aborts at least once in her life in France. In these circumstances, one may wonder what figures might reassure you about the place of abortions in our birth policy. This right would be so in danger that today you present surgical abortion as a kind of promotion for midwives. It doesn't matter that their training and qualifications are not those of a doctor. It doesn't matter if you don't even expect the results of the experiment under the Social Security Financing Act to sustain this practice. It doesn't matter, since only women's rights count, as you said, Madam rapporteur Battistel. It is so true that it took little for the specific consciousness clause, the last vestige of Simone Veil's law, to be removed. Because in your home, the doctor and the medical staff are executioners. Dispossessed of the right to have a conscience, which does not necessarily obey your rules, they are dehumanized. But it doesn't matter since even to women, whose rights you claim to defend, you remove the 48-hour reflection period between the prior psychosocial interview and the collection of consent. It would be a stigma of their infantilization: in your opinion, to think, it is infantilizing! [[Applause on certain benches in the LR Group and among non-attached Members]] But let's go back to Simone Veil. With this bill you are far away, far from the one that systematically reminded that abortion is a tragedy and that there can be no question of trivializing it. But for you, good-bye wisdom! Farewell, warnings from the National Ethics Advisory Committee! Farewell, oppositions of the National Academy of Medicine and the National College of French Gynaecologists and Obstetricians! I say to you that I will not vote for this bill, and I propose that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u14	In explanation of vote, Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor for a period of two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u15	[[Mr Jean-Marie Sermier exclaimed]] I regret to inform you, Mrs Ménard, that you have lost a battle in the long run, that waged by those who deny women the right to abort. The reality of your political positions is indeed the fundamental questioning of the right to abortion, contrary to what you originally said. You know that such a position is inaudible today in France, as women are attached to this right, and so you are only trying to put more and more important brakes on the possibility of abortion. Your argument regarding the change from twelve to fourteen weeks is inaudible. At twelve weeks, it's an embryo. At fourteen weeks, it is also an embryo: it is not viable. You can make women feel guilty with tremolos in the voice, giving the size of the brain, but at twelve as at fourteen weeks, it's an embryo. To add two weeks is to prevent women from having to go abroad and that is to allow them to abort, whether or not they have money. It's also giving them the time they need because there are not enough GVI centres and the conditions are not always met. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Ms Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur, and Ms Valérie Bazin-Malgras also applaud]] [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] For my part, I am fighting, Madame Ménard, to make abortion no longer a tragedy as it is too often. This is part of the struggles that we are waging here and that you are opposing! You keep reminding us that abortion is a tragedy and, in this too, you blame women. There are women today who have abortions and are happy to have this right because, if they do not have abortions, they have a child that is not desired. Having an unwanted child is a tragedy, and it lasts much longer than an abortion, Madame Ménard. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] So I am very happy and I once again salute the work of Albane Gaillot and all the women we are, because there are many of us – even though I see that men are of course present to vote... But it's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Autain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u17	[[Same movements]] I just want to add a word...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u18	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u19	I am surprised that a motion of rejection was tabled at the final reading stage, although this had not been the case at the previous reading. We are in the National Assembly, Ms. Ménard, and it was the Senate that refused, on each reading, to consider the text by voting on such a motion. By not deliberating on this bill for further reading, honourable senators have deprived you of the exercise of the right of amendment. It is the Senate that has thus tried to delegitimize the bill, whereas here in the House, on the contrary, we must strengthen it. We come to the end of a long legislative process, but the determination of the majority and the pugnacity of the authors and rapporteurs of this proposal have enabled us to overcome all the obstacles that have arisen since the beginning: the wall of amendments tabled by the Republican Group at first reading, the difficulties arising from the parliamentary agenda at second reading. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] But we'll be able to do it! We will have managed to significantly improve women's rights by extending the time limit for practicing an abortion by two weeks, thus joining several European countries. We will have extended the obligation to inform women candidates for abortion. We will have expanded the skills of midwives to perform surgical IVG. We will have sustained the extension of the time limit for the use of IVG drugs. We will have removed the two-day reflection period imposed on women who have previously consulted. We will have created the unique directory of access to information entrusted to the regional health agencies. We will have clarified the obligation of professionals to issue an emergency contraceptive. We will have decided to evaluate the implementation of the crime of obstructing the abortion. We will have generalised the practice of paying third party for acts related to IVG. Of all this – I say it with great solemnity, at the end of the legislature – we can be proud. It is, of course, so that this text can be applied that the moving Republic Group will not vote on the motion to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u20	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u21	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] On all the benches, Members were able to express themselves and exchange views on this text. The object of those who oppose it is in no way to reconsider the right to abortion; I would not like to see any confusion in this regard. Abortion is a right for which many women have fought for a very long time, and here I would like to pay tribute to them. As for the motion to reject it in advance, I will vote against it in my personal capacity and, as is customary in our group, everyone will do according to their convictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u22	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u23	Having a child – I think there are many of us on these benches – is both great moments of joy and sometimes difficult moments. To face these moments, you must have been ready to welcome the child. We must not have it by default, because we have not been able to access abortion. That is why, Mrs Ménard, our group will not support your motion of rejection. We believe that women need access to abortion. However, in many territories, including my own, this right is not complete...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u24	He will be even less so with this law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u25	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] ... because of the lack of gynaecologists and the difficulties of access to care. This bill responds to the needs of women; Its aim is not for all women to have an abortion at fourteen weeks, but for them to have the opportunity to do so. It also allows professionals in our territories, midwives, to accompany women on a day-to-day basis. It is still planning to strengthen information and training. For all these reasons, regardless of everyone's vote on the text just now, a motion of prior rejection seems totally irrelevant to me. We will therefore vote against, because women need this text to be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u26	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u27	[[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Our group will obviously not vote on this rejection motion, inspired by a vision of society and the place of women that is absolutely not ours. We repeat: this text will remove obstacles and make women's rights effective. The measures contained therein are expected by thousands of women. It is to them that we think and that we will think when we vote. Women must be able to decide for themselves, in their soul and conscience. Your proposal, Mrs Ménard, runs counter to what the Socialist and related group here stands for.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u28	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u29	On topics like this, the members of the group to which I belong, act together, listen to each other and, above all, respect each other's positions. It is therefore on my behalf that I will speak today and on behalf of the colleagues who share my point of view – of which I hope it will be largely majority. Contrary to what you said in the preamble, Ms. Ménard, it is the right to the abortion that you question with this motion of rejection. The purpose of your description of this act is to make it so reprehensible as to reverse the right to use it. That, for my part, is what I am hearing in defence of your motion of rejection. That is why I will of course vote against this motion. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and FI groups]] The text goes well beyond the extension of the deadline from 12 to 14 weeks; It has been said and repeated, and it will probably still be. Most importantly, it will improve access to abortion in a factual and effective manner for all women who need it, not just those who have exceeded the 12-week deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u30	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u31	[[The rapporteurs exclaimed]] First of all, I would like to point out that the IDU and independent group is very committed to the right to abortion. I will speak in my personal capacity. I never vote on motions for rejection, because I believe that debate is still necessary. But the text is now being considered at last reading; The discussions took place. So I think I did everything I could to convince my colleagues. Having voted against the text at each reading, I am voting consistently on this motion to reject.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u32	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u33	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 141 Number of votes cast 140 Absolute majority 71 For adoption 20 Against 120
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u34	I would remind you that during the final readings, statements in the general debate are valid explanations of vote. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u35	The course of this bill will have been fraught with difficulties. More than a year and a half after the start of its examination, I am delighted to see it finally come to a final reading. I once again welcome the rapporteurs and thank them warmly for their unwavering determination. The passage of this bill was not won in advance. I would like to point to the obstruction by a handful of Members of Parliament, which has led to the postponement of its consideration, or the systematic rejection without discussion of the text by the Senate majority, without any other consideration, while the subject affects almost one in three women. The reluctance to legislate on abortion reminds us of the fragility of this hard-won right. They oblige us to increase our vigilance when it comes to women's rights. By making the choice of extending the time limits for access to abortion, this text provides a concrete solution to all those who find themselves out of time, forced to continue an unwanted pregnancy or to travel abroad to put an end to it. Social and territorial inequalities in health account for a great deal of the difficulties in accessing abortion, which still affect the most vulnerable women. As you know, I fully support the extension of the legal deadline, but I want to stress one crucial point: the law cannot do everything. Let us recall the situation in the wake of the Veil law; Its adoption did not resolve everything at once. It took a long time for orthogeny centres to open up in certain establishments, reluctant to accept them. It also took time for the IVG to be fully reimbursed: the act was taken care of in 2013, and all the exams in 2016! Another revealing aspect of the challenge of advancing women's sexual health rights is the situation of midwives. The practice of instrumental abortion by members of this profession had been allowed, on an experimental basis, by the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. Nevertheless, it took a year to see the implementing decree published. We stress that the extension of their powers must be accompanied by a re-evaluation of their status. However, Annie Chapelier's bill, which provided for an improvement in the training of midwives, is still not, on the eve of the suspension of our parliamentary business, on the Orders of the Day of the Senate. This lack of recognition says a lot about the under-investment – not only in financial terms – at work in the field of female sexual health, from which the lack of gynaecologists in France results – their number could fall to 531 by 2025! – the unprofitable and poorly taught nature of the abortion act and the difficulties faced by a large number of family planning centres in obtaining sufficient grants. Finally, let us remember that we cannot approach abortion solely from the angle of public health. Behind abortion is the right of women to dispose of their bodies. The choice must always be the rule: whether or not to complete a pregnancy, the possibility of choosing the practitioner, the place or the technique used. It must be noted that today the freedom to choose is being undermined. In my turn, I regret our renunciation of the abolition of the double consciousness clause, specific to the IVG: it is indicative of the fight that still remains to be waged. Yes, deleting this clause was symbolic: to consider the IVG in the same way as any other medical act does not make it banal or trivial, but merely helps to remove it from the taboos that surround it, from the unsaid, from the guilty discourses. It is these discourses that are uninformed, traumatizing and, ultimately, the most dangerous. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The members of the Liberties and Territories Group will take a conscious decision on this text. For my part, like the majority of them, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u36	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u37	"It [the law] was everywhere. In the euphemisms and litots of my agenda, the protuberant eyes of John T., the so-called forced marriages, the Umbrellas of Cherbourg, the shame of those who aborted and the reprobation of others. In the absolute impossibility of imagining that one day women can decide to abort freely. And, as usual, it was impossible to determine whether abortion was prohibited because it was wrong, or whether it was wrong because it was prohibited. We judged the law, we didn't judge the law. These words are those of Annie Ernaux who, in L'Événement, relates a night in January 1964. Since that night, crossed by hundreds of thousands of women, abortion has become a fundamental right conquered in high struggle. So, colleagues, your resistance during the examination of this text is nothing original, as the control of women's bodies is part of a thousand-year history. In 1920, a law prohibited any anti-conception or anti-birth propaganda and prevented doctors from giving women advice on contraception. In 1942, a vichyst law regarded abortion as a State crime punishable by the death penalty. This led, on the morning of July 30, 1943, to the execution of Marie-Louise Giraud, the angel-maker. However, even when these evil laws were in force, women were aborting. They ingested oxygenated water, detergent, vinegar, a knitting needle, an ear of wheat, a toothbrush, soapy water into the uterus. They went abroad when they could afford it. Otherwise, they were hurting themselves in the hope of undergoing a cure in the hospital: doctors could then cure them alive to punish them. The struggle for freedom and the end of hiding was carried by the women themselves, like Madeleine Pelletier, the first female psychiatrist, who, from the end of the 19th century, was fighting for the decriminalization of abortion. It was followed, throughout history, by a cohort of activists and associations such as Family Planning, by waves of thousands of women shouting in the streets during the 1960s: "The politics on our belly will not be behind our backs! » I am thinking of the 343 women who signed the manifesto published in Le Nouvel Observateur in April 1971, or the Veil Act of 1975, a milestone in women's right to dispose of their bodies, which brought to an end decades of taboo and hypocrisy, repression, departures abroad, fast curing, humiliation and death. The bill we are looking at is itself being challenged by short-sighted bigotes, there, of nostalgic women who have been condemned. Nothing original, no. You think you belong to your beliefs, when your beliefs belong only to the long history of male domination. You did not wish to delete the specific conscience clause for IVG, even though there is one that applies generally to all medical procedures. You thus make abortion a separate medical act, while it is part of women's lives. However, the fate of women does not have to depend on conservatism or religious beliefs of health professionals. Because this right to dispose of its body remains to be conquered, the group La France insoumise wishes to include it in the Constitution. This is a fundamental right, which refers each person to his or her own free self-esteem when the circumstances of such a choice arise. We must register it, because the slow pace of women's rights has gone on long enough. The polemic debates, constantly reactivated on the basis of the conservative agenda of some, of the dismal opportunism of others, are unbearable. We know that women's rights have always been the first victims of reactionary assaults. What have we not heard about this bill in the House, or even at the top of the state? Emmanuel Macron himself demonstrated himself by speaking of abortion as a "trauma", or by asserting that giving additional time was not neutral. That he gave in to this bill, after two years of parliamentary battle, under the impetus of our colleague Albane Gaillot, is not neutral! Of course, I would like to reiterate our unwavering support for this bill, which is also a particular echo today. In fact, on Monday, Colombia authorized the practice of abortion up to 24 weeks of pregnancy, while there were only a few exceptions to which women who resorted could be punished by up to five years in prison. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We owe these advances to the historical mobilization of feminists, without whom they would not take place. Behind a law, there's always a crowd, a rush of women dressed in purple or green scarves like the one I'm wearing today. Congratulations to these women, here or elsewhere, who defend emancipation! I join them in reminding them that our body belongs neither to men, nor to the State, nor to the homeland, nor to the family. You don't mind, colleagues, it belongs only to women and to them alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u38	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u39	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u40	This is the fourth time that I have spoken on behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left in favour of extending the legal deadline for the abortion; hoping that it will be the right one and that in a few minutes we will adopt this historic text for the fundamental right of women to dispose of their bodies. We are proud to support a law for women at the heart of a political time, a presidential campaign gangred by reactionary ideas and sexist statements. It is a strong act and, at this time, an important text in favour of women's rights. We are also proud to be part of a historic approach to the effective legalization of abortion. Of course, after the adoption of this text, we will still have to fight for the abortion to be a real right and not just a formal one. I am thinking in particular of the means that will be required to ensure the health of women throughout the territory. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and FI groups]] I would like to take this rostrum as a tribute to the successful mobilization of the Colombians in favour of the legalization of abortion. Congratulations to them for their unwavering determination! Defending women's rights is a daily struggle, as they are all too often considered secondary and attacked whenever feminist struggles allow for new gains. The right to abortion does not derogate from this rule: fundamental right par excellence, it is the result of a struggle led by generations of women and men, feminists, political and associative activists. This right is jeopardized by the reactionary baton that we have been witnessing in recent times and that must be fought. We have seen this again during the many attempts to have this text adopted, initially refused by the Government, before it issued a wisdom opinion. I continue to call on the latter and call on him to make a stronger commitment to women's rights. We have also observed, during the various readings of the bill, a trans-partisan and collective work – I say so with a lot of sorority – on the part of Members on all benches. But we have also found that the abject and guilty words continue to make abortion a taboo act. I want to thank Albane again, Marie-Noëlle, as well as all the colleagues who have mobilized! We have great joy in voting for this text, but I would like to reiterate how alarming it is. It is not a question of self-congratulation, but of greeting a real victory for women. I am thinking not only of the 3000 to 5000 French who, every year, had to go abroad to abort, but also and especially of all those who did not have the means to leave. Despite the abject words that we have heard, we know well that when a woman has decided to abort, she does so, including by taking the risk of endangering her own health. This text will allow the legal deadline to be extended from 12 weeks to 14 weeks without changing the abortion techniques applied by doctors and midwives. We will thus save the lives of women and enable them to preserve the integrity of their bodies. [[Ms. Muriel Ressiguier applauds]] In this regard, I would point out that the CCNE has not objected ethically to the extension of the deadline and that many applications for abortion after the legal deadline of 12 weeks of pregnancy concern women in precarious situations or victims of violence. I also think very strongly about them when I vote. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and FI groups. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] However, fighting remains to be waged, in particular in order to remove the specific awareness clause related to the practice of abortion and to equip public health policy with the necessary means to ensure women's access to abortion everywhere – I am thinking in particular of the subsidies granted to associations and family planning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u41	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u42	This morning, at the house of the women of Saint-Denis, Ghadah Hatem – whom everyone here knows – told us about this young woman, this "little girl" she said, who discovered her pregnancy at sixteen weeks of amenorrhea. Coming from southern France, she found herself in Saint-Denis because her doctor had told her: "We can't do anything for you." He said nothing but that cold, cruel and violent phrase. It is to this "little girl" that I want to address, as well as to Colombian women, to express to them my pride in seeing the completion of this text that we have supported for many months, born from the work of Cécile Muschotti and Marie-Noëlle Battistel in the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women, and then taken over by our colleague Albane Gaillot. Everyone knows that, without the Republic on the move, this text would not have come such a way: thanks to our majority, we are taking one more step towards real equality. If freedom of conscience prevails in our group, as in others, I greet those who have made sure to make respectful remarks towards each other. We have overcome the obstruction strategy that some have adopted, in particular to push back the Socialist and related group when it placed the text on its agenda. We have refused to enter into a political game on such a subject – others have, on the other hand, engaged in it, both in the Assembly and in the Senate. We just wanted to move forward, and quickly. That is why we wanted to continue the examination of the text defended by Albane Gaillot, although we could have tabled a new one. Our commitment to this bill was to respond to dramatic situations. Let us recall that too many women are forced to go abroad to carry out a voluntary termination of pregnancy which they cannot carry out in France, either because they found themselves too late in their situation, because they made their decision late, or because they did not have access to a healthcare professional quickly enough. Our approach echoes our five-year struggle with the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women: the fight against women's rights, real access to rights and progress. Beyond the extension of the period from 12 to 14 weeks, we are firmly committed to ensuring real access to the fundamental right of abortion. Along with the Government, the La République en marche group has defended other essential advances, particularly in the context of this bill. We wanted to increase the number of professionals who could practice abortion, and to guarantee women the free choice of their method of abortion; That's why we open the practice of surgical IVG to midwives. At the same time, we have created a directory of health professionals and structures involved in voluntary termination of pregnancy. We have a duty to strengthen the dissemination of this data, bearing in mind that not all women have equal access to information and care. Our duty is also to fight against obscurantism, fake websites, fake green numbers and those who attack women's fundamental right to dispose of their bodies. I hear the criticisms of those who consider it necessary to start by strengthening information on contraceptive methods – in fact, they prefer to do nothing. I also mean those who find the copy insufficient, particularly with regard to the double conscience clause. In both cases, this position and political choice would have given the text only the pleasure of a vote, without the will to succeed. At posture, we will always prefer action. Of course, we need to strengthen information, so that contraception is available to everyone and that everyone knows what is at stake. At the same time, access to abortion must be simplified and strengthened. The La République en marche group has also strengthened access to emergency contraception in this text, and the executive has made permanent commitments to contraception – as the minister recalled. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem and SOC groups]] However, I repeat: it would be too simple to believe that, because contraception exists, the use of abortion would become unnecessary. As some countries tighten up their legislation, I will recall Simone de Beauvoir's words, which we must constantly repeat so that our children keep them in memory: "Never forget that it will be enough for a political, economic or religious crisis to put women's rights in question. These rights are never acquired. You'll have to stay vigilant for the rest of your life. These words, I will repeat them throughout my life, because, while the news is positive in some countries, it illustrates, in too many others, the risks to women's human rights. As the legislature ends, I am pleased that my group has put its energy at the service of this bill, so that women's rights are strengthened, affirmed and strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u43	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u44	We are discussing for the last time a text which has followed a particularly lengthy procedure. Since August 2020, we have opposed it both in form and in substance. On the form, first of all, the Prime Minister made some remarks: "There is a problem of method. The bill was tabled in duplicate at the end of the summer of 2020, as Ms Gaillot's version was added to that of Ms Rixain, Chairperson of the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Women. As a result of negotiations, you have proposed a text that has not been the subject of any advanced consultations, particularly with health professionals. You wanted to work together!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u45	He was!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u46	On the substance, our opposition is stronger, which is paradoxical, you will admit, because we all have at heart to defend the rights of women, especially the right of everyone to freely dispose of his or her body – a right that we defend all the more as it is threatened or even non-existent in other countries, including close to France. However, the lengthening of the period of voluntary termination of pregnancy is not the right answer. The victory would have been in strengthening sexuality education, among other means. Consider that one in four schools does not provide such education, and that more than half do not organize the three annual sessions provided for by law. The role of national education, however, is to ensure that young generations understand all that sexuality induces, and that it must be freely consented to. It is first and foremost through education, prevention and learning to listen to one's body that one will help to limit the number of abortions. The victory – I insist – would have been to strengthen access to the territorial structures that practice IVG. Again, you don't know the reality of the terrain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u47	We spent two years in the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u48	The 2016 law on the modernization of our health system allows for instrumental abortions outside of health facilities. Health centres and family planning and education centres can accommodate the practice of such acts. Yet, these structures do not exist; Very few of them have been opened, and they have not palliated medical desertification. We should have used the time of the debate to find solutions. The victory would have been to undertake more serious work on the reduction of medical deserts. In 20 years, 50% of maternity wards have closed – and effective access to abortion depends mainly on the hospital card. While 80 per cent of abortions are practised in hospitals, forty departments suffer from a shortage of gynaecologists, and thirteen no longer have a single medical gynaecologist. In France, in 2022, women still have to go to another department to consult a gynecologist. To that, your bill does not provide a solution. How many women give up annual follow-up and put their health at risk? The health gap is a social divide – as you know – and the difficulties of access to abortion primarily concern the most economically fragile populations. The passage of the bill will not change that. Are the two additional weeks a victory, and will they prevent women from going abroad for an abortion? The answer is no. In 70 per cent of cases, the cause of late abortion, outside the legal deadline, lies in women's lack of knowledge of their pregnancy status. Foreign structures take care of them at a median time of eighteen weeks of pregnancy. The first contact occurs three weeks earlier, i.e. around fifteen weeks. The two-week extension of the time limit for the use of IVG, to 14 weeks, will therefore have no impact on these women. [[Applause on many benches in the LR group]] As the legislature comes to an end, I am now delivering my last speech in the Chamber. In 20 years, I have had the opportunity to defend causes that are dear to me, such as dependency, disability care and violence against women. It is with emotion that I turn this page of my parliamentary life on the occasion of the final reading of a text on voluntary termination of pregnancy. I'm telling you honestly, you're making a mistake. I believe your sincere convictions, I even recognize some progress in your bill, but listen to the wisdom of an old one: you will have to vote on this text, you will unfortunately discover that women, who are so waiting for us, will not find solutions to dispose freely of their bodies. Once again, the Republican Group will give its members full freedom to vote; For my part, I will vote against the bill, because I fear that those who will be sitting in the Chamber in a few weeks' time will still want to extend the deadline for recourse to the IVG.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u49	Mrs Perrine Goulet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u50	After almost a year and a half of intense and intense debate, this bill comes back to the Assembly for the last time. It is not unusual to discuss abortion in the Chamber; This imposes a certain form of height and, above all, of responsibility: responsibility for an acquired right of high struggle nearly fifty years ago, responsibility for the thousands of our fellow citizens who use it every year – they are almost 200000. While this right is now firmly anchored in France, despite some conservative supplications, we see that it is weakened in many countries, including the European Union and some American states. Let us be lucid: it is also fragile in some French territories, whether because of the convictions of some practitioners or because of a lack of staff. We must seize every opportunity to assert it, to protect it and even to strengthen it. This is the subject of the bill. Its flagship measure is to extend the legal deadline for access to instrumental abortion by two weeks, from 12 to 14 weeks. This measure responds to a well-identified problem: every year, 3000 to 5000 women are forced to go abroad to perform an abortion, as they have exceeded the deadline allowed in France. If an extension of the deadline could question us at the beginning of the legislative process of the text, it appears that no ethical and scientific objections are opposed to it – this statement does not come out of nowhere, but emanates from the National Ethics Advisory Committee which, I believe, must make reference. Let us also congratulate ourselves on having independent bodies that inform political decisions, when other countries refer to anything other than science on these subjects. However, the extension of access to abortion cannot be the alpha and omega of our sexual and reproductive health policy. It must be based on two essential pillars: access to information everywhere and for all, and access to health professionals. However, these two pillars are weakened, mainly due to territorial inequalities in health. It is extremely difficult for some of our compatriots to access clear and legible information on legislation, and to get an appointment quickly from ad hoc structures. We must strengthen the dissemination and accessibility of information, but also strengthen our policy to prevent unwanted pregnancies from an early age. The possibility of rapid access to appropriate health professionals is hampered by medical desertification. This problem has been the subject of much debate in the House, and many solutions have been proposed. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats has dealt with this since the draft law on the financing of social security for 2021, by adopting an experiment allowing midwives to practice instrumental IVGs. The implementing decree was issued in December. This text consolidates and endorses this initiative, which we consider appropriate in every respect. It thus reinforces the major advances achieved in recent months by the profession and improves the offer of care in the territory. To all of these questions, the bill attempts to provide answers. Of course, its provisions are not consensual, as we have seen in these eighteen months of debate. Political and societal oppositions must be heard to the extent that they remain respectful and reasoned. However, in the end, the legislator must decide. And on this subject more than any other, it must do so by weighing every word and every argument. This is a democratic imperative. Within the groups, positions diverge. This is the case in the Democratic Group, which will give each of its members full freedom to vote. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I believe that if we have been able to see what is one of the last texts of the legislature succeed, it is thanks to the important renewal of our assembly in 2017. With 47% of women, this is the most feminized legislature in our history. This has enabled us to advance these sensitive subjects, major societal subjects for the status of women. In this light, Simone Veil's fight is all the more impressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u51	Please close.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u52	At the end of this legislative path, I want to have a thought for all those women to whom we can answer, as well as for the care professionals, in the first place the midwives whose skills we recognize, but also the doctors, whose prevention we must hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u53	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u54	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This possibility to choose, for a woman, is an absolute affirmation of freedom. It is this freedom that we have the opportunity to strengthen. Mr President, I would point out that the previous speaker was longer than I was.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u55	But she had made us revelations about her personal journey. Having said that, I wish you more time in ten or twenty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u56	Not especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u57	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u58	I am very proud to once again, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, to support a text that affects a fundamental right of women: the right to have choice. Almost half a century after the adoption of the Veil law, this very dearly acquired right remains of great fragility. Its full effectiveness is still not guaranteed throughout French territory, as confirmed by the heated debates our parliamentary assemblies have had for many months on this text. Recent historical setbacks around the world, such as in Poland or Texas, show that we still have to defend the right to abortion. Indeed, when we defend women's rights, it is our vision of society that we are talking about. When regimes that do not respect freedoms attack women's free choice to dispose of their bodies and the right to claim their integrity, many fundamental principles are called into question. Let us repeat: every year 3000 to 5000 French women are still forced to go abroad to practice IVG. They are obliged to do so, on the one hand because of the insufficient number, in many territories, of health professionals or adapted services performing this act, on the other hand because of the legal time limit for recourse to abortion, which is much shorter for us than for our neighbours. In my home in Ardèche, 40% of women who use an abortion must change departments, reflecting the shortage of practitioners – a phenomenon that is particularly marked in rural areas. How can we accept that women, sometimes in distress or who simply want to make another choice, are obliged to commit large sums of money to have an interruption of pregnancy practised outside the national territory? Is it not the role of our State to protect citizens and empower them to take on their choices? This is all the more true since the difficulties of access to abortion, as is well known, affect the most fragile – young girls under age, isolated women in rural areas, women who are pregnant as a result of rape or who have little resources. In our discussions, some have said that it is essential to prevent women from being pressured about their decision-making. Let us not forget that the pressures can be exerted in both directions: to practice an IVG, but also to keep the child, even when the necessary conditions are not met. That is why we must accompany women, but never speak for them. Admittedly, improving access to abortion is not limited to the measures contained in the proposed legislation. Structural responses to the management and organization of our orthogen care offerings are still needed. However, this text makes it possible to move forward on major issues, by extending the legal time limit for recourse to abortion by two weeks, by increasing, through the empowerment of midwives, the number of practitioners able to practice it, by strengthening the training of women and by removing the two-day time limit for reflection. Thus, for all the women concerned, but also for all those who, in family planning and associations, support women and girls, accompany them and listen to their doubts and distress, this bill of law defended by Albane Gaillot and then by Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti deserved that political divisions or partisans should be overcome. I salute their work and their tenacity because the text's path has been sown with pitfalls: obstruction of the conservative right in the assembly, systematic rejection of the text by the Senate, position of wisdom held by the majority. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds]] With regard to the double conscience clause, its deletion would have been a major step forward, and the status quo does not satisfy us. The last debate in the Chamber has further illustrated our differences on this issue. This clause does not, however, provide any additional protection to health professionals in relation to the general conscience clause which they already enjoy and which allows them to refuse to perform an act contrary to their moral position. It only supports the stigmatization of abortion as an act of guilt for women. IVG is thus the only medical act for which this double clause exists, making it an tolerated act rather than a right in its own right. In committee, Simone Veil's name has often been given to justify this position, but everyone here understands that the current context is, fortunately, quite different from the one in which the 1975 law was passed. I do not think it is right to bring our current debates back to what was the fierce and courageous battle of a woman we all admire, both here and outside the Chamber, in a society still corset and devoid of women's rights. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Muriel Ressiguier also applauds]] Each fight adds a stone to a building that we want to protect and respect women's rights. We are pleased with this, and we particularly welcome the one won by Colombian women. The General Inspectorate of Social Affairs (IGAS) stressed this: the practice of abortion remains highly dependent on personal and local peculiarities, which often hinder women's free decision-making. It is a matter of making effective a right that is difficult to acquire. However, an essential step has been taken, and while taboos on issues related to women's rights and their sexuality are still present in our society, it is better late than never. It is time for us, ladies and gentlemen, to make the advancement of women's rights a reality. It is therefore with pride and conviction that the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text, of which we have no doubt that it will finally be adopted in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u59	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u60	I would like to make it clear from the outset that the Group of the European People's Party will not give any instructions for voting: it will, in order to respect the personal beliefs and beliefs of everyone, give its members the freedom to express their views in conscience. I will therefore speak on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues who agree with me. "There are still resistances of a private, religious, political nature that make it seem that if women want to abort they only have to take care of it. In these words, the philosopher Elizabeth Badinter, to whom I wished to pay tribute for her commitment to the right to abortion, reminds us of how fragile this right is and how we need to strengthen and protect it. On this day so important for women's rights, I take full measure of what we are about to vote, thanks to the pugnacity of two women, Mrs Albane Gaillot and Marie-Noëlle Battistel.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u62	We will adopt a text that makes the right to abortion a real and effective right so that all women can dispose of their bodies. No one else can do it in their place. How can we forget the context in which this vote is taking place? At the national and international levels, every decline in the means of access to abortion is a source of concern and calls for a strong and determined response on our part. In addition to the question of the lack of adequate structures, it is easy to see the rise of a fundamentalist and conservative ideology that threatens all women's rights. Although they insidiously settle in our daily lives, these ideas must never, never, cast doubt on the legitimacy of our demands and struggles. Thus, I do not forget that some amendments – fortunately minority – did not merely oppose the extension of the legal deadline, but planned to reduce it to ten weeks! We have heard far too many arguments to blame and incriminate women or to denounce the so-called suffering that this text would cause them. This is intolerable to us. This text is not a problem, but a solution for all women who use abortion in France. During these eighteen months of debate, we have tried to demonstrate the usefulness and necessity of this text. History will prove that we were right to do so. I remain firmly convinced that this cause is just and that it concerns much more than the right to abortion. We are talking about women's rights to dispose of their bodies and to be accompanied in a satisfactory manner. In this regard, sexual and reproductive health should be a priority of the legislature. The proposal for a law to strengthen the right to abortion therefore does not come out of nowhere: it is part of the logical follow-up of a series of measures widely supported and enriched by the Action Group in particular. I can mention, for example, the free provision of contraception for all women under 26 years of age or the extension of sexual health counselling to all insured women and men under 26 years of age, decided upon in the consideration of the Social Security Financing Bill for 2022. Although we can and must go even further, in particular on sex education and in favour of a better division of responsibility for sex life – through shared contraception – I wanted to highlight these colossal advances. Contraception is never annoyed and, unfortunately, it remains too much a matter of women. A new stone in a building under construction, that of women's rights, this text shakes our prejudices and the many taboos that are still the subject of the issue. It seeks to provide concrete solutions to the shortcomings and delays in women's health in our society. By extending the legal deadline from 12 to 14 weeks, we are responding to the needs of those thousands of French women who each year leave for abortion abroad, and we are working to ensure that abortion is lived without shame. By opening up the practice of surgical abortions to midwives, we are gratifying the difficulties of accessing the care of women in our territories and ensuring that they are cared for early and close to home by professionals of medical quality. By removing the two-day reflection period, we put an end to the infantilization of women and leave them free to determine the time needed for their reflection – what is important is the moment when one begins to think about his decision, not the time available. By creating a directory of health professionals as well as all the structures involved in voluntary termination of pregnancy, we offer women better follow-up and more comprehensive information on their rights. In requesting two reports from the Government, we ensure that the subject of the right to abortion remains a priority. In particular, it is necessary to continue to identify the obstacles faced by women who wish to abort and combat the crime of obstructing abortion, which is still too widespread. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and among the non-attached Members]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fight was long and difficult, but at last we are here: we are going to adopt a rich and trans-partisan text of which we can all be proud. It is the result of the tremendous mobilization of the entire political class and civil society. We have been able to unite and we will still have to be able to do so. For my part, as many of my colleagues hope, I will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u63	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and La France insubmission of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u64	Since the beginning of the debate, I have been trying to recall the importance of abortion, a right defended by the IDU and independent group. Every year, 2% of women would be forced to go abroad for abortion because they are out of time in France. Our group is particularly concerned about their distress. At the same time, we are not convinced that the extension of the statutory time limit for recourse to the IVG from 12 to 14 weeks is the solution. We will never stop marketing it: the problem lies more in the availability of abortion because of the lack of practitioners and hospital facilities in the territories and the lack of prevention, especially at school. I agree with the words of the Academy of Medicine, which, in a medical opinion, tells us: "Before changing the law, it is always necessary to make sure that everything has been done to apply it. But that's not the case! Indeed, how can we explain that the rate of recourse to abortion in the region of the Pays de la Loire was 11.8 women, while at the same time it was 22.9 women in the PACA region and 39 women in Guyana? These territorial disparities clearly demonstrate that some territories have shortcomings that lead to an IVG, and it is on these shortcomings that we must concentrate our public policies. [[Murmurs and conversational noises in the Chamber]] Women's precariousness is another area of concern in terms of access to abortion. The DREES – Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health – in a recent document shows a clear correlation between standard of living and abortion, stating that the most precarious women use it significantly more than the most affluent women. If the use of GVI decreases with the rise in living standards, it is therefore on this lever that more work is needed. The Government has also addressed this issue by extending the coverage of female contraception to 100 per cent for women up to 25 years of age in the Social Security Financing Act by 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, only Mrs Six has the floor, and I thank you for avoiding chatter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u66	It also seems to me important to insist on the concrete medical act which is covered by the IVG at fourteen weeks. Beyond the twelfth week of pregnancy, in fact, the surgical act is no longer the same and requires the artificial initiation of contractions to expel the foetus. Without going further in the details, let us simply realize the gesture, its necessarily ethical scope and the need to avoid a flight forward in terms of time. The President of the Republic confided to the press a few months ago: "I have not changed my mind: the additional delays are not neutral on the trauma of a woman. » With regard to Article 2, we welcome the maintenance of the legal clause of conscience specific to the abortion, which is one of the conditions for the balance of abortion in our society. The opinion of the National Ethics Advisory Committee states, moreover, that "the practice of an IVG cannot be regarded as an ordinary medical act, the CCNE considers that the specific awareness clause provided for in article L. 2212-8 of the Code of Public Health emphasizes its singularity and is therefore in favour of its retention for doctors and midwives". Finally, we are totally opposed to the creation of a national directory publishing the names of doctors practising IVG, because this publication allows, in turn, to determine the names of those who do not practise it and therefore amounts, in practice, to questioning freedom of conscience. Such a list should be accessible only to a doctor to facilitate the referral of the woman to a confrere who practices abortion with shorter periods of time to consult. In conclusion, we fear that your bill will distort Simone Veil's balance between the freedom of women to dispose of their bodies and the protection of the supreme value of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u68	We are also concerned that these measures do not respond to the problem raised and miss out on the real challenges of prevention, access to reliable information in all territories and the support of all women in their contraception. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] As in previous readings, the IDU-I Group will vote mainly against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u69	The general discussion is closed. I would point out that the Socialist and Related Group is in agreement with the request for a public vote that I have announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u70	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u71	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 191 Number of votes cast 182 Absolute majority 92 For adoption 135 Against 47
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u72	The next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on universal access to vaccination and increased productive capacity to combat the global covid pandemic -19 (point 4826).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u73	In the general discussion, Mr Jean François Mbaye spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u74	More than two years after its appearance in China, SarS-CoV-2 remains present all over the world. Over the months, the pandemic has ignored borders and struck women and men, young and old, humble and powerful alike. Against all expectations, this dark period has emerged various forms of solidarity that have allowed us to stand together against this universal adversity. Under the leadership of the President of the Republic, the mechanism to speed up access to tools to combat covid-19, or ACT-A, was quickly deployed to enable as many people as possible to benefit from the means to combat this pandemic of unprecedented magnitude and nature. The Covax mechanism ensured the distribution of more than 520 million doses of covid-19 vaccine from rich countries to the least developed countries. In this spirit of generosity, France and the European Union have not been left behind, as evidenced by the more than 64 million doses and nearly 300 million doses provided by Paris and Brussels respectively. This was a salutary initiative, considering the extent to which vaccines have been a formidable spearhead against the pandemic. However, there remains a clear and significant gap between developed and poor States in the fight against covid-19. The most convincing illustration of this finding is the percentage of vaccination coverage in the populations concerned. Like many countries in the northern hemisphere, by the end of 2021 France had achieved a vaccination rate of almost 90 per cent of the adult population, while at the same time fifty-six countries, mainly in Africa and the Middle East, had difficulty in immunizing only 10 per cent of their inhabitants. The target set by the World Health Organization (WHO) for 70 per cent of the world's population to be vaccinated by the summer of 2022 appears to be very distant, if not inaccessible. However, the causes of these shortcomings are now clearly identified and have been perfectly summarized by the Director General of WHO, who refers to "the concentration of pandemic tools in the hands of a few countries". Ladies and gentlemen, not only will 11 billion doses have to be produced in order to achieve vaccination coverage so that we can hope for the end of the covid -19 pandemic, but these doses should reach their recipients! Given this unrelenting observation and the extraordinary characteristics of the health crisis we are experiencing, we need to radically change the paradigm of global health. That is the ambition of the resolution that I have the honour to present to you this afternoon. Indeed, and in support of initiatives already under way, it seems necessary to change the applicable intellectual property framework for health products. The negotiations currently under way within the World Trade Organisation (WTO) are an essential opportunity and France, like its partners, must support a position allowing the countries of the South to benefit, in the event of an exceptional crisis, from the knowledge necessary to provide for the protection of their populations. We must collectively realize that the pandemic will persist until at least one individual has the necessary protection. The corollary of this call to support an increased sharing of knowledge and technologies to combat the pandemic is, of course, to enable the construction of health product production sites at the heart of the less well-equipped territories, notably through French official development assistance. In doing so, we will not only enable the countries concerned to combat covid-19 effectively, but will also increase their health resilience to current and future pandemics. Remember that SARS-CoV-2 is not alone in rabies, and that HIV, tuberculosis and malaria also continue to plague the countries of the South, and particularly the African continent. In this regard, we welcome the renewal of our common ambitions in this area following last week's European Union-African Union (EU-AU) summit. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, just as France has everything to gain by putting the preservation of global health at the heart of its foreign policy, our assembly here has every interest in asserting forcefully and solemnly its will to allow everyone, wherever they may be, to benefit from the means to protect their lives in the face of covid-19. I therefore call on you to support and vote unanimously on the motion for a resolution I have tabled, supporting access to vaccination and increasing the production capacity of the means of combating covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u75	Mr Jean-Pierre Door has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u76	For his last speech in the gallery.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u77	Then he closes the door!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u78	The spread of covid-19 is the first to be caused by a coronavirus and endangers all the inhabitants of the planet. According to the World Health Organization, the current global epidemiology of SARS-CoV-2 is characterized by the continued rapid global spread of the omicron variant. All other variants continue to decline in the six WHO regions. Immunization is the most effective and cost-effective public health action to save millions of lives and the development of a vaccine, within less than ten months, against an unknown virus, thanks to new technology, has clearly been an unprecedented technological feat. Many vaccines have indeed taken years of development. Vaccines have been able to deliver on their promise of saving lives, offering very high protection against serious forms of illness, and preventing deaths. Today we can rejoice at the positive development of the future Sanofi vaccine, which is purely French. However, the pandemic is a revealing and accelerating factor in inequality, poverty and insecurity in vulnerable or fragile countries and territories. According to the Director General of WHO, "If we put an end to vaccine inequality, we can end the pandemic. If we allow this inequality to persist, we allow the pandemic to persist. The countries of North America and Western Europe have immunization rates of more than 50% of their population. Southern countries and African countries, for their part, struggle to vaccinate their populations. To end the pandemic, we need to immunize the whole world. More than 75 per cent of all vaccines were administered in only 10 countries. Only 7 per cent of people in low-income countries have received a dose of vaccine: only 11 per cent of Africans, for example, have received at least one dose to date. As poor and emerging countries face the weakness of their health systems, only vaccine solidarity will act against the development and spread of new variants. This is why the VOCAX facility was introduced in 2020. The motion for a resolution No 4175 on the temporary lifting of patents on vaccines, tabled last year by the working Republic Group, found that 70 % of the world's population could not be vaccinated by 2021. The present majority bill repeats the same observation, although unfortunately this deadline has been exceeded. In addition to the temporary lifting of patents, it requested the construction of production sites in the least favoured countries. The majority, however, has a completely incomprehensible double speech. On the one hand, President Emmanuel Macron had spoken, upstream of the G7 Summit of Heads of State in June 2021, for the lifting of patents for covid vaccines. On the other hand, the Minister of Foreign Trade recently affirmed the desire to "further facilitate access to voluntary licences, to compulsory licences that already exist... in the most constructive way possible". The lifting of patents requires a unanimous vote of 164 members of the World Trade Organization. This motion for a resolution, tabled last year, is no longer in line with the current situation of international conferences. Since its deposit, the European Union and the African Union have sealed a "renewed partnership" last Friday, including the launch of a EUR 150 billion European investment strategy and increased aid for the production of covid vaccines in Africa. In addition, WHO has recently designated the first six countries to benefit from a global programme for the manufacture of messenger RNA vaccines, namely Egypt, Kenya, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa and Tunisia. The goal is that by 2040 Africa will be able to produce 60 per cent of the vaccines it needs. The last sentence of the explanatory memorandum, which is difficult to understand, now expresses only vague support for scientific and technical initiatives to combat the pandemic – it is almost a tautology! It is now satisfied, with regard to the African continent, with the sixth summit between the European Union and the African Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The resolution tabled pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution is, in principle, an act by which the Assembly gives an opinion on a specific matter. However, it is proposed that we issue an opinion ex post facto. The motion for a resolution has thus largely become moot. That is why the Republican Group will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u79	[[Applause on all benches]] I gave you an additional 45 seconds because it was your last speech in the Chamber, Mr Door,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u80	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u81	... but I hope that the next speakers will not be tempted to draw inspiration from your example. Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u82	[[Smile]] Who knows if this is not also my last speech, Mr. President? We are currently living in France a slight embellishment in the war we wage against the covid-19. However, this should not lead us to lower our guard: disease will not be overcome until it is eradicated all over the world. If poor countries do not have the opportunity to offer large-scale vaccination to their populations, the world will remain at the mercy of new variants and efforts at the regional and national levels will not necessarily have the expected effects. In the face of the need to put all States of the world on an equal footing, multilateralism and diplomacy have done their job. The states best equipped with vaccines – with the exception of Russia and China, I would point out – organized around the Covax initiative. France played a decisive role in this initiative, first by being at its origin, then by giving more than 80 million doses of vaccine with a target of 120 million doses by May 2022, in addition to the payment of financial contributions. Despite this commitment, however, we remain far from the goal of broad and egalitarian immunization at the global level, which is the resounding testimony of a North-South divide. For example, Covax had distributed 1 billion doses in mid-January, while a target of 2 billion doses had been set by the end of 2021. Far from European immunization coverage, the African population has a vaccination rate of around 10 per cent, with large disparities across the continent. There is an urgent need to change software to be able to respond to the issues. First and foremost, it is necessary to speed up the distribution of vaccines and to increase the effectiveness of Covax, which is what the motion for a resolution we are considering today is about. It is clear that Covax and the principle of distribution are a generous but short-term response to the urgency of the situation. More than ever before, we need to create the conditions for the most vulnerable States to produce and distribute their vaccines on their own territory. If we want to be respectful of the sovereignty of the most vulnerable countries, if we are to establish a partnership relationship, we must leave the logic of pure solidarity. African countries do not ask for alms, they want to create the conditions for taking charge of their own destiny and defining their own public health strategy. This resolution rightly stresses the need for the transfer of technology and know-how. In order for these countries to have better access to immunization through local production, the simplest and most popular intellectual solution is patenting. While this is the most tempting solution, its implementation is, however, a major challenge: it requires the consent of a number of our partners and, failing that, it remains purely conceptual and inapplicable in the short term. This solution has another drawback, even if it is less and can be circumvented: at this stage it has no counterpart in favour of the pharmaceutical industry, which is a severe obstacle to the ability to innovate. Rather than an ideal but inapplicable solution, another avenue has emerged, favoured by the European Union, namely the compulsory licensing mechanism. This mechanism, which has the advantage of being operational much faster, could be activated within the WTO and is better received by States. The motion for a resolution before us proposes a realistic and certainly more effective way in this respect, given the urgency. It proposes to favour compulsory licensing, while at the same time changing its regime to allow for massive production and supply in the national territories. This solution, and this is the essential one, guarantees access to the vaccine through national production and distribution. In the context of the diplomatic initiatives it is taking, France has every interest in defending this balance combining pragmatism and the need for universal access to the vaccine. [[MM. Hervé Berville and Jean-Pierre Cubertafon applaud]] The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats supports this realistic and pragmatic vision, which it considers effective in responding to the global challenge of fighting covid-19. It will therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u83	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u84	Why don't we share the vaccine? What if we allowed all the people on the planet to access it? What if we take control of the market and private interests? With these three suggestions, I sum up in my way the spirit of the motion for a resolution before us: two days before the end of the parliamentary session, a declaration of good intentions to expand vaccination against covid-19 at the international level. As they say in my house, you arrive at bush hour. It is not, however, as if the question had never arisen in two years... In substance, this proposal declines positive intentions, but as far as the delay is concerned, the word of apology will be difficult to write, especially since we have given you many times the opportunity to act in this direction since the outbreak of the covid-19 pandemic. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would like to remind you of the screenplay of the film as you wrote it, so that the end is not too drawn by the hair. For the past two years, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, together with so many others here and around the world, has consistently called for the lifting of patents on vaccines so that all the countries of the world can benefit from them, because we were convinced that this was the best way to fight the virus and its variants. As early as 30 June 2020, when vaccination was not yet available in our country, our group, through Fabien Roussel, asked the Government to make the vaccine against covid-19 a global public good to get it out of the hands of the market and the logic of profit. A year later, on March 31, 2021, in questions to the Government, I asked the Minister of Solidarity and Health about the lifting of patents on vaccines. I would like to recall that at the time, the Director General of WHO was calling for the waiver of patents on medical products for the duration of the pandemic. He further stated that "the flexibilities of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights are there to be used in emergency situations" – and were we not in a situation of extreme urgency? However, the Government replied that this was not the subject and that production capacity did not exist, which was clearly contradicted by WHO. For the past two years, Emmanuel Macron and the Government have played the watch. France initially weighed its weight with the European Union to avoid the suspension of intellectual property rights in vaccines. Then, in the face of the position taken by US President Biden in May 2021, Emmanuel Macron was "very favorable" to the lifting of patents – a posture that has not been followed by any effects: since then, nothing has happened and the situation of vaccination on the world stage stagnates. The figures indicate unacceptable disparities. Less than 1% of Pfizer and BioNTech stocks went to the poorest countries. The immunization coverage of 56 countries, mainly in Africa and the Middle East, is below 10 per cent. The rich countries, for their part, are able to distribute the surplus. According to WHO, no less than 11 billion doses would be required to vaccinate 70 per cent of the world's population. This important figure is even a huge challenge, but we could have met it if we could have given ourselves the means to do so. To that end, courageous measures would have had to be taken to tackle financial interests head on, but the account is definitely not there. Meanwhile, it was the laws of the market that imposed themselves, and the major pharmaceutical laboratories had the time to make huge profits on the pandemic, profits directly linked to the public order of the developed countries. For the Pfizer, BioNTech and Moderna laboratories alone, profits reached 34 billion euros in 2021, or 1000 dollars per second. This is also the "no matter what" that you managed the crisis by deciding to rely more and more on the market. In a way, the market has already won, it thanks you. So now, Pfizer and company, a resolution will be adopted in the National Assembly. [[Mr. Jimmy Pahun applauds]] That said, consistent with the positions that we have always defended, and despite the anger that we feel, but which I have dressed with irony in this speech, we will vote for this text which calls on France to do great things. I hope she does it, at last and without delay.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u85	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u86	I still hear Professor Jacquard's voice resonating in the municipal hall where he gave a decoration to a personality of my commune: "From now on, the most necessary solidarity is that of all the inhabitants of the earth. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u87	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u88	Since the beginning of the crisis of the covid-19, we can only be convinced of the correctness of this sentence. The sixth summit between the European Union and the African Union, which took place last weekend, once again put the issue of universal access to vaccination and increased productive capacity in the fight against the global covid pandemic -19 at the centre of international discussions. It served as the basis for a new African-European alliance to overcome the obstacles arising from the health, economic and social consequences of the crisis. By summer, the Twenty-Sevens are expected to deliver about 450 million doses of covid vaccines to Africa. In addition, they intend to mobilise EUR 425 million to support the distribution of doses and the training of medical teams and to speed up the pace of vaccination on this continent, of which only 11% of the inhabitants are vaccinated. It was also announced in Brussels that six African countries have been selected by WHO to manufacture their own vaccines and the European Commission has decided to invest €40 million to promote these technology transfers. In this context, France is at the heart of the global response to the pandemic. To be effective, this response must be multilateral and involve all actors involved in WHO. As long as the virus remains active in some countries and in some regions, we will all be threatened. Therefore, international solidarity is as much a moral imperative as a condition for our common success in the fight against covid-19. To succeed, we must not only be united and mobilized, but also innovative, responsive and effective. It is in this spirit that France, together with WHO, the European Commission and Germany, launched in April 2020 the ACT-A accelerator – a device to speed up access to tools to combat covid-19 – in order to increase the production of diagnostic tests, treatments and vaccines and to strengthen health systems. This is an ambitious and unprecedented initiative, commensurate with the challenges of the pandemic. Nevertheless, the crucial, still unresolved, question of the lifting of patents still arises. Europeans and Africans hope to find a compromise by spring with a view to an agreement with the WTO, since intellectual property is at stake. Here too, France is at the forefront in promoting the sharing of intellectual property and the granting of voluntary licences to third-party manufacturers of biosimilar vaccines with a view to increasing global production capacity. In particular, it highlights the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP), an organisation founded by Unitaid, of which France is the largest contributor, whose mission is to negotiate the granting of voluntary licences to generic manufacturers by obtaining exemptions from royalty payments by the latter in order to lower the price of medicines. Author of a motion for a resolution on universal, rapid and equitable access to the covid-19 vaccine, adopted unanimously on 26 November 2020, a day reserved for the group to act together, I remain deeply convinced of the need to grant vaccines and treatments the status of a global public good. This is no less than responding to the European Union's call in May 2020 to make vaccines against covid-19 a global public good, so that the people of the world can benefit from it in the context of an epidemic, also global, or at the request of the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, who has shown his desire to see "the future SARS-CoV-2 vaccine accessible all over the world and extracted from the laws of the market". [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, 'from now on, the solidarity most needed is that of all the inhabitants of the earth': that is why the Group of the European People's Party is very much in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u89	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u90	The emergence of new variants is questioning us. The spread of the virus is due to global vaccine inequality: last December, the proportion of people receiving at least one dose of vaccine was 56.5 per cent worldwide, but only 7.5 per cent in the least developed countries. However, their inhabitants make up 51 per cent of the world's population. WHO noted that 68% of vaccine doses were distributed in only ten countries! If, according to virologists, vaccine inequality is not the main driving force behind the appearance of variants, it does play a role in their spread. This gap between the countries of the North and the South is due to the varying capacity of States to cope with the pandemic. They do not all have the same health infrastructure or investment capacity in vaccine production. WHO wants covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to commit themselves to "sharing their expertise as quickly as possible, facilitating technology transfer and transparent licensing to ensure the supply of the vaccine." There is a need to encourage diversification of vaccine production: the greater the number of production sites, the higher the number of doses produced. WHO was formal: effective response to the pandemic required the target of 40 per cent of the world's population vaccinated by the end of 2021 and 70 per cent of the world's population receiving a full vaccination schedule by the summer of 2022. In order to accelerate the vaccination of the population at global level, the European Union has made proposals to improve access to tools to combat the virus and intends to collaborate in the emergence of a form of health sovereignty of the least developed countries. At the European Union-African Union summit on 17 and 18 February, the European Union committed itself to helping the African continent to produce its own vaccines with a rate of 60% self-production by 2040, compared to 1% today. France also takes all its part and contributes to the necessary effort: under the Covax programme, it has provided 64 million of the 284 million doses given by the Member States. This motion for a resolution calls on France to promote and support international initiatives for the distribution of vaccines and anti-covid-19 materials to developing countries. One of the objectives is to enable vaccines and means of protection against the virus to become global public goods. It is the principle of industrial property that applies here. Its purpose is to protect and enhance inventions, innovations and creations. We know that the compulsory licensing mechanism, with the exception of intellectual property, can be used by States to allow a third party to manufacture the patented product without the consent of the patentee. Its use must be motivated by "an emergency situation or circumstances of extreme urgency or public use for non-commercial purposes or anti-competitive practices". The President of the Republic himself stated that "under no circumstances would intellectual property block the transfer of technology that is precisely capable of producing in all regions of the world". We agree: intellectual property must not prevent the vaccine from being produced and accessible worldwide. We therefore support all initiatives that aim to make the vaccine a global public good, always with a view to achieving the WHO target of 70 per cent global immunization coverage. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group supports this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u91	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u92	While populations in developed countries are discussing the opportunity to generalize access to a third or fourth dose of vaccine, nearly 40% of the world's population has still not had access to a dose! In Africa, just 10 per cent of adults have covid-19 vaccination coverage. This unequal access to vaccination is a source of major health problems, coupled with collective moral misconduct. In unvaccinated populations, we know that the probability of contracting the virus and developing serious forms is higher, although we are relieved that the pandemic is curiously almost less intense in Africa than in Europe, which is also a way of measuring the fragility of our more developed societies. Moreover, this unequal access poses difficulties for the rich countries themselves. While we are in uncertainty about the new variants, leaving a large part of the world's unvaccinated population, it is increasing the risks that other more dangerous variants do not appear. If we witness a resurgence of the pandemic because poor countries have not been able to protect themselves against the virus, we will be victims of our own turpitude. However, the fight against this pandemic has given rise to significant initiatives, which must be valued. The WHO-launched Covax programme was the first in history to predict that a vaccine could benefit all countries of the world through a global funding system. It has allowed the delivery of more than 1 billion doses in less than a year, which is a significant result, even though it is still insufficient. We need to go further. WHO believes it is necessary for global immunization coverage to reach 70 per cent by the end of the first half of 2022, to get us out of the acute phase of the pandemic. We are still very far from it. The lifting of patents on vaccines is the only solution because, as the WHO has repeatedly pointed out, it would allow low-income countries to set up their own vaccine production infrastructures. But how can we not deplore France's double speech on the lifting of patents? As early as May 2020, President Emmanuel Macron announced that he would want to make the covid-19 vaccine a global public good, which "will not belong to anyone, but will belong to us all". However, the Government has not kept its promise. While our country is currently chairing the Council of the European Union, the Council of the European Union is still refusing to take steps to lift patents. However, a formal request to that effect had been made by more than 100 countries. To hide behind the argument of the obstacle to innovation that this procedure would represent for research laboratories, i.e. behind potential profits, is a moral error. Let us not forget that the lives of millions of human beings are at stake. How can we allow the virus to spread when we have the means to act? In this regard, I would like to recall that some countries have worked to produce their own vaccines and have proposed making them available to others around the world. I am thinking in particular of Cuba. In the French Antilles, the use of this Cuban vaccine is likely to contribute to reducing the high level of distrust of local populations with respect to messenger RNA vaccines and to increase their rate of vaccination. Isn't it better to be vaccinated with a vaccine that may be less effective than not being vaccinated at all? We should not have deprived ourselves of the opportunities that were available to us when the pandemic was spreading and some had to propose only alternative treatments, including malaria. Before concluding, I would like to recall Victor Hugo's words about poverty: "Legislators and rulers must constantly think about it; For in such a matter, as long as possible is not done, the duty is not fulfilled. Eradicating poverty should be the horizon of politics. Not to ensure that the most vulnerable populations are protected as well and as fast as others is to maintain it. [[Mr. Jean François Mbaye applauds]] This motion for a resolution comes very late, it wants to give a good conscience. France should have taken the lead in the lifting of patents on vaccines, as initially suggested by the President of the Republic. It has not made sufficient commitment to this end. However, since it is never too late to exonerate its faults, the Libertés et territoires group will of course support this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u93	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u94	Not less than $34 billion in a year, or $1,000 per second, is the amount of profits generated by Moderna, Pfizer and BioNTech in 2021. Vaccines against covid-19 generate absolutely exorbitant financial benefits and they are privatized, totally taken over by private laboratories, whereas nothing would have been possible without public funding, without the 30 years of public research on RNA, without the very generous funding by the states of covid research and development -19 – 10 billion were spent on vaccine research alone – and without the dose pre-order system, which protected labs from financial risks by charging the states even though they had no guarantee – they could not know whether the vaccines would be really effective or even if they would ever come out. The Sanofi case, a group that received a pre-order of 300 million doses by the European Commission, has not yet been able to benefit from a vaccine produced in Pasteur's country. Listening to this morning's news, I understand that we might expect the next announcement of a vaccine, but I'm afraid he'll be late like the cavalry. Sanofi perfectly illustrates everything that is wrong in the management of the crisis of covid-19 and French research. This laboratory has benefited from more than EUR 1 billion in research tax credit (CIR) over the last ten years; it realizes 80% of its profits on the sale of products supported by social security; it took advantage of the fall in production taxes and the support of the European Central Bank (ECB) during the health crisis. However, this laboratory has succeeded in having disappointed all expectations in terms of vaccine, having achieved profits of almost 340% in 2020, and having announced, without any shame, the closure of one of its laboratories in France and a plan to dismiss 1,700 employees. It should be noted that the unions expect other bad news. It is not possible to continue to finance such large private groups without imposing social conditions, without taking into account the fact that these shimmering funds are being made at the expense of public research. It should be recalled that basic research, particularly on the variants of covid-19, has been largely hampered in France by a lack of resources devoted to public research or, rather, by the compulsory passage through calls for projects which must be profitable in the short term. What is the result of this policy of privatization of research, obsessed with financial profit? The products needed for public health are now treated as mere commodities, as was the case with covid -19 vaccines. This is no longer acceptable. While these vaccines are considered common goods by the WHO, the laboratories reserve them to the richest countries, creating price competition games, since the countries that paid the high price – Israel or the United Kingdom, for example – get delivered faster. Inequalities are therefore widespread in the distribution of the vaccine. However, the Director General of WHO is concerned about the diversion of available doses from already heavily vaccinated countries such as France, going so far as to say that "unwise recall programmes have every chance of prolonging the pandemic, rather than putting an end to it"! Meanwhile, less than 5 per cent of populations in low-income countries have had access to a first dose, which increases the potential for virus mutation. In the face of these inequities and unworthy bargaining, there is only one good solution: the lifting of patents. Compulsory licences do not help to address these inequalities, because, as Médecins sans frontières has shown, they suffer from too long and complex a procedure. Simplification of their use is a good thing that we will obviously not oppose. However, compulsory licences do not prevent laboratories from paying for the vaccine or even asking for large sums of compensation. It is therefore necessary to put an end to this financialization of public health, and to move away from the charitable model which is of another time and does not work. More than 80% of the doses that the G7 had promised to redistribute were not and, moreover, many of them could not be used due to too short storage times. Nigeria has recently been forced to incinerate more than 1 million doses. It is time to finally offer all these countries the possibility of autonomy and sovereignty vis-à-vis the crumbling laboratories and these logics of bankal charity. This will involve the lifting of patents, which will also lead to lower prices and faster vaccine production, particularly in the poorest countries. In this regard, the Government has taken very contradictory positions. Emmanuel Macron initially opposed the lifting of patents before pretending to join them. In concrete terms, he did nothing to make it possible. As a result, the European Union continues to block this proposal within the World Trade Organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not oppose this resolution, but I ask you to go much further. It is time to rethink public research, to lift patents to free us from pressure from laboratories and to put an end to the vaccine inequalities that gangrene poor countries and endanger the health of all. This is all the more urgent because, unfortunately, other epidemics will come.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u95	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u96	The motion for a resolution tabled by our colleagues in the Republic on the move is interesting in that it constitutes by its single article a call to promote universal access to vaccination and to increase production capacity. This call supports efforts to improve access to vaccination, in particular through the European Commission's Health+ initiative, to share this position in global negotiations and ultimately to devote vaccines as global public goods. As early as November 2020, members of the Socialist and Related Group had tabled a motion for a resolution aimed, among other things, at France's proposal to define the vaccine as a "universal common good". The text stated that discussions should be initiated on international cooperation for the benefit of the poorest countries. In May 2020, the President of the Republic had already announced a commitment to make the vaccine "available, accessible and affordable for all". Article 3 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Applications of Biology and Medicine, known as the Oviedo Convention, states: "The Parties shall, in this case, the States, "take appropriate measures, taking into account the health needs and available resources, with a view to ensuring, within their sphere of jurisdiction, equitable access to health care of appropriate quality. This international convention is the only legally binding instrument on the protection of human rights in the biomedical field. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE), with which I have the honour to represent our Assembly, has already voted in favour of a recommendation on the necessary distribution between countries and within the same country, between priority audiences and others. The current health crises must be an opportunity to rethink not only our social but also our economic priorities. That is why I wish here, Mr Secretary of State, to make three observations clarifying the purpose of the motion for a resolution. The first concerns the place and role of states in the vaccine and treatment research strategy, as well as their relationships with major drug companies. The international community cannot allow the only multinationals to retain the fruits of research that is largely financed by public funds – public research – and social funds – health insurance. In our world, according to several studies, taxpayers finance research on medicines to the tune of about 75 to 80 per cent, and then states let big transnational corporations use the profits to buy their own shares. These practices cover tens of billions of dollars or euros. The state must respond, in conjunction with these large companies, and better govern patents on vaccines and medicines in order to ensure the public good. As economist Mariana Mazzucato explains, there are various ways to conduct a public-private partnership. There may be negotiations between public authorities, researchers and a private company. The knowledge created can be shared more widely, with weaker patents for operators alone. In any case, there are different ways of doing things and some are better than others for people around the world. Ultimately, the mission is not just to make the vaccine: it is to vaccinate everyone. My second observation repeats the call for equitable access to vaccines. If the richest countries have experienced delays in delivery, this means that countries with the lowest incomes have seen their prospects for access to vaccines grow much more. The Director General of WHO, however, recalled that the more we wait to provide vaccines, tests and treatments to all countries, the faster the virus will take over by mutating, the emergence of new variants likely to render current vaccines ineffective. So we need to share better in order to better protect ourselves. My third and final observation concerns equitable access to vaccines and acceptance of vaccination by populations through the development of vaccination strategies. Public international bodies as well as non-governmental organizations (NGOs) must be fully involved in the definition of such strategies, which include conditions for the purchase, programming, storage, allocation and distribution of vaccines. Public debate and public scrutiny will make the management of this public good transparent and make it clear that we are committed to equitable dissemination, high security conditions during development and rigorous monitoring of the health of the world's population. [[Mr. Jean-François Mbaye applauds]] This text has the merit of sending a signal to our fellow citizens, to public opinion, to other States and to international organizations. It carries a message that goes in the direction of recognition of vaccines and medicines as public goods essential to make our world safer and more supportive. We will therefore strongly vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u97	Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u98	The debate on the motion for a resolution by our colleague Jean-François Mbaye is important in many ways, particularly because it concerns access to vaccines and our willingness to put an end to the covid -19 pandemic. I will vote in favour of this proposal, but I would have done so with even more enthusiasm if it were its first version, which is still available on the National Assembly website, where it was hoped that "France would declare itself unreservedly in favour of the immediate and temporary lifting of intellectual property protections relating to vaccines against covid-19".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u99	It was in accordance with the statements of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u100	Paragraph 12 of the single article now reads: "Would that France continue to support a comprehensive trade response to ensure universal and equitable access to products to combat covid-19". By being a little harsh, I would say that it is a motion for a resolution for France to continue. But I won't. Some colleagues have expressed disappointment. I imagine they would have preferred the first version, too. This important debate illustrates our difficulties in establishing new relations with the countries of the African continent. On December 14, the Director General of WHO said: "If we put an end to inequality (vaccinal), we can end the pandemic. If we allow this inequality to persist, we allow the pandemic to persist. This is the node of a fairly simple problem: out of patenting, a point of salvation at the global level, because we will always be at the mercy of new variants. However, 74 per cent of all vaccines distributed in 2021 were for high- and upper-middle-income countries, while less than 1 per cent were for the least developed countries. The African continent accounts for almost 20 per cent of the world's population but only 3.5 per cent of the doses administered since the outbreak of the pandemic. More than a year after the start of the global vaccination campaign, the African population is only fully covered by 11 per cent vaccination. Behind the speeches and motions for resolutions, we therefore need more action and greater ambition in the face of the large pharmaceutical companies, which have generated some EUR 34 billion in profits, as several colleagues have pointed out, and which do not seem to naturally tend towards a sharing approach. In May 2020, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, said that the covid-19 vaccine must be made "a global public good" that "will not belong to anyone, but will belong to us all". On June 10, 2021, the same Emmanuel Macron described a method: "What we must do is accelerate the transfer of technology and the capacity-building of all countries that can do so in the poorest or middle-income regions to produce. It's February 2022. Yes, we really need to speed up! There is a need to accelerate the transfer of technology to operational production sites in Africa. While a summit between the European Union and the African Union was held last weekend, as we have been wondering for years about how to change our relations with African countries and write a new common story, let us start by not leaving a whole continent at the mercy of a virus under the pretext of patents and intellectual property. Yes, the vaccine, health must be a global public good. Not to mention here the humanism that must animate us, reason leads us to look at the issue of intellectual property in a new light when it comes to vaccines, because no country is protected if others remain at the mercy of new variants. As we now know, the covid-19 pandemic is unfortunately not a one-time event and the state of our planet promises us further epidemics in the years and decades to come. The lifting of patents is therefore, like the strengthening of health systems around the world – which is now a priority of our official development assistance – an issue of global health security. But it's a long-term job. That is why we must now deliver on our dose donation commitments until local production capacity is assured. It is, of course, both a responsibility and a duty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u101	Mr President, we must conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u102	I will vote for this motion for a resolution which is in the right direction. But it is also an opportunity to recall that, on the question of the lifting of patents, we are not at the time of history. The more time passes, the more we expose ourselves to the emergence of new variants and a new outbreak of the pandemic. May this resolution nevertheless contribute to progress...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u103	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean-François Mbaye also applauds]] Mr. Member, thank you. The general discussion is closed. The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u104	As the session comes to an end, I thank you for having organized a discussion on such an essential subject, which took place in a spirit of – relative – consensus. I would particularly like to thank Jean-François Mbaye for his commitment and for his motion for a resolution co-signed by the La République en marche, Mouvement Démocratique (MODEM) and Related Democrats, to act together and far beyond. France defends internationally, in the field of health, an approach based on the values of solidarity, the promotion of human rights and multilateralism. That is why I welcome the consideration of this motion for a resolution, which allows me first of all to briefly recall our country's efforts in this area, even before the appearance of covid-19. Indeed, France has long been, as you know, firmly committed to access to vaccines, medicines and other health products that are both affordable and of quality. In particular, through Unitaid, a global health innovation agency and key organization, which we have been funding at 60% since its inception fifteen years ago, has made a major contribution to reducing the price of HIV antiretrovirals, ensuring that they can be widely available and affordable. Today, more than 28 million people, or almost three quarters of all people living with HIV, are receiving antiretroviral treatment, which on the one hand costs less than EUR 100 per year and, on the other hand, is largely funded by the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which we also support. From the beginning of the covid-19 pandemic, in the spring of 2020, we obviously had to strengthen and adapt our commitments. France has taken a very clear position since the beginning in favour of equitable and universal access to vaccines – considering that it should be a "global public good", an expression used by the President of the Republic as early as April 2020 – as well as to all health products to gradually combat the covid pandemic -19: testing, diagnosis and treatment. Along with the WHO and the European Commission, France was in particular directly responsible for the launch, in spring 2020, of the ACT-A accelerator – mentioned several times this afternoon – with its four pillars on diagnostics, treatments, future vaccines and health systems. Nearly EUR 500 million has thus been paid directly to the organisations that lead these pillars of the action. With regard to vaccines, on which your motion for a resolution focuses more specifically, we said in the autumn of 2020 that we should promote the donation of vaccine doses, a commitment made publicly at the Paris Peace Forum, while – let us be clear – most of our major international partners at the time were exercising restrictions, not on intellectual property but on exports, which is much more serious and handicaping. I would like to say that neither France nor any European country has applied export restrictions, even though our vaccination campaigns were difficult to start everywhere. In recent months, despite the various waves and the additional needs that have emerged in terms of vaccination in our country, with more than 35 million booster doses administered in France, our donation trajectory has remained consistent with France's commitment. Thus, 120 million doses will be given by the end of the first half of 2022. France, which is fulfilling its commitments in this area, is today, with more than 80 million doses already transferred and 61 million already delivered, the third largest donor of vaccine doses in the world, under the VOCAX system, after the United States and Germany. The European Union as a whole is by far the world's leading exporter and donor of vaccines. We support several pilot projects. As you recalled, it is essential – even before addressing the issue of intellectual property – to support local production capacities. The European Union has thus released a total of EUR 1 billion from last year, gradually contributing to the creation of three and then six vaccine production hubs on the African continent, a measure confirmed at last week's African Union-European Union summit. Of course, over time – and this time has come, after the various phases I have described – the question of intellectual property, even if it is not the only or the main factor, had to be taken into account in terms of access to vaccines and the concept of global public good was at the centre of our strategy, as we have always said. I will not repeat all the comments that have been made here on this subject. I will summarize them as follows: intellectual property must never be an effective barrier to access to vaccine doses. It is quite right, we have been defending this point of view since the beginning. However, it is essential not to focus on this question alone: that is why I have insisted on the first steps we have taken: export and support for local production. With regard to the discussion on intellectual property in the WHO and WTO, the situation is expected to unfold in the coming weeks. In this connection, I would like to stress very precisely that we support voluntary licences and compulsory licences. From a practical point of view, they are certainly the most effective mechanism for the sharing of intellectual property. Their use should therefore be facilitated. As you know, the WTO ministerial meeting scheduled for December 2021 had to be postponed because of the pandemic itself, but I believe that the ongoing discussions in Geneva are better under way – particularly following the summit between the African Union and the European Union already mentioned – and will soon be concluded. I now want to stress the importance of the European dimension in relation to each of the actions I have described. It is by acting together that we have prevented export bans on our continent. It is by acting together that we have strengthened our production and thus export and donation capacities. It was by acting together that we financed the first local production solutions in Africa, which are now well advanced. It is by acting together, finally, that we will find an effective solution to the issue of intellectual property. On this subject, we must once again take a balance – we demand it: yes, intellectual property is necessary, for without it innovation would not have been possible, but it cannot today constitute an obstacle to vaccination, which is necessary both in the health interests of the whole world and in view of our imperative duty of solidarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] All of this leads the Government to obviously support your motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u105	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u106	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 62 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 62 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u107	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution on the denunciation of the facts and consequences of the military coup d'état of 1 February 2021 in Burma (No 4983).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u108	In the general debate, Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u109	We are meeting this afternoon to discuss together, through this motion for a resolution, the situation in Burma. My colleague Michel Herbillon and I are the initiators of this trans-party text, which now includes 500 co-signatories from all political groups, which I welcome. Why is such an interest in what is happening in Burma, a country far from home, which unfortunately is being spoken of too little and which our compatriots are not familiar with? It happens that Burma is one of the 49 countries that make up my very large constituency, which extends from Ukraine to New Zealand. After decades of military dictatorship, this country has embarked since 2010 on a path of democratic transition, a fragile process supported by the Burmese who, in the general elections of 8 November 2020, chose to give an overwhelming victory to the National League for Democracy, the party of Aung San Suu Kyi, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate. On 1 February 2020, Burma saw its destiny change when the Burmese security forces, because they were unable to accept the outcome of these free elections, chose to carry out a coup against the elected civilian government, to arrest hundreds of people, including U-Republic President Win Myint and State Councillor Aung San Suu Kyi, and to suppress by force and terror, and in blood, all those who still dispute their authority. And so much so for the Burmese killed, imprisoned or persecuted, so much so for the international sanctions that are accumulating, so much so if the Burmese state is in bankruptcy, so much so if Burma is banished from ASEAN, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. And so much so if the country is now torn apart by a civil war that threatens the security of the entire region. This democratic, human and security tragedy must challenge us, as representatives of the nation, for several reasons: firstly, because the defence of freedom, democracy and human rights is consubstantial to our French identity; Then because, through this coup d'état, it is the right of a people to self-determination that has been flouted by the Burmese army; but also because we know too well the price of blood not to rise up against barbarism; Finally, because France, the power of the Indo-Pacific, must not remain inactive. That is why, on 1 February, Michel Herbillon and I wanted to mark this terrible anniversary by tabling this motion for a resolution on the denunciation of the facts and consequences of the military coup d'état of 1 February 2021 in Burma. We have given ourselves time to write this text. He has fed on our meetings and our exchanges with many actors: our ambassador remained there, Christian Lechervy, whom I would like to greet because, with the other agents, he carries out his mission in a remarkable and admirable way; the French of Burma, many of whom have been forced to leave the territory for their security; Burmese Democrats, who organized themselves by setting up the Committee representing the Assembly of the Union – the CRPH – and the Government of National Unity (GUN), which includes democratically elected Burmese parliamentarians, members of ethnic groups or parties and the main representatives of demonstrations against the coup d'état; The Burmese of France who suffer so much to see their country sink. But I also want to mention our discussions with the other parliamentarians – I am thinking in particular of my colleague Alain David, chairman of the friendship group France-Burma, who was very invested in his duties and whom I greet, or my colleague Mathilde Panot, who told me how concerned she was about the situation of ethnic and religious minorities, particularly the Rohingya – a concern that I share. The French national representation embodied in our assembly today has the opportunity to fulfil its duty. It consists in highlighting, denouncing and condemning the abuses carried out by the junta until they cease, but also in expressing, on behalf of the French people, the fraternal and unwavering support of our country to the Burmese people and their legitimately elected representatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC and GDR groups]] I will conclude this statement on a note of hope: yes, Burma is experiencing terrible hardships. But they have united as never before the Burmese, beyond ethnicities, beliefs, prejudices and differences, in the name of a common goal: to regain their country and regain their destiny. Victor Hugo, in Notre-Dame de Paris, wrote: "Time is the architect, the people is the mason. Burma will be reborn. It's just a matter of time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u110	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u111	In the last week of the legislature, the National Assembly decided to include in its agenda a motion for a resolution to denounce the military coup d'état in Burma on 1 February 2021. This text is a follow-up to several parliamentary initiatives in the Senate and the National Assembly. My colleague Anne Genetet – whom I greet – and myself, after having tabled two proposals on the same subject, have not hesitated to leave our political squares and to go beyond the divides in order to unite our forces and to propose a common text that brings together the greatest number of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u113	After many exchanges and extensive work, the result proved fruitful: in very short time, 485 Members of all the political groups joined our motion for a resolution by co-signing it. What a beautiful symbol of our quasi-unanimity at this end of the legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u114	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u115	For what is happening in Burma deserves our unanimity. A year ago, the Burmese armed forces took the rest of the world short by leading a coup against their own elected civilian government. The democratic elections of 8 November 2020, a source of hope for many, have been swept away, Parliament has been dissolved, political arrests have multiplied, the internet and social networks have been blocked, fundamental freedoms have fallen and the rule of law has collapsed. The course of the country's history is reversed and democracy is only a distant memory. For the past year, the armed forces have imposed their decisions by force, terror and blood. The Burmese economy is sinking into bankruptcy and the junta's only ambition is to keep itself at the head of the country by all means. The people are suffering, and it is indeed a humanitarian disaster that we are witnessing, since even humanitarian aid is struggling to arrive. Let us also welcome the work of the Deputy Prime Minister of Cambodia, who was mandated by ASEAN, chaired by his country, to intervene with the Burmese junta, in order at least to enable this aid to reach the people. The international community, the European Union, the United States and the G7 in the lead, condemned this coup. However, this remains insufficient: China and Russia have been arming the Burmese junta that has been slaughtering its people for the past year. In the face of this civil war which is raging throughout the country, France, which is the president of the European Union, which is a power of the Indo-Pacific and which, by virtue of its history, knows the price of freedom and democracy, cannot remain inactive. The total collapse of Burma, a country of 56 million people, would be detrimental to everyone. That is why, through this text, the French national representation intends to solemnly declare that it stands alongside the Burmese, in the name of defending their rights and freedoms. It is up to us to support and encourage all actions and initiatives that can help to create the conditions for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. I would also like to pay tribute to the diplomatic staff present on the ground, to our ambassador, but also to all the NGOs that work under very difficult conditions on a daily basis. Of course, today the eyes are turned elsewhere: the war that threatens Europe is taking our full attention and the Western chancelleries have other concerns. But while the junta does not accept any process of ending the crisis, it is still a rare opportunity that we must seize: it is the one offered by the unity of the Burmese people, who are ready to face, beyond the multiplicity of ethnic groups. So, Secretary of State, let us offer, beyond the symbol, support, recognition, a glimmer of hope for a people who must not fall into indifference. It is a step towards peace and a fight that we ask you to lead, simply because it deserves to be carried out. Members of the Republican Group unanimously support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u116	Strongly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u117	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] I am very pleased to see, together with my colleague Anne Genetet, that the same will be true on all the benches of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u118	Bravo! Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u119	[[Smile]] What enthusiasm... beware, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u120	It's always nice, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u121	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u122	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u123	We are gathered to discuss the situation in Burma, following the military coup d'état of 1 February 2021 and the constitution, a few months later, of a government of national unity by the democratic forces. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this text, Anne Genetet and Michel Herbillon, for having dealt with this issue through two motions for resolutions presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs a few months ago. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who, over the past five years, have animated, fed and fed the debates in our committee. I am of course thinking of our former President, the late Marielle de Sarnez and our current President, Jean-Louis Bourlanges, as well as of all my colleagues who, by the quality of their reflection, have allowed a fraternal confrontation of ideas during our work. I would also like to acknowledge the excellent work done by all administrators during this Parliament. Thanks to them. As parliamentarians, it is indeed our duty to express ourselves whenever democratic values are called into question and violations of the rule of law are made. During the parliamentary term, we conducted two missions in this region – the first led by Alain David and the second by Jean François Mbaye – during which we visited a camp welcoming the Rohingyas, which Michel Herbillon just mentioned. In November 2020, the elections conducted in Burma placed the historic opponent of the military junta, representative of the National League for Democracy party, Aung San Suu Kyi, at the head of the new government. This overwhelming victory was the culmination of the democratic transition process begun in 2010. But, while the army stood as a guarantor of the nation's independence and unity since 1948, it strongly opposed the results of the November 2020 elections, fearing that its influence would be called into question. On 1 February 2021, on which we mark the anniversary of this motion for a resolution, the leaders of the armed forces made mass arrests, while establishing a State Administrative Council. At the same time, the head of the army, Min Aung Hlaing, received legislative, administrative and judicial powers, permanently burying a decade of democratic transition efforts. Since then, violations of the rule of law have increased and measures to monitor and control information have been implemented. The Burmese, who had gone down the street by thousands, were severely repressed. As we speak, these abuses have not ceased and even tend to intensify in the face of the growing organization of several resistance fronts. I would like to recall these frightening figures: 9,000 arrests and a thousand deaths have been recorded in the past year. This situation, repeatedly denounced and condemned by the international community, is unacceptable and has lasted too long. In this context, France, as a defender of freedom, democracy and human rights, must take a firm position. This is the whole purpose of this motion for a resolution, which seeks to affirm, alongside the French Government, the recognition by France of the legitimately elected government in Burma, now represented by the Government of National Unity, and to denounce the abuses committed by the military junta. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and LR groups]] Be assured that the elected members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will support all efforts in this direction and will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u124	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u125	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u126	It is in a particular context that the last text of the legislature, followed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is discussed at the sitting. If it is of course close to my heart, since I chair the friendship group France-Burma, it may seem surprising, if not staggered, to mention such far-off subjects as fighting is taking place in eastern Europe. My colleagues in the Socialist and related group have obviously taken the opportunity of the recent debate on the Sahel or of question sessions to the Government to discuss the dramatic situation in Ukraine. You will understand that I could not go up to this rostrum without referring to it myself. To return to the question before us, I would like to recall that during this parliamentary term, which is full of events, I had the opportunity to welcome, before last year's coup d'état, a delegation of Burmese elected representatives. Our exchanges had been particularly fruitful. At the dawn of elections as a new step towards a more assertive democracy, we referred to the relocation of a delegation from the friendship group to Rangoon. The preparations were promising. Unfortunately, the covid-19 pandemic, and then the coup d'état, upset our plans and we were unable to get there. This did not prevent us from following closely the situation in Burma, which was discussed both in the sittings – during the question-and-question-sessions in the Government – and in the committee, during several hearings of the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. We have also had the opportunity to work closely with members of the Burmese community in France and to receive members of the Government of National Unity passing through our country. This text is therefore the culmination of a long preparatory work. I thank Anne Genetet and Michel Herbillon for their stubbornness, which allowed her to be placed on the agenda of the National Assembly. This motion for a resolution is an opportunity to reaffirm that national representation stands alongside the Burmese, in the name of defending their rights and freedoms. Let us recall once again that the coup led very quickly to the arrest of hundreds of people, including the President of the Republic U Win Myint and the State Councillor Aung San Suu Kyi. Of course, we are challenging the transfer of all powers to the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and the proclamation of a state of emergency for a year. We also deplore the cancellation of the results of the general elections of 8 November 2020, the ban on foreign news channels, as well as the blocking of the Internet and social networks. This collapse of the rule of law is a disastrous reversal of Burma's history. On the occasion of the general elections of 8 November 2020, Burmese voters had indeed given an overwhelming victory to the National League for Democracy, led by Aung San Suu Kyi – who won 81% of the seats in the lower house of Parliament, more than in 2015 – over the Union, Solidarity and Development Party (PUSD), heir to the military regime. The election, whose organization and freedom had been hailed by national and international observers, should be an additional step towards the sustainable democratization of Burma. On the contrary, it was challenged by the armed forces, which, fearing of losing power and influence, eventually preferred to impose their government by force. So far, the junta has ignored the warnings of the international community. In the face of the ever-increasing peaceful demonstrations spread throughout the territory, it used violence and shot with live ammunition to stifle the demands of the population. In this context, the motion for a resolution seeks to ensure that the French National Assembly takes its full part in denouncing acts of infringement of democracy and the rights of a people. To date, France is one of the few countries, with the Czech Republic and Canada, to have begun a process of recognition of the Government of Burmese National Unity in exile: the Senate adopted a resolution to this effect on 5 October. It is now necessary to act, thanks to this resolution, that the National Assembly also calls on France, the European Union and international organizations not to consider the members of the junta as legitimate representatives of Burma. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, together with my Socialist and related colleagues, we will obviously vote for this text and we invite the Government to commit itself to the seven points of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u127	Well done, Mr. David!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u128	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u129	It is up to the national representative to take a decision on a motion for a resolution inviting us to denounce the facts and consequences of the military coup d'état of 1 February 2021 in Burma. On that day, the Burmese armed forces took the rest of the world short by leading a coup against their elected civilian government. Very quickly, they arrested hundreds of people, including the President of the Republic, U Win Myint, and the State Counsellor, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi. They then transferred all the powers to the commander-in-chief of the armed forces who immediately proclaimed the state of emergency for a year, cancelled the results of the general elections of 8 November 2020, banned foreign news channels and blocked the internet and social networks. We are well aware of this chain for unfortunately having observed it a little too often elsewhere in the world: it is the gag of democracy and the shift towards a form of bloody dictatorship. Regrettably, in the face of fierce repression, the international community has remained divided. The United States, the European Union and the United Kingdom have sanctioned the regime in power. The UN Security Council issued two statements expressing its concern and condemning the violence against demonstrators, but it was unable to denounce the coup d'état or threaten the country with further actions, due to opposition from China, Russia, India and Vietnam. Moscow, a traditional ally of the Burmese army, rejected any idea of coercive measures. Moscow also confirmed its desire to continue its military cooperation with the country. Beijing, another traditional support from Burma to the UN, concerned with its strategic and economic interests, also refuses to sanction the junta. However, one year after this military takeover, the observation documented by the opposition, local media and experts is overwhelming: in Burma there are dozens of villages burned, 1500 dead and more than 300 air raids since March 2021. These abuses take place in remote areas of an already difficult country for foreign journalists and NGOs to access. The country is thus plunged into a real civil war between the junta and a constellation of rebel groups made up not only of warring guerrillas, but also of inexperienced young demonstrators. Newly unified around the democrats in exile and their Government of national unity, it takes root in old ethnic minority groups, broken with guerrilla techniques. Among them are the Kachin Independence Army, the Karen National Liberation Army, the Chin National Army, and the Arkan Army, made up of the Muslim minority of the Rohingya. In the face of this escalation of violence and these attacks on civilians, the international community is multiplying its statements, but it is struggling to take concrete measures such as an international boycott of arms sales to Burma, or even a broader embargo. Far from the humanitarian situation, the ruling junta, on Monday, 21 February, challenged the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice to rule on the charge of genocide against the Rohingya, who are almost 850,000 people living in makeshift camps in Bangladesh. We call on all Burmese forces to break the impasse in which they lead their country, to put an end to the violence, to release unconditionally and immediately all political prisoners and to resume the path of dialogue and the restoration of civil and democratic order. The end of the crisis in Burma must involve a political dialogue involving all parties to the conflict, and the immediate cessation of attacks by the army against civilian populations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] Consequently, the Group of the European People's Party is very much in favour of the motion for a resolution and thanks Mrs Genetet and Mr Herbillon for kindly submitting it to our House, which concludes its work on a powerful text which I hope will be heard very far, very high and very strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u130	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u131	Aung San Suu Kyi has become, in more than thirty years, a symbol of opposition to the junta. Awarded by the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991, it is a must-see global icon on the international political scene. On 1 February 2021, the military carried out a wave of arrests, including that of the head of the civilian government, Aung San Suu Kyi, and the President of the Republic. According to human rights NGOs, nearly 1,500 civilians have since been killed, while militias have taken up arms against the junta. The army then deployed troops and armoured vehicles to block the roads leading to Parliament. The military invoked a motive for this coup: electoral fraud, which they call enormous, in the parliamentary elections of November 2020. Aung San Suu Kyi is initially accused by the junta of minor offences: illegal importation of walkie-talkies and non-compliance with coronavirus restrictions. She is charged with violation of a law on telecommunications and incitement to public unrest. Assigned to residence, at the age of 75, she appeared in video conferencing on Thursday, April 1, 2021. She was now charged with violating a law on State secrets, a text dating back to colonial times. It's the heaviest burden against her so far. The motion for a resolution which we are debating is designed to condemn, quite rightly and with the utmost firmness, the coup d'état perpetrated by the Burmese army on 1 February 2021. It aims to express our full support for the Burmese people in their peaceful struggle for democracy, freedoms and full respect for human rights. We hope that it will have a real catalytic effect, as the situation throughout the country is now becoming unsustainable. The lack of peaceful prospects and the growing violence of the junta, the threat of economic collapse, the worrying situation of ethnic and religious minorities, including the Rohingya, leave a little more to be seen every day as a point of no return: that of a country-wide civil war. Artists, students, journalists, workers, monks: they all demand a return to democracy. We must recall that 570 civilians, including some 50 children and adolescents, were killed after the coup in just over two months. The record could be much heavier: more than 2700 people were arrested. Many, without access to their relatives or a lawyer, are now missing. Some 100 demonstrators died during the demonstration on 27 March 2021, the bloodiest day since the coup. In the UN Security Council, Western countries are cautiously pushing for sanctions, but China, a traditional ally of the Burmese army, categorically rejects this idea. In this context, in view of the numerous violations of the rule of law, we must express, on behalf of the French people, the fraternal support of our nation for the Burmese people and their legitimately elected representatives, and condemn, with the same firmness, the actions of the security forces implemented by the State Administrative Council. It is therefore up to us to support and encourage any action, led by the French Government, which would help to create the conditions for a peaceful resolution of the current crisis in order to limit its human, political and economic consequences. Finally, as a centre of international political momentum, the European Union, together with ASEAN, must promote a peaceful, rapid and inclusive exit from the crisis based on a political dialogue process involving all parties in civil society, political parties and ethnic groups. Let us not forget also the repression of the Rohingya, a Muslim minority, described as an attempt to genocide by UN investigators. For all these reasons, the IDU and independent Group supports this motion for a resolution and wishes to point out that national representation is on the side of the Burmese people, in the name of defending their rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u132	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u133	On 1 February 2021, a military coup d'état broke out in Burma. The democratically elected leaders were immediately arrested, and the State Councillor, the equivalent of the head of government, Aung San Suu Kyi, was under house arrest in a secret place. The army had not accepted the outcome of the November 2020 parliamentary elections that had enabled the Aung San Suu Kyi party to obtain an absolute majority in both chambers. Once again, the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize, already sentenced to six years in prison, risks at a time when we are talking about decades of detention. During the bloody repression that followed the peaceful demonstrations, the regime killed nearly 1,500 civilians, and more than 12,000 people, considered opponents, were arrested. At the time, the Freedom and Territory Group called on the Government to fully support the legitimately elected Burmese government and to commit itself to assisting the civilian population in the humanitarian disaster on the ground. A year later, the situation is still worrying. Silent strikes were again held on 1 February in the country where peaceful protests were also taking place, theoretically punishable by the death penalty. Various ethnic minorities are in open rebellion, and they have formed rebel armies that bring together up to 75,000 soldiers. The junta is currently carrying out, in retaliation, a campaign of terror, killing civilians, including by indiscriminate airstrikes The worst atrocities are commonplace. On Christmas Eve, thirty-five to forty people belonging to a Christian minority were burned alive in a village. These methods are not new in the country. The Rohingya minority has been particularly targeted in recent years, demonstrating the important role of the junta, including during the democratic period with 619 Rohingya communities burned between 2017 and 2020. Nearly 1 million Rohingyas have been forced to flee to Bangladesh since 2016. It should also be noted that the military equipment used for the massacres is mainly Russian, but also Chinese. Russia's support for the worst regimes, in Syria, in Africa through the Wagner mercenaries, and in Burma, goes far beyond mere interference. Massacres are also committed: they must be denounced. While international news is very busy with the French military withdrawal from the Sahel, the beginning of Russian invasion of Ukraine or the ongoing tensions with Iran and China, it is necessary that France and Europe do not forget the Burmese people. Under no circumstances should France recognize this illegitimate junta: on the contrary, it must recognize the democratically elected representatives of the Burmese people as the sole political representatives of Burma. While authoritarian regimes around the world are gaining ground, democracy has a chance in Burma. There is no fatality for this country to join the concert of world dictatorships. After the British period and the independence gained in 1948, Burma underwent a parliamentary democratic regime. Military dictatorships followed from 1962 onwards, making the army a central pillar of the country before it experienced an opening period with a transition to civilian power from 2011, a transition that finally brought democratic Aung San Suu Kyi to power in 2015. But the military was never far away. Remaining in power for decades, they remained influential in the shadows, ready to regain control over power, to the slightest economic difficulty, to the slightest political or inter-ethnic tension. And that's what they ended up doing. However, during this period of democratic transition of about ten years has grown an alert youth, mobilized, open to the world, a youth who believes in freedom and is ready to fight for democracy, a youth that is still actively manifesting and which we must support more than ever. While the widespread civil war threatens Burma, we must of course express our full support for this motion for a resolution, co-signed by the majority of the members of my Freedom and Territory Group. I thank Anne Genetet and Michel Herbillon for their efforts to support democracy in Burma. However, one might wonder whether the resolution could not have gone even further. Of course, the European Union has deployed sanctions following the coup d'état, but they remain limited in my view, and our Assembly could call for further, more massive, economic sanctions against the junta. Furthermore, our country must support the various rebel groups that have been structured around the people's defence forces set up by the legitimate government in exile. "We will win! It's just a matter of time," said Zaw Wai Soe, minister of the insurgent government, during his visit to Paris. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Mr. Alain David also applauds]] As you will understand, my colleagues and I will fully support this motion for a resolution to affirm the recognition of the elected government as the only legitimate government and to urge the junta to stop its abuses.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u134	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u135	On 1 February 2021, in a matter of hours, the main figures of the legitimately elected government and 150 political figures, first among them Aung San Suu Kyi, head of government and U Win Myint, President of the Republic, were arrested before being sentenced to heavy prison sentences; powers were transferred to the military command, which immediately resumed its policy of fierce repression of minorities. The junta has drowned in blood the hope of a democratic transition to work since 2012. Let us remember the hundreds of thousands of demonstrators who marched against this coup, the repression that followed for weeks, leading to the deaths of more than a thousand civilians, including children, and numerous arrests. The abuses continue, with hundreds of air raids and dozens of villages burned, as they were just two weeks ago in the Sagaïng region. Beyond these sinister figures, it is the hopes of a people that have come up against the indiscriminate violence of a Burmese army that has been confiscating power since 1962. Let us say this clearly: our group, La France insoumée, strongly condemns this putsch. That is the purpose of this motion for a resolution, and that is why we will vote on it. However, I regret that the text is not more ambitious in its condemnations or in its proposals, and that in particular it ignores a tragedy that has plagued Burma for years: the mass massacres that target the Rohingya. Burma is a real patchwork that brings together more than a hundred ethnic groups, and it has been years since minorities have been abused by a dictatorship that systematically uses armed force against them, and membership of a minority or the practice of a religion other than that of the state can lead to death. But, unlike other persecutions, the massacres perpetrated against the Rohingya, which have been known since the summer of 2017, are supported and encouraged by the all-powerful Buddhist clergy, as in its time by civil power: hate and Islamophobic preaching, denial of the existence of the Rohingya, ultra-nationalist propaganda, lynchings, human trafficking... what is happening is dramatic! I would like to point out some figures: more than 1 million Rohingyas had to flee to neighbouring Bangladesh, nearly 400 villages had been struck off the map, and the United Nations estimates that the 600,000 Rohingyas who still live in Burmese territory are living under the threat of genocide. Let us bear these last words, ladies and gentlemen, because they stress the violence and dangers that this people is facing. Therefore, if we speak about Burma, we cannot ignore the situation of the Rohingya. Nor should we lose sight of the responsibility of the civilian government for these abuses: it did nothing to prevent them and, when the International Court of Justice opened proceedings on this subject in 2019, Aung San Suu Kyi continued to deny the reality of these massacres. The long blindness of the chancelleries has only worsened the situation, while we must recall the continuity of repression between the period of civil power and the new phase opened by the coup d'état. However, the responsibilities are not just political, and I would like to say a word about the role of the multinational Total, which contributed to the financing of the junta for years, before withdrawing recently, following the revelations of its financial arrangements. The motion for a resolution that we tabled a few days ago took into account the 85,000 Rohingya living today in Bangladesh, in the largest refugee camp in the world. Their fate obliges us to speak loud and engagingly. Condemning "these crimes against humanity of potentially genocidal character", our text called on the Government to strengthen international sanctions against the Burmese junta, targeting gas revenues, to condition the return of French multinationals at the end of the abuses targeting the Rohingya and to make the United Nations business guidelines binding in French law. Ladies and gentlemen, in blocking the situation of the Rohingya, this motion for a resolution is deeply disappointing. We will vote for the signal it sends to the junta, but we regret that it does not take a stand in favour of an oppressed people, on whom there is a risk of genocide. On the international scene, we must not follow the logic of double standards; We must be consistent and condemn all crimes against humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u136	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u137	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u138	It's been a little over a year now that the Burmese military regime has carried out its coup d'état. It must be analysed in the light of the very fragile situation of Burmese democracy and the major concessions made by the Burmese Democrats themselves to the army, in order to establish a more open regime within the framework of the 2008 Constitution. In this context the Communist deputies, allies of the Burmese progressive forces, feared from the beginning the occurrence of such a coup d'état: in fact the balance of power between the Democrats and the army was so in disfavor of the former and the grip of the army so pregnant on the state and on the economy that at the slightest vexation the army was already in order of battle to end democracy. The shift took place in the November 2020 elections, where opposition forces won almost 80% of the seats in Parliament: the army felt this score as a real camouflage that had to be punished; On 1 February 2021, it therefore destroyed the democratic system. Since then, the army has killed more than 1500 demonstrators, arrested nearly 10,000, subjected them to torture and ill-treatment. This crackdown has led to nearly 500,000 Burmese taking refuge, under extremely precarious conditions, in neighbouring countries. I share what my colleague Clementine Autain said about the Rohingya, who are also among the victims of this regime. I hope, moreover, that France will support before the International Criminal Court the complaints against all the abuses committed by the junta. In the face of such events, the Communist deputies want to express their full support for the movements that have fought for democracy. The Burmese people will have tried everything before some are reduced to weapons: civil disobedience of citizens, actions of disobedience of officials, peaceful demonstrations, blockades, strikes, dead city, everything will have been tried to restore democracy. Communist MPs also support the Myanmar Trade Union Confederation, whose activists have paid a heavy price. Recall that the Burmese trade unionists have worked with trade unions from around the world, first among them the International Trade Union Confederation, the European Confederation of Trade Unions and, in France, the CGT, all of which denounced the arbitrary dismissal of nearly 300,000 workers after the coup d'état, and officially called for the recognition of the Government of National Unity. The aim of these dismissals was to eliminate any opposition within the state apparatus, first within internal security, but also in schools, hospitals and I pass by... If it controls justice, society and political institutions, the Burmese army also holds the economy, a sector in which the struggle has been much slower to structure: capital has followed the popular movement by dragging feet! The Communist MEPs nevertheless welcome, while criticising its slowness, the decision taken... yesterday by the European Union to place the company that allows the financing of the junta, the MOGE – Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise – under sanction by freezing its funds and limiting access to certain financial resources. This comes a month after Total and Chevron companies took six months to leave Burma permanently. Total will therefore leave by July 2022, 18 months after the coup. It seems way too long, but that's already it. These departures will help to drain the funding of the putsch junta. This motion for a resolution is therefore timely. But if the Communist deputies support it, they regret that it does not call for the recognition of the Government of National Unity, the GUN. The French executive seems to have settled the question since Jean-Yves Le Drian said that he recognized the states, not the governments. I regret, however, that the latter does not remember that this is what he has done in Venezuela. And what has been possible there must be in Burma. The extreme situation demands it. However, our Parliament would have been honoured to urge our Government to recognize the Government of National Unity in order to undermine the political legitimacy of the Burmese junta. It is not too late, and perhaps the member of the Government present here will provide information on this subject. I recall that the objective of the GUN is to build a democratic federal union, in which all ethnic groups will be recognized. This is a project that should have been supported much more firmly. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Mr Alain David also applaud]] That being said, you will have understood, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen: we will vote in favour of this resolution, which we have co-signed, but regretting the lack of the political ambition that would make Parliament the sting capable of pushing our Government to recognize the Government of National Unity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u139	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u140	Daughter of Asia, Burma is sister to India, Bangladesh, China, Laos and Thailand; Its geographical position, a veritable cultural crossroads, makes it one of the richest countries ethnically in the world with 135 peoples who speak about 100 different languages or dialects. Burma is also a breathtaking landscape where the traveller is taken through Lake Inle's lakeside villages, the sublime and majestic Yangon pagoda and the southern beaches bordered by coconut trees. It is hard to imagine that, on this land full of spirituality, a fratricidal war is waged. And yet! After independence from England in 1948, the National Army was the only institution strong enough to impose its authority on a divided country. For more than fifty years, a series of military dictatorships have succeeded each other in one way or another, and with them there have been waves of massacres, reprisals and deprivation of liberty. It is true that hope was already born when the opposition party, the National League for Democracy (NLD), led by Aung San Suu Kyi, won the parliamentary elections in May 1990, with more than 80 per cent of the vote. Surprised, the military junta simply invalidated the elections. The media coverage of the daughter of the national hero Aung San, who has been very popular since her Nobel Peace Prize, has made the Lady the flagship of democracy. To whom, moreover, the West has turned its back after the terrible crisis of the Rohingya and the violent repression of which they are the victims. A democracy that never really existed, it must be said, despite the coming to power of the NLD in 2016, but which nevertheless allowed a certain balance between the Democrats and the junta. Despite the arrival of several hundred members of parliament, the army remained at the command of the country, since it controlled the powers of the Regal. A division of powers which unfortunately failed to put an end to the martyrdom of minorities, who, burned, tortured, shot down, did not end up agonizing. On 1 February 2021, the junta deployed troops and armoured vehicles, arrested the head of the civilian government, Aung San Suu Kyi, as well as the President of the Republic, and thus regained full powers, while continuing the abuses, opening at the same time several fronts. First, that of the ethnic armies, which took up arms to avoid ethnic cleansing of their own, supported by many civilians from these minorities, who had not yet taken up arms. The second, the pro-democracy militants, mainly Burmese supporters of Aung Sun Suu Kyi, who broke with peaceful protests as the situation was no longer tenable. Finally, and this is the new element since the country's independence, an element that speaks volumes about the dramatic situation in which Burma, the Burmese people, i.e. people from the people in power, are in turn engaged in resistance and carry out guerrilla actions against the power in place up to the major Burmese cities such as Mandalay, Rangoun or Naypyidaw. In such a context, the junta is more tense than ever, all the more so as a huge part of the Burmese population and Burmese and ethnic and Burmese diasporas financially support the fight against the Burmese army. While we can welcome the motion for a resolution that we are considering, the men, women and children of Burma expect more from the international community. And France, I believe, can – and even must – play a role, even though we are not Burma's privileged partner. This is a serious time, especially for the ethnic minorities of Karen and Karennis, who are the target of increasing persecution. Whole populations had to flee to the Thai mountains, children were suffering from hunger and whole families lacked access to the most basic hygiene products. In the face of this, France must open a diplomatic path, in particular with China, which has control over the whole region and which equips both the junta and the ethnic militias in arms. In addition, it seems to me essential that France commit itself by sending out emissaries, in order to raise the international community's awareness of the concrete situation in the country. This could be an opportunity for the European Union to get involved, in order to allow the emergence of a stable, democratic federal state that respects the peoples of Burma. In order to alert France and the international community to the Burmese tragedy, I shall therefore vote for this motion for a resolution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u142	[["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LR group]] ... by wishing, however, that it would only be the beginning of a strong and concrete diplomatic commitment by France, as well as by Europe, to the country with a thousand pagodas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u143	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the European People's Party. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Secretary of State for European Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u144	Mrs Genetet, Mr Herbillon, I would like to pay tribute to the work you have done together, around which a broad consensus has been built on this serious issue, which deserves, indeed, through the expression of national representation and the Government, a clear position from France. I believe that this motion for a resolution honours your Assembly and honours our country. If this text is adopted – and we will of course support this position – it will be an additional testimony of our solidarity with the people of Burma, faced with moments of extreme gravity, victim of the indiscriminate violence of the Burmese army. As France has repeatedly expressed, nationally or with its European partners, it remains very concerned about the crisis in Burma. More than a year after the coup d'état of 1 February 2021, which ruled out a civilian government resulting from the free and fair elections of 8 November 2020, and representative of the will of the Burmese people, the country seems to sink into a spiral of violence every day. The fierce repression organized by the security forces, marked by the disproportion of the means employed – war material against peaceful demonstrators – has, however, failed to quench resistance to the coup d'état and dictatorship. The courage of the Burmese people, who so strongly express their commitment to democracy, found an additional illustration during the silent demonstration marking the first anniversary of the coup d'état on 1 February, a demonstration that has been widely followed throughout the country. Let us pay tribute to this courage, which justifies this proposal. France and the European Union have repeatedly affirmed that the regime resulting from the coup has no legitimacy. This is a position that we have consistently and firmly held since the beginning of this crisis. Our collective support is all the more crucial as the humanitarian situation in the country is totally alarming. More than 440,000 people are now displaced as a result of the violence, an increase of 33 per cent between December 2021 and February 2022. The abuses of the security forces go ever further in horror. As France has recalled, we condemn in the strongest terms the numerous violations of international humanitarian law, including the massacre of thirty-five civilians on Christmas Eve in Kayah State, and the burning down of hundreds of homes in the north-west in recent weeks, which are yet another tragic illustration. For all these reasons, France mobilized from the first day to find a solution to this crisis, urging the international community to speak out with a united voice on this subject. First of all, that is what we are doing in international forums. The UN General Assembly adopted two resolutions on the Burmese situation: the first, in June 2021, which calls on all States that have not yet done so to set up an embargo on arms deliveries to Burma; the second, in November 2021, adopted unanimously for the first time. The United Nations Security Council, for its part, expressed itself in several presidential statements, including the last on 2 February. It is a clear message to the regime following the coup d'état and the sign, in support of the Burmese people, that this situation continues to be the focus of our attention and condemnation. On a bilateral basis, we have a strong dialogue with our partners on Burma, in particular – as you recalled, Mr Herbillon – with the ASEAN countries. We believe that the work of this organization, of which Burma is a member, is essential for the resolution of the crisis. This organization has committed itself with determination, agreeing for the first time to become involved in a political crisis of one of its members. The firm position of ASEAN on Burma's participation in its meetings, which it again demonstrated last week, shows that this organization and its member States are fully committed to playing their part. This is the message that Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian made during his very recent bilateral talks with his Cambodian counterparts – whose role you recalled –, Indonesian, Singaporean and Thai, and, again this week, during contacts on the occasion of the forum on cooperation in the Indo-Pacific. Supporting the Burmese population is of course the priority of our action. That is why, despite the difficulties, we have maintained our humanitarian aid. You have also recalled, and I thank you, the exceptional role – and often the courage, given the circumstances – of our diplomatic staff, who also honour our country. This humanitarian aid amounted to EUR 5 million in 2021. We are in the process of defining the precise amounts for 2022; These will be up to the challenge. They will be in addition to the EUR 24.5 million mobilised by the European Union to meet the needs of the most vulnerable in the country. In addition, France will also send this year to Burma, through Covax, which we were talking about a moment ago, more than 1.2 million doses of vaccine. France played a leading role in the overall response of the European Union, not only in the humanitarian sphere but also in the adoption of three sanctions in 2021, targeting a total of 29 individuals, including the Commander-in-Chief of the Burmese Armed Forces and his deputy, six economic entities, including the country's two main conglomerates, and the thirty-four subsidiaries held more than 50% in key sectors of the economy such as precious stones, finance or trade. In response to the escalation of violence, which has reached a new level, a fourth round of sanctions, of unprecedented magnitude, was adopted by the Foreign Affairs Council on Monday. It targets a total of twenty-two additional individuals, including generals directly involved in the abuses committed in the south-east and north-west of the country, and four economic entities providing financial and material resources to the junta. Our position has been very clear since the beginning of the crisis: the sanctions adopted by the European Union aim to keep pressure on the military regime and those responsible for the coup d'état and repression, directly affecting their interests – especially financial ones; At the same time, the aim is to minimize the consequences of these sanctions on the civilian population by accompanying them with humanitarian aid. These sanctions were progressively increased as the situation worsened. We will not hesitate to take new ones if it proves necessary. In the same spirit, we have obviously decided to suspend all budgetary support for government programmes and have agreed at European level to continue to evaluate all the tools, including trade preferences. On the issue of support for the legitimately elected representatives of the Burmese people and for all those who are more committed to the establishment of a free democratic state in Burma, our position is simple: they need a political platform. In this regard, we welcome the fact that representatives of the Government of National Unity were able to speak here in the National Assembly in June 2021 and in the Senate this month. This does not mean, Mr Lecoq, that France is changing its general position: we do not recognise governments as a matter of principle but states. In addition to the question you have referred to, there is also a European consensus on this subject, which has led us to maintain this position to date. At this stage, no State has recognized the Government of National Unity, but for France, this Government and the CRPH must be part of the political process of dialogue that we continue to try to encourage through all channels and which alone will allow an exit from the crisis with the pressure we exert. We will spare no effort to state this publicly or to persuade the European Union to do so in accordance with its declaration of 30 April 2021. [[Applause on all benches]] It is for all these reasons, given the gravity of the time that Burma is experiencing, given the necessary support from France, which engages us and brings us together, that the Government wishes to thank you once again, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Genetet and Mr Herbillon in particular, for this motion for a resolution, on which the Government expresses a favourable position.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u145	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u146	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 57 Absolute majority 29 For adoption 57 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u147	Congratulations to Michel Herbillon!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u148	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to defend the strong demand for European certification of organic salt and its production methods (No. 4820).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u149	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u150	I am pleased to present to you the objectives of our motion for a resolution on European organic salt certification. This text defends an ancestral activity, respectful of the environment: the natural harvest of salt by our sauniers and paludiers of the islands of Re and Noirmoutier, or Guérande, who possess an ancestral and ecological know-how which cannot be assimilated to other modes of production contrary to the virtuous objectives of so-called organic production within the meaning of the European Regulation of 30 May 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic products, which entered into force on 1 January. Beyond highlighting an ecological production activity that needs to be valued, it is also a matter of focusing on consumers, through a key issue: the confidence that our citizens must be able to continue to place in the organic label. We are interested here in the daily lives of French and Europeans; Fortunately, that is also politics. In his motives, the text fully illustrates what we were elected for, and I am proud to engage in this final fight, at the dusk of this legislature. This fight is very much a matter of carrying out a mandate of proximity – with the Charentais-Maritimes, which I know well – of sincerity and passion, which has animated me over the last five years. This text does not deal with any product. Our relationship to salt is ancient and protein-forming, because it has, at all times, accompanied the development of civilization. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, what has been the place of salt in our history? Salt has been, and continues to be, used primarily for food and feed. But the uses of salt have been extremely varied in history, and they will remain so. Salt is found in many human activities related to food, hygiene or care. Our salvator bond to salt goes back to the neolithic, as human societies settle and begin, with the domestication of animal species, the development of agriculture and livestock. Salt is also used for the hygiene and care of the body, in the form of salt water cures or sea baths; It is thermalism, known since ancient times, which has taken the present form of thalassotherapy. These include the cosmetic and disinfectant uses of salt, which are integrated into the composition of soaps or products intended to clean the air. We finally find him in the brine of our preserves. With technological development, salt uses have been further multiplied, particularly in the chemical industry, which values its many properties. Also remember that salt was a royal monopoly. It was stored in the salt attic where the population bought it: it was the gabelle. Once the importance of salt in the movement of civilization has been stated, attention must be paid to its definition. What exactly is salt? Colleagues, do not be mistaken: that is not self-evident! Given the great diversity of its uses and its multiple properties, it cannot be understood from the perspective of a biological labelling of salt as a "univer-salt" product, without distinguishing between natural and non-natural production techniques – even though, paradoxically, salt is a mineral but has retained its natural characteristics. If we do not distinguish between the different types of salt, tomorrow we will end up in a totally absurd situation where organic salt will be poured onto our roads in winter to clear them. The aim of the new European regulation of 2018 was to devote the harvest to the hand of sea salt, based on the natural evaporation of sea water, as the only production actually compatible with the requirements of organic farming. But a cleverly organised pressure has managed to extend the scope under the heading "marine salt and other salts", in order to extend, aberrantly, the eligibility and benefit of this organic certification to production methods totally incompatible with the philosophy and standards of organic production. This confusion is unacceptable. However, if we are confronted today with this enlargement of the field of labelling, it is precisely because we wanted to give salt the organic label, which was not self-evident, since organic certification until now only concerned animal or plant production, while salt – I refer you to our effort to define – is not an organic element. However, there are other types of recovery and other quality signs that could have been sufficient to distinguish the ancestral production from our sauniers and paludiers, respectful of the environment and biodiversity. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to encourage the Government to stand up to the assimilation ambitions of other European Union member States, which exploit only gem salt or mine salt. If you want to preserve a strong and demanding European organic certification and thus strengthen the confidence consumers place in this label, you will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u151	Mr Dominique Potier, the Member of Parliament for Salies-de-Béarn, who I am, gives you the floor, and listens carefully.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u152	Mr President, I salute your humor. Dear Frédérique Tuffnell, you're asking us a good question. On behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I propose that you respond to it with the following path. To please you, by friendship, by ease, one could say yes, without condition, to your motion for a resolution. My group is going to vote on it, but I will first inform you of our questions about the issues that you are raising. You say that organic salt and mineral salt must be distinguished; there are processes that are a matter of craftsmanship and tradition, while others are based on reprehensible extractive methods. The label on agriculture and organic products – which we know well, with Thierry Benoit and all those who are passionate about agricultural issues – does not necessarily refer to processes. It imposes five prohibitions, including the absence of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) or pesticides – we all know them – but it does not deal with production methods. For example, nothing is said about the size of the farm or the methods of harvesting and planting. The question you ask, making the process an important element, is therefore quite new. In the definition of organic farming, what is important is the final product, its intrinsic organoleptic and sanitary qualities, and the lack of trace of everything I have mentioned – genetic processes or synthetic fertilizers, etc. As far as salt is concerned, these arguments do not necessarily hold. So you are asking an interesting question: beyond the qualities of the product itself, should we highlight elements that will not be found in the product, but that stem from a tradition or habit that would be more virtuous than others? Let us beware: certification cannot be a pretext to defend a form of localism when it is a question of defining, at European level, a common language to say what is good in different categories of products. Dear Frédérique Tuffnell, we are going to vote for this interesting resolution because it encourages us to be vigilant, but I wanted to share our questions with you. Let me tell you this: the Government will have to refine your argument if it is to succeed in this matter, and if there is a part of the truth in what you are defending. This echoes other topics – Antoine Herth knows it well. Recently, there has been a lot of talk about HVE, the high environmental value. From the beginning of this legislature, we had called for HVE to become a lever of agroecology. It has been more than thirty years – already organic peasant before it was fashionable – that I think there is no bio on the one hand and the rest on the other, and that we must give a name to the agroecological transition and good practices that have developed. The high environmental value, invented in the context of the Grenelle de l'Environnement, seemed to us to be a good vector of this transition: there was not white and black, but a grey area, where praiseworthy efforts were being made. But the HVE was designed at the time of the Grenelle, and does not incorporate data that are very dominant today, such as carbon. At the beginning of the legislature, we fought to make the HVE the label of good agro-ecological practices, as defined in the law of the future for agriculture, food and forestry, voted in 2014, when Stéphane Le Foll was Minister of Agriculture. So we bridged the gap between the Grenelle, the 2014 law and the EGALIM law – for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet for all – but, in the same movement, we invited the Minister of Agriculture to initiate a revision of the HVE label so that it would take into account new elements, which was undertaken with the Agence française de la biodiversité. I have already had the opportunity to write it in a forum and I express it again here: as with the AB label, we must take into account the carbon dimension. Today, fashion is on low-carbon labels; After the original labels, the geographical labels, the manufacturing labels, we'll get lost! I hope that the main indicators relating to the methods of production and the basic qualities of the products made available to our citizens will be clarified, that they will be updated quickly, in a consensual and democratic manner, taking into account the different scientific data. I am dreaming of an AB label – organic farming – that would distinguish productions from productions produced from reasonable circuits from those mobilising transfers of inputs for sometimes a thousand kilometers, which is totally insane in relation to non-organic productions but whose carbon balance is more favourable. The AB label must include a low-carbon dimension as a social dimension – fair trade; It must go the same way for the HVE label. It is no doubt in this way, by identifying the extracurricular methods that consume too much energy, that we can redefine what is the good salt of the land and the sea, the salt that gives the taste to life. [[Applause on all benches]] These will be my last words in the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u153	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u154	[[Mr. Dominique Potier smiles]] I am probably the least qualified in this House to support the Group of the European People's Party in this motion for a resolution. But before being a resident of the village of Artolsheim on the banks of the Rhine, which the Institut national de l'information géographique et forestière (IGN) identifies as the commune of France the furthest from the seas and oceans, I am a Member of Parliament for the Republic, and that is enough to qualify me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u156	This text inspires two reflections. First of all, it is motivated by the risk of a trivialisation of the organic label, which a European regulation would want blindly to attribute to all kinds of sodium chloride. This would make the Polemists and other Eurosceptics happy, so quick to denounce the totalitarian character of the European administrative machine. For my part, a fervent defender of Europe, I remember that its motto is "United in diversity". The Union is indispensable for each of its members. The health crisis has allowed us to measure it in the field of vaccine acquisition, but it is also true in the case of debt management and, now, in the case of the Ukrainian crisis. But the Union can only resist hardships, achieve choices shared by everyone, if it accommodates unique identities and respects diversity. This is the message we send to Brussels through this text: "Act in accordance with your motto. » The subject of this resolution, salt, inspires me a second reflection. Given the insipid nature of some of our debates, is it not urgent to put a pinch of salt back into our democratic functioning? When I first entered this Chamber almost twenty years ago, and even more so when I was appointed rapporteur of the GMO law – a controversial text if any – I felt like I was at the heart of an erupting crater. While whitening under the harness, I gradually saw the lava freeze, the volcano cool down. How did we get there? It is not the talent of the political actors that we are at stake, let alone that of the officials of the House, that President Ferrand greeted yesterday and that I would like to thank in my turn, and especially those who are in charge of drafting the report. From their pens come wonders, to make the vitality of the debates with justice and justice. Let's recognize it: their talent joins that of alchemists who know how to turn lead into gold. But to be perfectly accurate, their writings should not only specify "Applause on the benches of the center" or mention Mr. Ruffin's interruptions "And Josette? What do you say to Josette? " In fact, we should add: "Members are nervous about their smartphones," or "Ministers are consulting their Twitter account." In addition, only a charitable settlement prevents us from counting yawns. Let's caricature: who could imagine the residents of the French Comédie getting on the boards with their smartphone, consulting their emails or ordering a pizza while waiting to give the reply to Mr.Jourdain? Leaving to look old, I recall that I knew this place without any possibility of communication other than the tickets passed through the bailiffs, because the phones were scrambled. I confess: the deliberations were just as long, but otherwise more involved. Last night, we adopted a text to protect children from web violence. Is it not time for us to apply these good principles to ourselves and eliminate what disturbs our debates? Would we have forgotten that we are here in the most sacred place of French democracy? The philosopher René Girard wrote beautiful pages on the place of the sacred in a society, and more precisely on the importance of the rituals that surround him. These rites allow a people struck by drama to overcome their fears and to resold themselves around the symbols they share; In so doing, he can go so far as to appoint expiatory victims among the elite. It reminds us of 1789 or, closer to us, the yellow vests. Thus, I ardently hope that the sixteenth legislature will be an opportunity to restore the exceptional and unique character of this noble assembly, to put salt back into our disputes, and even to add a good dose of pepper – of Espelette, of course, Mr.President. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Pierre Dharréville also applauds]] To close my remarks, I would like to share with you this sentence of Montesquieu, which the sculptor's talent represented on the outskirts of the Palais-Bourbon, looking at us in an amused atmosphere: "To do great things, you must not be such a great genius; You don't have to be above men, you have to be with them. I dedicate these advices to those who will stand in the general elections, wishing them to draw from this communion with the people the energy necessary for an unreserved commitment. There lies the sacred fire, the one that will give them the strength to put their life and talent at the service of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u157	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u158	Dear Frédérique Tuffnell, you invite us, at the end of this term of office, to express ourselves on a rather specific subject: the certification by Europe of organic salt, and in particular its methods of harvesting or production. You urge the Government to defend this cause, at a time – which I would call opportun – when France holds the presidency of the Council of the European Union. This seems to me to be the right time and, on behalf of the IDU and independent group, I will naturally express an opinion in favour of your approach. You recalled it during your speech: it is a matter of respecting the existing traditions in this area, if I understand correctly – I repeat your remarks, and you will confirm with the Secretary of State that our views converge well – since you have referred to salt marshes, especially those of Noirmoutier and Gerande, while keeping them in a modern state. I would like to echo the words of our colleague Dominique Potier when he put his questions about the allegations made about certain foodstuffs, in particular foodstuffs intended for human consumption. Their multiplication can in fact lead to mislead the consumer, and I think there is something to be considered. It therefore seems essential to recall the following principle, which the Government must defend: if we want to put our action in a tradition while opening it up to a form of modernity, the question of the contribution to a so-called carbon-free economy is paramount. The approach of those who produce and promote salts produced by evaporation and settling can naturally be strengthened by the fact that they work in parallel with the designation of salt marshes as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. That being said, the motion for a resolution does not, I hope, aim at starting a salt war...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u159	No competition, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u160	Indeed, if we think spontaneously of sea salt, we must also, as some of the previous speakers have pointed out, take into account the salts that come from the earth. As these principles are well established, I imagine that the Government will be able to work, at this end of the legislature and during the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to move forward in a pragmatic way the cause presented to us this afternoon. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On behalf of the IDU and independent group, I conclude my remarks by renewing my encouragement and congratulations to our colleague, who has dealt with a subject which I have not spontaneously thought of placing on the agenda of our Assembly – I am a Member of Parliament for Brittany, but for the interior of Brittany, that of the Marches. Dear Frédérique Tuffnell, I congratulate you and thank you for this proposal, which we will support.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u161	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u162	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u163	[[Smile]] First of all, Mr President, I want to offer you my most apologies in advance: next Saturday, Pau receives La Rochelle and, since it is a question of salt, the Paloise defeat is likely to be particularly salty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u164	Your words start very badly, Mr. Member of Parliament for La Rochelle.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. See you Saturday! To the north of the island of Ré, ladies and gentlemen, between La Couarde-sur-Mer, Loix and Ars-en-Ré, we harvest "white gold". At home, there is no need for drilling or even mining: salt has been harvested by hand and in the open air for more than a millennium. This method makes our terroir rich and shapes its landscapes. Elsewhere, the method is different. In the salt mines, a few hundred meters below the earth, pressured water is sent into the rock; the brine solution is then pumped to the surface, where the salt is harvested. The differences are obvious: on the one hand, we are dealing with ancestral know-how and producers who are distinguished by manual work that does not generate any CO emissions; on the other, we are dealing with an energy-intensive process, which also uses large quantities of water. Of course, it is not a question of condemning one production process for the benefit of another. What I want – what we want – is recognition of the specificities of traditional saliculture. Today, the European Commission denies us this right. Regulation (EU) 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic products aims to put both production modes on an equal footing. It grants eligibility and the benefit of organic certification to almost all of the salt production methods that exist today. Thus, mine salt, as well as industrially produced leached sea salts, can be considered organic, without any distinction being made with respect to soil salts. For our consumers, who consider labelling to be a quality, environmentally friendly product, such a label will therefore be misleading. When they have the choice, within a radius, between a so-called "organic" industrial salt and a natural organic salt, there is much to bet that they will take the cheapest, and it will not be that of the small local producer! So how do you want the Atlantic salts, harvested naturally in Guérande, Noirmoutier or on the island of Re, to be competitive against the industrial giants? The 25,000 tonnes of salt produced by our sauniers each year account for just 0.4% of French production. I consider that only the method of production of solar salt has the characteristics of organic agricultural production; As such, it alone deserves to be eligible for this certification, especially since only the artisanal saliculture sector has, since the enactment of the Act for the protection of land for agricultural activities and marine crops in the coastal zone, now enjoyed the status of agricultural activity. This is further proof of its specificity in relation to other salt production, which remains regarded as mining production. It was one of my fights – I had tabled a bill in 2017 to recognize saliculture as an agricultural activity; I am delighted that it has been achieved during this quinquennium and that we finally recognise the role of the sauniers, who are the true peasants of the sea. I would add that to grant biological certification to sea salts alone is to go beyond the simple environmental question: it is to recognize that certain practices, certain professions are derived from ancestral know-how; it is honouring a secular profession that participates in our cultural heritage; It is also – and above all – recognizing a local history and culture. The fear of them disappearing today – and that is the case – should guide our actions. In Ré, our salt marshes are an integral part of the landscape. They have helped shape the fauna and flora, and we all remember with emotion the fears that we harbour when their declining activity could disappear. For us, preserving saliculture is also about preserving this particular environment. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is why, since I believe that the artisanal exploitation on our maritime facades is the only legitimate one to obtain a biological labelling, I in turn invite the Government to defend our terroirs before the Council of the European Union. I shall therefore vote resolutely in favour of this excellent motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u166	Thank you, Congressman. You may have noticed that I did not take into account, in the count of time, the comments you made at the beginning of your speech, which had nothing to do with the subject we are dealing with and which, in any event, are not based on anything. Five years ago, we had the same exchange...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u167	With the same result!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u168	[[Smile]] ... with the same result – I remember it right now! Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u169	The ongoing action of pressure groups at European level seeks to undermine the credibility of the European organic certification. The case we are dealing with today is that of salt, a precious element of which we know what it requires of work, know-how and respect, from the peninsula of Guérande to the ponds of Camargue. It is inconceivable that a group of experts from the European Commission, in this case the Expert Group for Technical Advice on Organic Production (EGTOP), could have considered as legitimate the extension of the benefit of organic certification to methods of production of gem salt. These are not only incompatible with the philosophy and standards of organic production, but also raise broader questions about their ecological consequences. The extraction of gem salt requires the use of large quantities of spring water – as has been said – and energy. We therefore share the concern expressed by the authors of the proposal to reserve the organic label for the most environmentally and health-friendly productions, in particular that of the sauniers, also called saliniers or paludiers, who exploit the salt marshes of our coasts. If we expanded beyond this organic label, it would lose all its raison d'être. The challenge is simply to better protect an activity, which is currently being carried out by some six hundred small producers, for which the organic label represents both recognition and an economic issue. The conclusions of the EGTOP which are at the origin of the current uncertainties raise a more fundamental question, that of the permeability of the European Commission towards the lobbyists of multinationals, than the dysfunctions of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) have again illustrated. We have still not given the latter the means of total independence from the lobbies, since it seems to count within it scientists having conflicts of interest with the major companies in the agri-food sector. According to a report published last June by the network of NGOs Pesticide Action Network (PAN), EFSA has, over the last 15 years, given its green light to 12 pesticides suspected of being genotoxic, i.e. capable of damaging DNA and causing cancer. Such authorisations reflect the limitations of the assessment procedures carried out at European level. Today, the Assembly's Committee on European Affairs was considering the text of a motion for a resolution to safeguard French lavender. Essential oils are considered by the European Commission as chemicals, which leads to a misunderstanding of their nature and how they should be regulated. The categorization of lavender essential oils as chemicals therefore seems to us to be obsolete; Here again, it highlights the difficulty Europe faces in basing its regulatory framework on well-documented analyses based on the realities of the field. It is essential that we have independent expert groups in order to improve the transparency of assessments and ensure more democracy in procedures. In this case, the pressures exerted by certain industrialists, who seek to benefit from the benefits of the organic label without taking on the constraints, naturally call for a strong reaction. However, as an elected member of the Camargue territory, I wonder. The motion for a resolution should not, in fact, lead to the depriving the production of fleur de sel from the saline of Aigues-Mortes of the benefit of the organic label.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u170	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u171	Although salt is not harvested with the same techniques as those used in western France, it remains a natural product that meets the requirements of organic production. Can you reassure us on this point, which will be decisive for our vote? Subject to the removal of this concern, we will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, because it is imperative for France to protect itself from the logic of profit which undermines the preservation of an essential heritage.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u172	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u173	Let us be incisive, ladies and gentlemen! I will begin my speech with its conclusion, in the form of a question: what would be the point of spreading organic salt on our icy roads? As you have understood, the purpose of this trans-party motion for a resolution is to defend a demanding European certification of organic salt and its production methods. I want to salute my colleagues Frédérique Tuffnell, Sandrine Josso and Yannick Haury, as well as our respective collaborators, associated with this parliamentary initiative. Our aim is to defend the credibility of the organic label at European level and, in doing so, to protect the ancestral know-how of French salariers. What is the point of establishing binding organic farming standards if they are bypassed when they are implemented? Should we recall that these standards concern the food and health of our fellow citizens? [[Smile]] When it comes to the quality of productions, it is impossible to ignore the techniques used. The energy consumption of our salt marshes – apart from human energy – is limited to sources of energy that do not rotate any meter: the sun and the wind – this wind fripon which, in the fine days, makes the salt flower rise on the surface of the basins. With a magnificent whiteness, these small crystals rich in calcium and magnesium have the invaluable gift of amusing the palace of gourmets. The salt flower sprinkles at the last moment on the dishes to sublimate the flavor. Who has never enjoyed this final touch on a slice of foie gras or in a frying pan of fresh potatoes? I'm sorry, I'm going astray... The cause is, no doubt, the presence, in my constituency, of starry and twisted tables! I come back to organic salt to greet professionals with valuable know-how who are attending our debates today from the stands! Heirs of distant precursors, the salariers shape their land according to the imperatives of the trade, give it a high economic value and, over the centuries, forge a heritage landscape identity. They are the actors in the protection and enhancement of the salt marshes of Guérande, the island of Ré, the Breton marsh, Frontignan, Aigues-Mortes or noirmoutier, in my constituency. Moreover, the term "recovery" is far from trivial. The manual harvesting of sea salt now brings to life 600 small producers, who, whether independent or regrouped within cooperatives, are obviously engaged in a non-relocable activity. For an artisanal activity such as this, the only way to exist commercially is to be able to justify a selling price higher than that of competing industrial products. The AB label is the guarantor. What we are invited to do today, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely to defend this heritage. Let's recap it. The European Regulation of 30 May 2018 on organic production and labelling of organic products entered into force on 1 January 2018. It is intended to apply to the production of organic salt and should initially devote the marine salt harvest as the only production truly compatible with the requirements of organic farming. However, on 6 August 2021, the EGTOP considered in its report that almost all production methods were eligible for the organic label. Thus, the European Commission is preparing to publish a delegated act to extend certification. Consequently, the production of leached sea salts – a process that causes them to lose their natural magnesium, calcium and potassium content – and the extraction of the gem salt – which requires drilling in the earth's bark and involves an inefficient use of water and energy will be eligible. However, 80% of the salt produced is used to defrost roads in winter. Organic salt for our roads? That's where the bastard hurts! Admittedly, in the face of the many criticisms, the draft delegated act was suspended pending a new assessment report on the different types of salt production. However, this attempt to devitalize the concept of organic production can only challenge us. It is up to us to defend a demanding European certification. In this regard, salt is a symbol because it crystallises the different dimensions of organic farming, both heritage, historical, environmental, cultural and economic. This motion for a resolution, co-signed by more than 330 colleagues, encourages the Government to assume the role of guarantor of the organic label. While holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, France is all the more legitimate to play this role as the organic label was born there. Its use by the European Union should under no circumstances mean its weakening. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us send a strong message to the European Union, to the Government and to our territories! A unanimous vote in favour of the motion for a resolution would be a striking manifestation of our commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u174	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u175	This debate on the European certification of organic salt is inappropriate in more than one way. How, first of all, can we talk about organic salt when salt is not an agricultural product? Salt is a mineral, by inert essence, while organic farming is a science of life. The motion for a resolution is also discriminatory and unjustified. It considers that only Atlantic coastal producers would be eligible for organic labelling and therefore excludes Camargue sea salts with the protected geographical indication (PGI), as well as Lorraine and Béarn gem salts. The gem salt is at least 200 metres underground, at the heart of a site preserved from pollution. It is therefore an infinitely pure and natural salt from an ancient sea, which disappeared 250 million years ago. In this sense, it can be said that the gem salt present in underground cavities is much purer than sea salt. It should also be noted that gem salt mines enjoy natural protection from saliculture facilities, which have free and uncontrolled access and are threatened by pollution. On the different types of salt production, the distinction presented in the explanatory memorandum is caricatural because it stigmatizes all types of production other than marine salt production.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u176	Wrong interpretation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u177	However, the techniques used to extract gem salt do not alter the quality of the product. I will take the example of the salt of Einville-au-Jard, a small village in my department, the Meurthe-et-Moselle. Since 1871, the same method of artisanal and manual manufacture has been used for a salt harvested with its petals. This know-how was passed on between master salinists, according to the technique formerly known as "pan salt". The harvest is carried out by two people, without mechanical equipment. Salt petals do not undergo any washing or chemical treatment or addition of additives. Salt is guaranteed free of GMOs, allergens and ionization. A few dozen tonnes are produced each year and destined for the regional and national market – we are far from industrial production! You will agree, Madam Secretary of State for Biodiversity, that this technique perfectly meets the requirements of the organic label. However, the motion for a resolution excludes such know-how from the organic field, without any rational justification. It would be incomprehensible if France were to defend this motion for a resolution when it was one of the only European countries to have all the types of salt production on its territory. It must defend both the gem salt exploited in Varangéville, Dombasle-sur-Meurthe and Einville-au-Jard, in Meurthe-et-Moselle, or in Salies-de-Béarn, in the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, and the sea salt exploited on the Atlantic facade, in Guérande, in Noirmoutier and in the island of Ré, but also on the Mediterranean facade, in the Camargue. These two modes of production are the pride of France and must be considered in the same way, since in both cases there are indications of quality. Our country has a duty to defend a balanced and strong position, which takes account of all salt producers. Unfortunately, the text proposed to us does not respect this principle of balance, as it allows organic labelling only for artisanal sea salt, limiting itself to producers on the Atlantic coast, who would be the only ones eligible for organic labelling.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u178	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u179	I would add that such a discriminatory position is untenable at European level and could even undermine the stated objective. The proposal for a resolution, together with the proposal for a delegated act set out in the Annex, is restrictive and contrary to the ambitions of the European Commission, which aims to ensure that "the future detailed production rules are consistent with the general objectives, principles and rules of organic production, while respecting the willingness of co-legislators to include the salts referred to in the year of Regulation (EU) 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council". The motion for a resolution does not meet this objective at all because it stigmatizes a method of production which nevertheless meets the criteria of bio and marginalises France's position in the European negotiations. A single principle should bring us together: that all French salts should be certified organic, provided they meet common criteria and specifications. For all these reasons, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject the motion for a resolution, which ignores the excellent salt produced in Lorraine and Béarn. We must respect and defend the professionals of these territories and all those who have worked with them for generations on a daily basis. It's about national cohesion!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u180	That's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u181	[[Smile]] Mr Bazin, thank you for quoting the Béarn more than I did in this session! Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u182	Paludiers to the north of the Loire or Sauniers to the south, they share an ancestral know-how, which has shaped our landscapes since the Gaulish era. They sculpt exceptional landscapes, ranging from emerald green to azure blue, from bright pink to intense red. They offer quality salt in an environment with a particularly varied biodiversity and enjoy a preserved space. They often even work in wetlands of international importance, Ramsar Convention sites, or Natura 2000 sites. Through a skilful course, these men and women push seawater through a succession of basins built on clay soils. Gradually, the water evaporates to finally offer only its salt. Fruit of the sea, of the sun and of the work of men, nothing is more natural than this salt. Thanks to this heritage and this know-how, a dozen salt marshes are still in operation on the Atlantic coast, in Guérande, in Noirmoutier, on the island of Ré and on the island of Oléron, where 600 paludiers exercise their passion, but also on the Mediterranean side – let's not forget it! – in the salins of Aude, Aigues-Mortes, Giraud and Berre. To protect these farmers, a professional certificate of farm manager was created in 1978. More recently, in 2019, the artisanal saliculture sector has benefited from the status of agricultural activity. These measures represent real progress, but they are insufficient. A new step had to be taken with the granting of the AB label, but, as a disaster, while salt had difficulty finding its place in organic products – it is neither animal nor plant, but mineral – a new European regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products has enabled all types of salts, whether marine or mining, to claim the precious sesame since January! This is a total nonsense for small producers, who fear unfair competition that may result from consumer confusion. Let us be clear: unlike salt from salt marshes, harvested manually, most of the French salt production comes from mining, based on drilling techniques. In our large areas, we find hand-harvested salt, but also "industrial" sea salt, which has generally been leached by machines. Under these conditions of industrial extraction and processing, it is difficult to see how this salt could benefit from the AB label since "the salt is then denatured and undergoes the addition of chemical inputs in order to be able to be marketed", as explained by the President of the French Association of Atlantic Marine Salt Producers. However, this is what the European Commission is about to do, since the terms of reference which define the rules for eligibility for the AB label, currently being drafted, provide for the inclusion of all existing production techniques, including, of course, mining. Welcome to absurdity! This motion for a resolution is therefore essential to remind us today that our salt marshes have nothing to do with salt mines and that a organic label can only make sense if it benefits from consumer confidence. How can we trust when salt spread on our roads can benefit from the same label we put on our plates? Through salt, it is all the organic certification that could be called into question! The National Federation of Organic Agriculture explains this very well: in so far as "it makes the organic label less readable for the consumer and removes organic production from its agronomic fundamentals, the organic labelling of the salt as it stands, with the integration of the different modes of production, opens a breach in the credibility of the European organic label". At a time when mistrust of Brussels remains important in Hexagon – a poll in early January revealed a real divide in opinion on the advantages and disadvantages of belonging to the European Union – it is not surprising when you see how disconnected the Commission can sometimes be from the ground. The absurdities are unfortunately legion. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So, yes to the protection of our ancestral knowledge, yes to the enhancement of our cultural and natural heritages, yes to the preservation of our historical and landscape heritage and, of course, yes to this resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u183	Gem salt is not only used to cover roads!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u184	Of course, Mr Bazin, but the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u185	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the emotion expressed by the Member of Parliament Frédérique Tuffnell, as we look at what is likely to be the last text of this Parliament for me. I look forward with you to these months and years of shared work, both on the bench of the Government and on those of the deputies, always with the same passion, the same commitment and an increasingly shared vision of the environment. I think we can congratulate ourselves on that. Your motion for a resolution invites us to discuss future discussions at European level on the definition of rules for certification of organic salt. Regulation (EU) 2018/848 on organic production and labelling of organic products entered into force on 1 January 2022. According to this text, marine salt and other salts intended for human consumption and feed are eligible for certification in organic production, as are other products also covered by this Regulation. In the case of a non-agricultural product, specific production rules must be laid down for salt by a delegated act. The complexity of the subject, the differences between Member States, as well as the concerns of professionals in both the organic and salt sectors, led the European Commission to ask the Group of Experts on Organic Production, EGTOP, to make recommendations and technical advice on organic salt production, to identify existing techniques and methods and to make proposals to define organic production rules prior to drawing up the delegated act. The report, submitted on 6 August 2021, raised many concerns. However, these are only recommendations, since the content of the delegated act which will lay down the production rules for salt is not yet known – the European Commission has informed us that a draft should be presented to the Member States in March 2022. This report takes into account sea salt and mine salt. It offers very few criteria for differentiation between organic and conventional salt. For example, it allows leaching and the use of additives not authorised for salts benefiting from an IGP. It also provides for the possibility of mixing on the same farm site, which is also a concern, and legitimately, for professionals in the organic sector, because of the consequences that this could have on other sectors. Your motion for a resolution calls on the French Government to defend a high level of requirement for organic salt certification, to preserve consumer confidence in this label and to ensure the compatibility of production methods with strong principles such as environmental conservation. You express your concern about certification in organic production of gem salt. You consider that only sea salt, produced by natural evaporation of sea water and involving manual production processes, would be compatible with the requirements of organic production, in particular those of preserving the environment and of the natural characteristics of the product. On the other hand, you feel that gem salt should not be certified organic, because of the methods of its production, which involve the extraction by drilling of the earth's bark, the injection of water under pressure and the heating of the brine to obtain the salt by evaporation and crystallization. Soil degradation and the use of large quantities of water and energy to produce this salt would be incompatible with the environmental objectives pursued by European regulations. I confirm that, when drawing up the delegated act, the French authorities will be very careful to ensure that demanding differentiation criteria are established for organic salt, in accordance with the main principles of organic production. In this way, we will ensure that organic salt is produced using natural production techniques, as stated in recital 10 of the European Organic Regulation, that its production contributes to the development of rural areas and that it respects the objectives of this Regulation. Like you, we want organic salt production to comply with the objectives and principles of organic farming laid down in Articles 4 and 5 of the European Regulation, such as the protection of the environment and climate, respect for natural systems, the maintenance and improvement of soil, water, air and the responsible use of energy and natural resources. We will ensure that this delegated act does not conflict with these issues. With regard to water resources, our course of action must be sobriety and economy: obviously, we cannot describe as organic production industrial techniques that overexploit the water resource. On the other hand, farms such as salt marshes have often been able to ensure consistency between human activity and the preservation of biodiversity specific to these particularly rich ecosystems. It is this balance that needs to be put forward through organic certifications. To meet this objective, we are working in consultation with the various French players in the salt and organic sectors. This work will enable the European Commission to draw up and defend a French position allowing the production of salt according to demanding criteria which are faithful to the main principles of organic farming. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I welcome this constructive work with industry professionals: it shows that ways exist to reconcile economic activities, sobriety and preservation of the environment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u186	In explanation of vote, I call on Mrs Sandrine Josso.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u187	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I wish to speak this evening on the vote on this motion for a resolution, it is because I believe deeply in a society committed to the protection of the environment. That is why we passed the "climate and resilience" law last summer. This European organic salt certification regulation could lead to the disappearance of 600 malaria and saunier producers, most of whom live in Guérande, in my constituency. We are mobilising for them because the European Commission aims to allow almost all the methods of salt production that exist in France. The majority of these methods are known to be the least natural, the most industrial, the most energy efficient and the least environmentally friendly. Mine salt production uses techniques that directly contradict France's sustainable development objectives. On the other hand, the method of producing solar salt, based on natural water evaporation and respecting the season cycle, is consistent with the requirements of organic farming. The production of artisanal salt is therefore more demanding and requires much more personal investment. My vote in favour of this motion for a resolution is part of my desire to guarantee our producers a viable economic model and to bring them serenity for the future. As you know, I have always sought, on the benches of this House, to defend the idea of the interdependence of human health with the environment and animal health. It therefore seems to me important to ensure to consumers that the AB label will not be emptied of its substance, which would contradict all the objectives of sustainable development and improvement of individual health that we have set ourselves. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] It is for this set of reasons that we ask, my colleagues Frédérique Tuffnell, Yannick Haury, Stéphane Buchou and myself, for the recognition of organic salt, thus expressing our support for the paludiers and sauniers, who harvest by hand the only completely natural salt. Not all salts are valid; They complement each other, and that is why they must be distinguished.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u188	Mr Yannick Haury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u189	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the LaREM Group supports this motion for a resolution, which encourages the Government to defend the strong demand for European certification of organic salt and its production methods.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u191	This text, defended by the LaREM and Dem groups, was signed by more than 330 colleagues. France is all the more legitimate in this role since the organic label was born in France and its transfer to the European Union must not in any way lead to its weakening. In the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we therefore hope that the Government will commit itself to defending this method of production, which concerns 600 producers. With this motion for a resolution, it is not a question of opposing, but of distinguishing between production methods. The aim is to defend methods that respect the environment and a heritage. The paludiers and sauniers of our territories repeat ancestral gestures. This method of production also creates landscapes that are biodiversity friendly and highly appreciated by all, resulting in significant economic and tourist benefits for our departments. The salt marsh landscapes contribute to the identity of our territories, such as the island of Noirmoutier, the island of Ré, the gueranda peninsula or the Breton marsh. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To adopt this motion for a resolution is to defend these modes of production which must be preserved and recognised. I am pleased that this text, which defends our territory and our landscapes, can be adopted, largely I hope.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u192	The Member of Parliament for Béarn that I am also don't forget the excellence of Salies-de-Béarn salt!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u193	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-23-O1163.u194	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Statement by the Government on developments in the health situation, followed by a discussion. The meeting is adjourned.
