ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u2	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor to put her question, No. 1614, on the supplementary list for the recruitment of teachers in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u3	The Academy of Clermont-Ferrand, and the Allier department in particular, is in deficit of teachers' replacements for schools for this school year 2021-2022, although the number of pupils in primary school is in decline. While each year this deficit could be filled by using, among other things, candidates from the supplementary list in the school teacher recruitment competition – CRPE – the choice was made this year to use only contract agents. This situation arises when it is known that the massive use of contract workers contributes to the precarisation of contract workers and prevents children from benefiting from adequately trained teachers. Even today, in the context of the resumption of the epidemic, schools in my constituency must call on replacements. The contractual pool is extremely tense and would fully justify the use of candidates from the supplementary list. In addition, it was proposed that the same candidates be recruited as contractors so that they could effectively perform replacements. How could they be satisfied with such a proposal, when they have been trained, have passed a competition and are entitled to a tenure at the end of their probationary period? What is to say about the recognition of their career, even if they have failed little in the competition, if not that all the efforts are worth a return to the "contractual" box? To date, we are too advanced in the year for these candidates to be eligible for tenure for the school year 2021-2022, but this can still be considered for the school year 2022-2023. The choice of using contractual teachers exclusively is not explained when, at the same time, for example, in the Paris academy, while the number of pupils in primary school decreased by 6,000, 45 candidates on the supplementary list were called for replacements. Of course, it is not a question of the thirty-four candidates on the list being called for replacements, but it is simply requested that, as every year, the rectorate make use of this list. I would also like to know the reasons for not using the CRPE's supplementary list, and the possible avenues for these candidates, so that their tenure can be postponed to 2022-2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u4	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u5	I'm going to start by replying to the Clermont-Ferrand Academy, where 105 positions were opened for the recruitment of school teachers for the new school year 2021, and where the rate of return was 100%. As far as the general situation is concerned, you know that in view of the very tense health context for our teachers, we are making a massive appeal at the moment to contractors, individual contractors and even retired teachers. I now come to the general rules. The volume of positions offered in the first degree public teacher recruitment examination is determined, in accordance with the positions voted in the Finance Act, on the basis of criteria such as the forecast of student numbers and the number of retirements in each academy. Each competition results in the establishment of a main list, ranking in order of merit the candidates deemed suitable by the Board. If the main list is complete, the Board may establish a supplementary list of candidates to allow for the replacement of candidates on the main list who cannot be appointed. The mobilization of supplementary lists is adapted for each academy in particular with regard to the consumption of jobs and vacancies during the school year. However, in accordance with the Decree on the special status of teachers in schools and in order to ensure equal access to the training scheme for all successful candidates, this supplementary list is not used to replace candidates on the main list after one month after the start of the training. For the school year 2021, 9890 posts were open for the recruitment of teachers from schools. The competition's rate of return is good, as it is about 98%. In view of the teaching needs of the new school year 2021, eight academies called for the supplementary list beyond the withdrawals, to the tune of 151 candidates, in accordance with the overall volume of posts opened at the 2021 session. Where it is no longer possible to make use of the supplementary list, the new needs which appear are, in fact, taken care of by contract teachers. The recruitment under ordinary law of contract staff corresponds to the level of qualification required to take part in the internal examinations of the various educational and psychological bodies concerned. In addition, in order to give them access to permanent employment in the public service, which is generally sought, these contractors are accompanied and have facilities throughout the exercise, of course, but also to prepare for competitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u6	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u7	I will be very frank: this answer does not satisfy me and it does not respond to the situation of the Allier who did not use the supplementary lists at all this year. It is therefore incomprehensible that only contractors should be employed. I know that there may be a discussion within the department with the academy inspection, but this dialogue is currently unsatisfactory. I hope to have the support of the Government so that this dialogue can really take place, because I am not in a position to explain to teachers who are on the supplementary list why contract workers are used.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u8	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor to put her question, No. 1619, on the National School Sport Union overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u9	I come to talk to you about an injustice that affects all the ultramarine students who practice school sport through the National School Sport Union – the UNSS. The latter are the victims of the federal UNSS regulation voted for the period 2020-2024, which provides for a rolling system for certain sports for overseas departments and territories. While all the champions of the hexagonal academies have the opportunity to participate each year in the French championships, this opportunity is denied to most ultramarine students. Indeed, according to article D2 of the federal regulation, each ultramarine department or territory must wait eight years before being able to send its academic champions to the French championships. Do you think it is normal that there is still such a difference in treatment between hexagonal and ultramarine academies? In 2022, Guadeloupe will be in first place on the list and will therefore be able to send to the French championships its academic champions of basketball, handball, football, volleyball, rugby and other sports organized in "poil", while the champions of the academies of Guyana, La Réunion, Martinique and other ultramarine territories will be automatically disqualified and will not be able to participate in the championships, regardless of their level; As a result, Réunion athletes will have to wait until 2025. I would therefore like to know the reasons for the establishment of such an equality break between hexagon academies and ultramarine academies, and the reasons that arbitrarily rule out many ultramarine young athletes for whom school sport could be a gateway to high-level sport. I would also like to know whether the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, in his capacity as President of the National School Sport Union, has planned to redress this injustice, which discriminates against ultramarine college and high school students, and which is mainly in the face of the statements made by the President of the Republic, who told the Olympic medallists in September 2021, to facilitate the entry of high-level sports students into selective and excellent fields.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u10	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u11	The Union nationale du sport scolaire organises 140 French championships, all categories, each year throughout the country; She attaches great importance to the participation of the ultramarine teams in these different French championships. Your question concerns the qualification of these ultramarine teams at the French collective sports championships. These championships are made up of sixteen teams in general. Qualifying for these championships gives rise to an interacademic qualification phase involving several team champions of academy. With regard to ultramarine teams, it can be understood that it is mandatory to organize this interacademic phase. For the sake of fairness, however, a minimum place is reserved for them. In total, the system of rotation, as it is constructed, does not put our overseas territories at a disadvantage compared to the other territories. It is even a principle of fairness that is the rule. In addition, the federal regulation approved at the general meeting states that in order not to compete with the ultramarine teams, two rules are renewed over the period 2020-2024. First, the overseas regional services carry out a pre-registration which must reach the national management by 15 November of each year. On the basis of the registered entries, a qualification by the National Directorate is then carried out. Second, the final commitments must then be made on the dedicated site, thirty days before the academic or interacademic qualification deadline indicated in the French championship calendar. For the year 2022, in the case of multiple overseas team enrolments in the same age, sex and sport category, priority will be given, as you know, in a pre-established order. This year, priority is given to the Guadeloupe teams, then next year in Mayotte, then in La Réunion, and so on, according to a rotation system. Together with Minister Jean-Michel Banquer, we have asked the new national director, Olivier Girault, a former Olympic handball champion from Guadeloupe, to pay particular attention to these issues, and I have no doubt that he will be.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u12	Mrs Nadia Ramassamy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u13	You just said that priority was given to the Guadeloupe teams, which Mayotte will have to wait next year and La Réunion 2024. You confirm, in fact, what I said, that there is unequal treatment between hexagonal academies and ultramarine academies. It's not normal. Such injustice has no place in France, and I regret that you do not agree with me. We'll have to fight for all athletes to be equal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u14	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to put her question, No. 1631, concerning the situation of the dumists.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u15	People with a university degree in acting musician (DUMI), commonly referred to as dumists, intervene mainly in the first degree classes and play an important role in the implementation of the policy of artistic and cultural education (EAC) and the development of choral singing, which your government wishes to generalize to all our young people. It is important to note that their work promotes the social link within the territories and that, dedicated to the coordination of projects, it enables them to ensure a quality relay between local authorities and schools. In addition, they design, conduct and supervise musical projects to develop the teaching of choral singing and to allow access to musical practice for all, in close collaboration with teachers of national education. While these stakeholders – 70% of women – whose level 6 diploma in the National Register of Professional Certifications attests to excellent training, are Category B employees in the territorial civil service, they still suffer from a lack of institutional recognition, which is the subject of my question. Abandonment of careers, retraining, crisis of vocations and shortage of employment, sometimes difficult working conditions and insufficient wages, they do not benefit from any career progression in their discipline. Whereas initially the DUMI was placed on an equal footing with the general university degree (DEUG) of the teachers, at the level of baccalaureate + 2, a reform allowed the teachers of the schools to access the training leading to the master's degree and thus to obtain, in the long term, a reclassification to category A. The recognition of DUMI at Level 6 in 2017 should allow them to access Category A today, as is the case for other officials in the territorial civil service. However, these staff remain staff members of category B, with a much lower salary scale, in the first grades, than that of other staff members of the same level of qualification. It is therefore a stalemate for the dumists, who nevertheless contribute to the development of a policy of access to artistic and cultural practice for our children in school, which is an essential element in terms of equal opportunities. In addition to remaining blocked in their category, these agents are not eligible for the premiums received by teachers involved in the REP and REP+ priority education networks, nor for the new indexation bonus, and are excluded from the State officials' compensation scheme, with RIFSEEP – compensation scheme taking into account functions, hardships, expertise and professional commitment. I would also like to ask you about the improvements that the Government intends to put in place in order to enhance the value of this beautiful profession. How do you respond to the Dumists' proposal to create a new discipline of artistic and cultural education as part of a multi-grade category A job, which would replace the current category B job framework in the "school intervention" discipline?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u16	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u17	In the civil service, the special statutes define in particular the conditions of recruitment and the tasks applicable to the members of each framework. Thus, the status of Territorial Arts Assistants, Category B officials, differs from that of Territorial Arts Teachers, Category A officials. These two jobs are not governed by the same rules, in particular in terms of access to the body and conditions of qualifications. While the DUMI allows access to the external competition of the framework of employment of territorial assistant of artistic education, it does not allow access to the status of territorial professor of artistic education. However, since 2007 and by way of derogation, a system of equivalence for access to the profession of territorial professor of artistic education has been provided for the benefit of holders of a university diploma of musician acting. The holders of the DUMI can thus register, under this scheme, for admission to the external competition of artistic teacher, speciality music. In addition, the internal competition for titles and examinations for the speciality of music for access to the position of territorial professor of artistic education is open to territorial assistants of artistic education justifying on 1 January of the year of the contest of at least three years of effective public service. Diploma training to participate in this internal competition, particularly in the music specialty, is specified by decree and DUMI is one of these diplomas. More generally, the Minister of Transformation and Public Service has entrusted MM. Paul Peny and Jean-Dominique Simonpoli a mission on pay prospects in the public service. Their work, which involves public service union organizations and representatives of public employers, will allow for a common diagnosis of the current career system in the public service, in order to consider possible developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u18	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u19	Thank you for your answer. You have mentioned some possibilities, but things are still complicated for the people who are in office, and the careers of the dumists really suffer from a lack of prospects; That is why I really want this fact-finding mission to move things forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u20	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor to put her question, No 1617, on the University of Angers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u21	The University of Angers celebrated its 50th anniversary on November 23, 2021, at an event highlighting the diversity of its students' journeys as well as its commitment to providing quality education. However, since the move to expanded responsibilities and competencies (ERC) in 2008, the university has been struggling to receive a student grant that ensures a satisfactory level of supervision. A multi-year catch-up plan was implemented between 2013 and 2017, during which 141 posts were mobilized. This allowed the tenure of contract workers under the Sauvadet scheme, but did not have a real impact on the university's overall management rate. The under-management situation in this university has worsened in recent years due to the rapid increase in student numbers due to the arrival of the 2000 generations and the increasing attractiveness of this university with excellent results. From the 2018 employment campaign to the 2021 campaign, the University of Angers did not receive any notified state posts. However, it has succeeded in creating a few positions – mostly contractual – through controlled management of its payroll, increased own resources, community involvement in the response to the Investment Plan for the Future (IPA) and calls for research projects. I have repeatedly called on the Minister for Higher Education, and the University of Angers itself has mobilized a great deal, obtaining 2 million euros in additional resources. This additional funding has led to the creation of ten posts of teachers and researchers on the State ceiling, as part of the employment campaign of 2022. If this is a significant step forward that should be welcomed, this EUR 2 million will not be enough to catch up with the structural sub-framework that the university has been experiencing since 2008 or to provide 26000 students with a level of supervision close to the university average. In order to improve the working conditions of the teams and to ensure quality education, a multi-year commitment by the State would enable the University of Angers to catch up with the results and reach. Is such a perspective envisaged?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u22	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u23	I really want to assure you that the situation at the University of Angers is being carefully examined by the Ministry of Higher Education. Since 2018, it has benefited from new resources for the implementation of the Student Guidance and Success Act (ORE). These long-term funding amounting to €1.7 million for 2018-2020 re-entry was allocated in return for university commitments to deploy student success schemes and pathways as well as to open additional places. In total, the grant for public service expenses allocated to the University of Angers was increased by 10% between 2017 and 2021 and, if the average grant per student remained in 2020 at a lower than average level for multidisciplinary universities with a health curriculum, the institution received substantial financial support in 2021, allowing it to close this gap. In 2021, the grant allocated to the University of Angers was therefore abounded by €6 million. These additional resources correspond to financial support, additional funding for the implementation of the law on the guidance and success of students, and new resources under the Research Programming Act (LPR), amounting to EUR 1.5 million – in terms of resources for laboratories, the financing of new measures aimed in particular at improving the remuneration and careers of research staff, and the creation of two junior professor chairs; moreover, with a view to continuously improving the quality of higher education, ten jobs were notified to the university in 2021, both to strengthen its research policy and to improve the supervisory rates. Finally, a financial contribution from the Ministry of Higher Education, Research and Innovation (MESRI) for the financing of projects validated under the second phase of the strategic and management dialogue, constituting a concrete declination of the priorities of the site contract, strongly illustrates the institution's efforts to implement the objectives jointly defined with the State. Furthermore, in real estate, the University of Angers is also supported by the MESRI. Nine real estate operations are included in the 2015-2020 State-Region Plan (CPER) contract of the Pays de la Loire for the university, representing a total investment of 29.5 million euros, of which just over 10 million euros are financed by the MESRI. As you can see, the state is at the forefront of the development of the University of Angers, especially since 2017, after a decade of budgetary freeze. The Government hopes that this policy of strengthening the capacity of universities will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u24	Mrs Stella Dupont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u25	Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for reminding you of the general support provided by the State, but I would like to stress that the rate of supervision at the University of Angers is essential to the policy that can be pursued by such a university and requires specific support, as well as visibility over time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u26	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor to raise her question, No. 1616, concerning places in medical and educational institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u27	I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State for Disabled Persons to the lack of places available in the medical and educational institutes (IME) in my department of Aisne. Although the Government has made disability one of its top priorities over the past five years, the issue of access to an EMI place for children remains an issue. I am aware of all the work that has been done since the beginning of the quinquennium and I welcome the willingness – I quote Sophie Cluzel – to "normalize the way of disabled students to school and look at them now as students in a position to learn with others. Nevertheless, it is true that difficulties may persist, including when the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities (CDAPH) is referring to this type of institution. In Aisne there are 15 EMIs with a total capacity of 992 places. For the prefecture-city of Laon, there is only one facility with a capacity of sixty-nine places. The care and appropriate support of children and young people with disabilities is a source of concern for many parents. As a result, 30 children are already on the waiting list due to a lack of space. This expectation is particularly long and difficult for children, of course, but also and especially for parents. In some cases, in the absence of a suitable solution, one of the parents is even obliged to leave his or her job to accompany his or her child. I am aware of Mrs Cluzel's commitment to the issue of disability and I would also like to commend the quality of the work carried out by her ministry, including the introduction of numerous measures to relieve the daily lives of families, as I was able to see during the visit of the Secretary of State to Laon. Thus, within the framework of the various national plans committed between 2017 and 2021, it is planned to create 1,400 seats in the EMI. Can you tell me if this objective can be achieved and the number of places that have been and will be created in the Aisne?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u28	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u29	Madam Member, thank you for the correctness of your question. If the Ministry of National Education, which I represent, is fully mobilized alongside Sophie Cluzel to make the school an ever more inclusive place of reception for all our students, I obviously hear through your question the disarray of some families. That is true, there is not yet a suitable response for every child, but we are really working to remedy this situation, and I want the families concerned to be assured of it. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have been working to secure the courses of students with disabilities. We have deployed mobile school support teams. The aim of these new arrangements is to promote the continuity of the student's journey, by providing medical and social support to the teaching teams. These mobile teams, organized in a departmental network, are a valuable resource and support to support teachers, and often to enable children with disabilities to continue their schooling in school. In the fall of 2021, 166 mobile teams were mobilized to provide a gridded response across the country. At the same time, we continue to strengthen the capacity of the associations, which in particular led to the deployment of new medico-social solutions in 2021. In Aisne, approximately 600 places under the special education and home care services (SESSAD) and nearly 1000 places in EMI were created.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u30	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u31	Since 2017, we have strengthened the resources allocated in this department by equipping it with three mobile teams to support the schooling of autistic children, with the planned opening of a new class at the next re-entry in September, dozens of new places in SESSAD, two innovative accompaniment schemes – the centres of skills and outsourced services (PCPE) –, a respite house from April onwards, but also new places intended to reinforce the journeys of young adults, within the framework of the plan to prevent departures in Belgium, to which 90 million euros have been dedicated. Madam Member, thanks to all these actions, we are responding to the situations on which you are drawing attention, with the dual objective of ensuring inclusion for all and providing solutions tailored to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u32	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u33	[[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] Madam Secretary of State, thank you very much for all these details. I know your involvement, I know the efforts that have been made for four years in the ministries, but I assure you that receiving parents whose children do not have a place in the EMI remains a real suffering, when they cannot be offered one, when they must be told that they will have to go abroad or leave their jobs. As a member of Parliament, it's a terrible time to live. But I may also speak as a mother: we need to find solutions for these children on waiting lists who need you, us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u34	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor to put her question, No. 1630, concerning the situation in the medical and social institutes in Isère.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u35	Madam Secretary of State for Priority Education, I would also like to draw your attention to the threat to the quality of care for children with disabilities, which the State has recently decided to change. In Isère as elsewhere, these changes are a cause for concern for families. The Regional Health Agency (ARS) Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes announced the decision to close in Isère 200 of the 1200 places in medical-educational institute (IME). These closures are designed to transform full-time places into part-time places to accommodate more children at constant cost, a change that will destabilize many families. It is anticipated that children will be provided with special education and home care services (SESSAD) for the rest of the time: they will either be accompanied at home or included in school, as recommended by the United Nations. However, there are already very long waiting lists for access to SESSADs. Families are oriented towards liberal care that is difficult to coordinate for the whole day. The Government's choice therefore refers to families for the support of their children, the coordination of professional interventions or the organization of transport. They may therefore find themselves even more isolated than they already are. The increased use of part-time work in the EMI makes it possible to take care of more children, but it also increases the risk of desocialisation for those who spend the rest of their time at home. Children who will be included in schools will face a lack of capacity for national disability education. Teachers also fear that they will not be able to accommodate children in good conditions in the face of the lack of training and the shortage of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH). Parents who are very concerned about the future of their children are organizing themselves, mobilizing themselves to make their voices heard because these closures are carried out without consultation: there is no discussion with the families or with the managers of the institutions who are called on to carry out their multi-year contract of objectives and means (CPOM). Madam Secretary of State, there is a need to strengthen and improve the care of children in IME and SESSAD. To do this, we need to listen and listen to the families and professionals in the sector who are only asking to be involved in the reflections to move forward on these issues. How does the Government intend to respond to the strong concerns expressed by those parties? What is your plan to meet the needs of parents for whom home care is not a possible solution, given their child's disability or simply because they work? How will the medical, paramedical, school and social care of children be carried out? Lastly, what means does the Government intend to provide national education to accommodate and respond to the special needs of children with disabilities in school? Without an adequate response, care "outside the walls" can only be done to the detriment of children and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u36	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u37	Mrs Battistel, thank you for your question, which is in line with that of your colleague. We are working collectively for an ever more inclusive society, and I hear the dismay of those families who do not find solutions for their children. You will excuse the somewhat technical nature of my answer. I wish I could have shown more empathy about a deeply human issue. The transformation of the support offer to persons with disabilities in which we are committed is based on taking into account the needs and expectations of children and their families. This policy of adapting the offer is not an option and we do it every day. Based on the needs of the territories, in consultation with the associations and with the ARS, we are developing solutions in the field of medical and social services. In this context, there has never been any question of degrading the reception offer by removing 200 EMI places in Isère, nor has it been envisaged that the burden of accompaniment and medico-social coordination should be placed on families. It is a matter of reorienting the means allocated today to the modalities of care little demanded by parents and children...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u38	That in elegant terms, these things are said.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u39	... towards more demanding devices. There is, for example, a lower demand from parents for boarding schools, which, depending on the sector, have activity rates of about 60%. We cannot be satisfied with vacant places. This is why we are turning boarding places into day reception places or even from SESSAD. That is what the families are asking for, and that is what we want to offer them. Thus, almost sixty-one EMI places will be reoriented, not removed, to be converted into specialized support places that respond more to the needs expressed by families. This is an inclusive transformation, resulting in the creation of 185 places, particularly in SESSAD. In addition, the means of inclusion are being developed. The Department of Isère is fully covered by mobile school support teams, which aim to strengthen the schooling of students with disabilities by providing expertise and resources to national education professionals. The Department also has two Autism Kindergarten Education Units (EMU) and an Autism Elementary School Education Unit (UEEA), which complement the opportunities for young children to attend school.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u40	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u41	Madam Secretary of State, you see a strong motivation on your part, which reflects your commitment. What you're saying is very good on paper, but on the ground, there's something else going on. Reorientation leads to the care of children for very limited periods of time. The rest of the day, the burden of the organization rests on the parents, which is not acceptable at all. In Isera, families are in deep distress. I can tell you that this is a matter of major concern. There is a need for much more resources and more EMI space.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u42	I call Mr André Chassaigne to speak on his question No 1608 on workshops and integration projects and on European funding.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u43	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration to the financing of workshops for integration under axis 3 of the national operational programme of the European Social Fund (ESF) during a period of covid-related health crisis. While confinements have led to a significant decline in activity, which has led to a decrease in revenue, partial unemployment aid artificially increased the amount of subsidies without allowing budgets to be rebalanced. For example, the Detours association, based in Cunlhat in Puy-de-Dôme, had to give up all the ESF payments for 2020. The loss is EUR 152000, of which EUR 52000 is to be repaid. The association's budget will thus be reduced by 10% of its revenues, which undermines the financial balance of the structure. While the ESF is the main financial instrument of the European Union in its public strategy for employment and social inclusion, and as such is an essential source of funding for the sector of integration through economic activity, many structures see their financial balance at risk and are at risk for their sustainability. These short-term problems are in addition to the structural difficulties: delays in obtaining and paying ESF grants, the burden on the files to be compiled, and the excessive rigour of the controls exercised by the management services. It even appears that it is a French specificity. It is essential that ESF programming 2021-2027 can at last be accompanied by a real reduction in procedures, which today discourage many players, particularly in the field of integration, and which lead to under-consumption of the Fund's appropriations in our country. What solution are you going to bring to the blockage of ESF subsidies due to the health crisis? If none is found, what compensatory measures will be implemented? Finally, more broadly, what concrete developments does France intend to encourage in order to facilitate the management of the ESF?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u44	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u45	I thank you for this question concerning the financing of workshops and integration projects by the ESF. This is an opportunity for me to come back to the operation of this fund, to the situation of the Detours association and also to mention my actions in this area. European funds can only be mobilised to reimburse the expenditure actually incurred by the recipient structures. However, the partial activity was taken over by the State. Moreover, these structures have been able to count on a Europe that protects, with the increase in European funds linked to the initiative to support the recovery in favour of cohesion and the territories of Europe (REACT-EU): 55 billion have been deployed as close as possible to the territories to support the recovery. With regard to the blockages encountered by the Detours association, it should be stressed that the ESF does not depend directly on the State but on the departmental council, which has the management of it. The Conseil départemental du Puy-de-Dôme has in fact put in place specific compensatory measures for workshops and integration projects, in particular thanks to the REACT-EU fund. It seems that the association Détours has not yet finalized its file in order to be able to benefit from it. As a pragmatic local elected representative, I was able to see the major contribution of the ESF to integration, but also the real difficulties, it must be said, in order to gain access to it. That is why I wanted to simplify its operation as soon as I arrived at the department. We have achieved this by setting up a state advance fund for the new programming to reduce the payment period for structures, by facilitating recourse procedures through dematerialisation, by allowing the voluntary territories which were previously white areas of the ESF to benefit from it and finally by defining with the networks a scope of expenditure co-financed by the ESF in favour of integration projects. In this way, I wanted to increase the attractiveness of these funds for integration structures. I will of course remain at your disposal, Mr President Chassaigne, if you would like more details.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u46	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u47	I thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for this precise answer, and I hope that the efforts to improve the management of ESF funds in France will be carried out. In terms of European financing, France seems to be the most difficult country. The red tape is such that some structures have given up filing files. I can give you another example, that of the local mission of Livradois-Forez, which I have presided over for many years, which has reached the point of giving up a grant of 13000 euros! The mass of evidence requested is a complete disincentive to actors in the field. Relief of procedures must be a priority, as you yourself pointed out. I hope that efforts in this direction will be made in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u48	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1602, on the continuing difficulties in setting up low-emission zones.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u49	My question, addressed to the Minister responsible for transportation, is about the regulatory inaccuracies that persist around the establishment of low-emission zones (LEZs) and the challenges they pose to communities. Toulouse Métropole plans to establish its own ZFE in an imminent manner. It covers three quarters of the commune, including the western ring road, internal to the city, as well as a small part of Colomiers and Tournefeuille, a total perimeter of 72 square kilometres. Furthermore, the restrictions on movement in this EFA are provided for 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. The Mobility Orientation Act (LOM) of December 2019 makes it clear that the local authorities involved in the establishment of a ZFE have full freedom in the definition of traffic restrictions, and we note that some cities have adopted transitional measures that are more progressive than others. In Paris, which concentrates a very high level of pollution, the ban on polluting vehicles in the ZFE applies only on weekdays and from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; In addition, collecting vehicles benefit from a derogation, which is also the case in Grenoble – a particularly polluted city – or in Strasbourg, where the Eurométropole has also introduced a device allowing users who do not have an approved vehicle to access the ZFE, on a case-by-case basis, in case of need. The free appreciation of local authorities thus generates a wide range of interpretations, which makes it difficult for municipalities to know their prerogatives and sometimes compromises the social acceptance of these areas. There are many questions about their perimeter, target vehicles, days and hours of exclusion. The law enforcement decree LOM, announced last September, has not, to my knowledge, yet been published. Could you tell us the date of publication envisaged for this decree and inform us about its content? What would be your recommendations to local decision-makers on how to apply the text, so that the EFAs are created in metropolitan areas in a progressive, measured and socially accepted way?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u50	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u51	Mr Lagleize, you are asking the minister responsible for transport, Jean-Baptiste Djebari: he, being absent, asked me to answer you. EFAs are a hand-held tool for communities to improve the quality of air that our fellow citizens breathe. It is therefore these communities that define their scope, criteria and deadlines. The stages of consultation and information provided for in the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities are intended to enable the constraints of economic actors and local populations to be taken into account, for example by adapting, as you have said, the time limits. LOM has made it mandatory to establish an EFA before 31 December 2020 in territories where air quality standards are not regularly met. A decree of 16 September 2020 specified the detailed rules for the application of these provisions, which concerned about ten metropolises, including Toulouse. Since then, the Act of 22 August 2021 on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects has provided a minimum basis for the movement restriction scheme to be applied in these areas; It also requires the creation of an EFA before 31 December 2024 in metropolitan agglomerations with more than 150000 inhabitants. A decree will soon define the transitional arrangements applicable to metropolises that had not yet satisfied the LOM when the law "climate and resilience" was published. The State shall make available to the territorial authorities statistics on the distribution of the fleet of cars using Crit'Air vignettes, enabling them to define an ambitious, but realistic, and socially acceptable traffic restriction path, in order to ensure that air quality standards are met in the shortest possible time. It also continues to support territories that want or need to create an EFA: twenty-three territories, invested in a feasibility approach to the development of an EFA, receive regular attention, follow-up and specific animation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u52	Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo has the floor to raise her question, No. 1638, concerning tuk-tuk havres.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u53	Like a number of other major French cities, Le Havre sees the tuk-tuk flourish, these light transport vehicles. Since last June, the very young Havre company T'tuktuk?, launched by Alban Collet and with a dozen electric vehicles, proposes to make discover the city, from the detailed routes by a Havre speaking guide, to the many tourists or residents wishing to see the ocean city in another light. Much appreciated by both, however, this innovative project is affected by a legal vacuum. This activity is considered to involve two- or three-wheel motor vehicles (VMDTR) and must therefore comply with the relevant regulations. But a tuk-tuk is not quite a taxi-moto, and we are not dealing with a simple transport of people but with tourist rides. The regulations applied to tuk-tuks in France are therefore inadequate for the services offered. I would also like you to tell me what rapid measures you are considering so that this tourist activity can resume legally.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u54	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u55	Madam Member, the Minister responsible for transport has instructed me to reply to you. Even with tourist comments, the transport of people by vehicles commonly referred to as tuk -tuk is well covered by the rules of private public transport of persons. At the regulatory level, these activities are therefore subject to the provisions of articles R. 3123-1 to R. 3123-5 of the Transport Code. This precise legal framework meets two main requirements: on the one hand, to ensure the safety of passengers and other road users; on the other hand, to ensure a balanced level of competition between operators. This is why drivers of these VMDTRs must have a business card, operations enter as part of the pre-booking and vehicles must comply with the signage defined by the transport code. At this stage, the Government is not considering changing these rules, which are adapted to the issues raised at the moment – security and balance of competition. In order to prevent any difference in treatment, they have been reminded of the prefects, who will ensure their proper application throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u56	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor to put his question, No. 1609, concerning MaPrimeRénov'.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u57	Madam Minister Delegate, I would like to draw your attention to the delays in the processing of MaPrimeRénov' files by the National Habitat Agency (ANAH) in Seine-Saint-Denis, which I have been alerted to by both residents and professionals. Since its launch in January 2020, this excellent facility has prompted many households to undertake energy renovations. In my department, the payment of aid, I repeat, has sometimes fallen behind. However, at first glance, the scheme seems clear and accessible: it is enough to create an account on www.maprirerenov.gouv.fr, to provide information on its income, its housing, to detail the work envisaged and to transmit the estimate of the chosen craftsman. As soon as the final application is completed, the ANAH shall carry out its verification. If deemed admissible, a notification confirming the award of the premium and its amount shall be sent. The grant is then paid at the end of the work, after the invoice has been sent. In fact, many households have been waiting for payment for several months, while the announced deadline is no more than two months. These delays, due to coucacs and other bugs that have blocked the files, have serious consequences for companies in the energy renovation sector, as well as for local artisans and the beneficiaries themselves. In addition, they discourage precarious households from undertaking necessary renovation operations. Other individuals regret the lack of explanations and visibility regarding the date of payment; they complain about the complexity of the procedure and the fact that the amount of the premium is sometimes reviewed after the validation of the file; They lack contacts to get the necessary information, report significant wait times during calls, and some opacity of the platform. I would therefore like to know what actions the Government intends to take to remedy these malfunctions and to speed up the processing of MaPrimeRenov' cases in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u58	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u59	As you said: since its launch in 2020, the MaPrimeRenov' device has been an unquestionable success. The French are at the rendezvous of energy renovation, and we can be proud of it. In 2021, nearly 760,000 cases were filed, almost 660,000 committed, for a considerable amount – more than 2 billion euros –; 99% of the complete files are processed for engagement within 15 working days; 60 % are paid within the same time limit, while taking into account targeted controls to combat fraud. The results of the satisfaction surveys are significant: 87% of the beneficiaries are satisfied with the scheme, 92% of the aid received, and 71% would not have undertaken any work without MaPrimeRenov'. However, you are right to point out that in Seine-Saint-Denis, as in other departments, computer bugs and the importance of demand may have caused significant delays in processing. This is a problem that I identified a few months ago, in connection with ANAH, and which we are working to resolve with the utmost determination. I therefore asked ANAH – who created a team for this purpose – to regularize these files as quickly as possible, some of which have been waiting for months, blocked due to a technical problem on the platform, or requiring individualised treatment due to training difficulties. At the end of 2021, the files concerned accounted for about 0.5% of the files filed, compared with 12% in February, i.e. their proportion fell sharply; In addition, at the end of 2021, the team was strengthened, so that half of the files still outstanding in December could be released at the beginning of the year, and the bonuses finally paid to households, which are systematically informed by telephone or email. The objectives of the ANAH were to complete the processing of this stock in January and, above all, to maintain the special processing of such files, with appropriate communication to households, as well as bug management that will prevent the case from reoccurring. As you can see, we are attentive to the massage of the device, but also to the treatment of special cases; Indeed, a blocked file makes it difficult for both the household, which does not receive its premium, and the company, which is not paid. Fortunately, I repeat, their stock is actually in the process of resorption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u60	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u61	I wanted to thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for your detailed and reassuring answer. We will thus improve a device whose usefulness and effectiveness are no longer to be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u62	The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Buchou to put his question, No. 1613, on the lack of housing in Vendée.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u63	My question concerns the thorny problem of housing in Vendée, particularly in the coastal Vendée. The construction is doing well, very well, especially in the communes of the coastal band, which make up the bulk of my constituency; In return for the combined effects of a substantial tourist activity, the installation of many new pensioners and the desire for space created by the confinements of young active workers for whom teleworking is a viable option, the land pressure becomes intolerable to the most modest employees. Younger people, especially those who enter the world of work, do not find accommodation, even for rent. Many companies see their development plans stalled because of a lack of ability to hire. Believe me, I'm being questioned about this during every field visit! Not only can social housing absorb growing demand, but this dynamic of private construction, whether individual or collective, makes it impossible for municipalities to set up a sufficient number of social housing units to increase their proportion and thus reduce the gap with the 20% target imposed by law. At most they can hope to maintain the proportion already reached. In 2021, in the Pays de Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie, for 1286 social housing units, all occupied, more than 700 applications were pending; At the end of 2021, the department had a total of 14,000 applications. The waiting period is 16 months on average and 22 months in the Sables d'Olonne agglomeration. At the same time, the rate of secondary residences is 40% in the same agglomeration and 67% on the island of Noirmoutier! In an attempt to reorient secondary residences or vacant housing to the supply of housing throughout the year, the Sables d'Olonne agglomeration is embarking on a tax policy: annual tax on vacant housing, which first requires recognition by the state as a tense sector – demand is in progress – and an increase in the housing tax for secondary residences. Other seaside resorts could follow suit. For my part, I am not convinced that this is an efficient and sustainable habitat policy. The expected effects of these fees will remain marginal; They can be, at best, only one of the instruments of a wider range. Deputy Minister, this problem is a major issue for the future of our territory. Can we imagine global tools that reduce the land pressure, for the well-being of the inhabitants, in a territory that is both highly sought after and very constrained by the consequences of climate change as well as by the objective of reducing the net artificialisation of the soil to zero?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u64	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u65	You call my attention, Mr President, to the difficulties in accessing social housing and housing in general in Vendée. I was made aware of this issue for having discussed it with the elected officials, when I visited this department several months ago. All are mobilized to ensure that the problem of access to housing does not turn into a bottleneck that would undermine the very strong attractiveness of the Vendée. In 2021, 962 new social housing units were approved in the department, which corresponds to 99% of the target set. This demonstrates a very good performance, an ability to resume an ambitious path of social housing production and a strong mobilization of donors, especially large groups. This mobilisation could continue in 2022, since the State's resources for the approval of social housing will be maintained and the amount of aid to the stone will still be substantially increased in the framework of the agreement concluded between the State and Housing Action at the beginning of 2021. Social housing is one of the solutions to meet the tension on the housing market in Vendée and, even if it is not the only one, this solution is now fully mobilized. Another important response is the provision of building land. This remains a determining factor – especially, as you pointed out, in the coastal area. The aim here is to fully mobilise the public land establishment in Vendée, which is ready for the most ambitious land policies possible, with the aim of creating land reserves and then allocating them to real estate construction projects. However, it is necessary for municipalities to be able to issue building permits for housing, whether they are social or not – a point that has been a very limiting factor at the national level in 2020 and even in 2021. That is why, following the work of the commission chaired by François Rebsamen on the revival of construction and in response to your desire for a more comprehensive response, the Government has put in place incentive mechanisms for the communities to guarantee them new revenues in proportion to the housing created. Social housing thus benefits from the full compensation of the ten-year exemption from property tax, and a similar mechanism is provided for intermediate housing. Communities, municipalities and intercommunalities will also have the opportunity to sign housing renewal contracts with the State, through which aid will be granted to all authorized collective housing units. These new measures are additional tools that will support the building effort of communities, while respecting our objectives of reducing soil artificialization. It is the whole of this panel of tools that we must mobilize to promote construction, regain land rights of way and allow communities to finance the balance of projects and the equipment that must accompany them. I trust in our ability to achieve our goals through the mobilisation of all these tools, including in Vendée.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u66	Mr Stéphane Buchou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u67	Thank you for your answers, Madam Deputy Minister. Nevertheless, the issue of vacant housing and secondary residences is a real one. I invite you to come to Vendée, in the coastal strip, to meet the elected officials and business leaders, with whom I exchange regularly and for whom this is a real problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u68	I call Mrs Lasserre to speak on her question No 1601 on the need for better financing of the renovation of the existing building.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u69	The Act of 22 August 2021 on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects set a national target of "zero net artificialisation" by 2050. The artificialization of soils increases travel times, removes jobs and public services, and makes our city centres lose their attractiveness. Above all, it reduces natural and agricultural spaces, increases the vulnerability of our territories to natural disasters such as the one we suffered last month, and destroys biodiversity. I am therefore proud of this collective progress which will prevent the artificialization of thousands of hectares of natural, agricultural or forest areas as it disappears every year. The protection of our land, however, must not be at the expense of the capacity of citizens to live. We are aware of the difficulties faced by an increasing number of French citizens in finding decent housing at a reasonable price. You know that, Madam Minister Delegate: this problem is particularly pressing in the Basque Country, which is experiencing an unprecedented housing crisis. In order to deal with this situation, there is a range of tools on which we have had the opportunity to examine the 3DS bill – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action: rent capping, real solidarity lease (BRS) and taxation of secondary residences, to name but a few. There is another simple lever, which allows our territories to have new housing without artificializing their soils. It is the renovation of existing, old and abandoned real estate, the rehabilitation of unsanitary residences and the requalification of abandoned wastelands. Of course, the renovation of a barn to transform it into housing is often more expensive than new construction. But we can no longer afford to have the objectives both to divide the pace of artificialisation of the soil in the coming decade and to concretely produce housing solutions. This is all the less possible because we will have to house more and more people on a planet which, for its part, cannot change in size according to our good will. It is therefore necessary at all costs to use our existing, unsanitary, old and non-usable building to recycle it into dwellings. The massive mobilization of the State is necessary because, to renovate rather than artificialize, it will require funding. Without this, we will not be able to meet the goal of reducing the artificialization that we have set ourselves. We have already made great strides in the right direction with energy renewal, the recovery plan and calls for projects, but more needs to be done. Madam Minister Delegate, what measures are the Government planning to finance these renovations, so that the pace of artificialisation can be halved over the next ten years?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u70	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u71	As you pointed out, MP: the climate and resilience law sets the goal of achieving "zero net artificialization" in 2050. This law sets out a very gradual path of dividing by two the rate of consumption of natural and agricultural land over the next ten years, and then continuing this effort until the final objective is achieved. This is an objective on which we will work with local authorities in a highly territorialized approach – the Prime Minister has had the opportunity to remind him in a recent circular to the Prefects – so that the artificialization, which decreases in a global way, does so at a rate differentiated according to the situation and the needs of the territories. The fight against the artificialisation of the soil must be accompanied by a proactive policy in favour of housing development, in order to meet the needs of our citizens. My regular discussions with the elected representatives, especially from the Basque Country, allow me to measure the sensitivity of the subject in this territory as elsewhere. We therefore accompany our policy with an effort on the existing building, first with the "Affordable Rent" tax scheme, whose aim is to convince owners to rent existing property through improved tax profitability when rents are below market prices; It's a way of fighting land speculation. In Bill 3DS, we also provided for the extension of the experiment on the supervision of rents and the possibility, for new local authorities who wish to do so, of running for office. You are right to point out, honourable Member, that the renovation of the existing one is absolutely essential. Our support for this approach is through the Action coeur de ville and Small Cities of tomorrow programmes, which allow to concentrate funding, in particular from the Caisse des dépôts and Action logement, on renovation. The fund for the recycling of wasteland also allows the creation of an additional 100,000 housing units in old wasteland, through two successive calls for projects, in which nearly 1100 operations have been validated. This fund, which reached €650 million in 2021, was sustained in 2022; A first package of EUR 100 million was announced last Saturday by the Prime Minister. Finally, we should mention the general renovation effort, carried out in particular in the framework of programmes, specific to ANAH, to requalify city centres and to renovate housing, including insanitary housing. As for MaPrimeRénov', this broader aid is now open not only to the landlords but also to the landlords. Some provisions are still under discussion in the context of Bill 3DS, which I hope will be the subject of a concluding MPC (Joint Joint Committee). All in all, all these measures are at the service of a housing policy that does not oppose the preservation of natural and agricultural land and the development of housing, which aims to meet the needs of our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u72	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u73	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u74	The next item is the question by Mr Vincent Rolland, No. 1624, concerning the attractiveness of the medical and social sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u75	Madam Minister responsible for autonomy, I would like to ask you about the situation of professionals in the social and medico-social sector. The sector is currently undergoing a serious and deep crisis, particularly private associations. As far as the public sector is concerned, an index salary supplement of 183 euros net per month has been granted, and the salary scale has been revised and corrected for the health-care staff, within the framework of the Segur de la santé. Some departments, such as Savoy, have implemented this increase as early as last spring. The majority of staff in private associations are excluded from these measures, while their mission is to the same people. The Prime Minister's announcement at the beginning of November that this €183 supplement would benefit healthcare workers and medical-psychological assistants in institutions in the disability sector, regardless of the competent authority, is a partial but insufficient response. What does the Government intend to do to put an end to this injustice and to ensure that equal pay is paid for equal work? More generally, for both the public and the private sector, the issue of remuneration is at the heart of the attractiveness deficit of these professions. We are currently seeing unprecedented situations, structures having to close for a few days, because of the lack of professionals available, forcing families to take care of their relatives at home under obviously very complicated conditions. That is why, after the urgency of salary revalorisation, there is also an urgent need to act so that, in a few months or a few years, we have trained enough staff to meet the needs. With this in mind, I would also like to know what measures the Government intends to take to encourage future caregivers to enrol in the medical and social training courses now.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u76	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u77	Mr. Deputy, the Government has made strong commitments to ensure full recognition of all personnel, both public and private. The recognition of health care providers has given priority to the introduction of an indexary supplement of €183 net for health care staff and EHPADs. The measure was extended in 2021 by the signing of three method agreements, as part of the mission entrusted to Michel Lafourcade. These measures have been taken up by article 42 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2022, which also extends, at the initiative of the Government, the basic measure to health-care workers, social workers, medical-psychological and educational and social support workers, who work in these establishments and in the services accompanying persons with disabilities, financed by departmental councils, autonomous day-care centres and autonomous residences. The entry into force of the measure was advanced for the private sector as of November 1, 2021. As far as the non-profit sector is concerned, these provisions have already been transposed into treaty texts, signed by the Government in early January. The home help sector is not left behind, with the addition of 43 allowing for a historical increase in earnings from 13 to 15 per cent. Structures which do not fall under this collective agreement can nevertheless benefit from a base rate of 22 euros, which was their main claim, as well as from the quality allocation, which will raise the hour price by 3 euros. These are additional means to enable them to raise the salary of their staff. To meet the recruitment needs you mentioned, this year we have increased the number of places in the training of caregivers, nurses, educational and social accompaniment; A partnership between Pôle Emploi, the ARS and the regions allows jobseekers to be directed towards these jobs which have been in tension for a very long time. Finally, the Prime Minister announced the holding of a social conference dedicated to the other professional categories that you refer to, which mainly include social workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u78	The next speaker is Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Huissier, to put his question, No. 1633, concerning the Segur premium in the health and medico-social sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u79	The question I'm going to ask you is a bit of the same vein as the previous one. On this occasion, I would like to pay tribute to all the caregivers and staff of EHPAD, centres for disabled people and hospitals – in Lozère, we have 49 centres for people with disabilities and 27 EHPADs. The Ségur de la santé was a good initiative but today raises a number of questions, including membership in a particular institution, or status – depending on whether staff are members of the territorial civil service, the hospital civil service, collective agreements 51 or 66, the health or medical-social sector, whether they are caregivers, nurses, nurses, educators, specialized educators, educators, administrative staff, technical staff, social workers. Today, government announcements and the allocation of credits create distortions between institutions and disparities between employees. This also applies to local hospitals. I would therefore like a clarification on the distribution of appropriations between these structures, whether state aid or departmental allocations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u80	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u81	First of all, I would like to point out that the Ségur de la santé was a priority for health workers whose national solidarity wanted to raise their salaries. Then came the sector of medico-social and social accompaniment, which legitimately claimed the same revalorisations. Some EUR 10 billion is already being spent on upgrading the remuneration of nearly 2 million professionals: I think we haven't known such a big plan in a very long time. We wanted to act quickly, making in the summer of 2020 a first substantial gesture, to the benefit of first healthcare providers, hospital or EHPAD, by making a commitment to a gradual extension to other professional categories. This was the subject of the Lafourcade mission, which resulted in three successive method agreements and revalorizations that took place until January 1st. Everyone in this House has acknowledged that this is a step forward. However, at the technical level, we are confronted with the huge breakdown of collective agreements governing the health and medical-social sector, the fruit of a century of history. We therefore commissioned the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs (IGAS) to see to what extent some rapprochements could be made. We have had to carry out these gradual extensions rather than act as a whole, since these various occupational categories belong to different employers. Even when the State is an employer, it can do nothing without consultation with the other main players in the financing – departments for social workers, for example. This is almost within the scope of contractual relations between employees and their employers. The Prime Minister and the President of the Republic have therefore announced the holding, at the end of the IGAS mission, of a social conference which will have the task of flattening everything and to see how the remuneration of all these staff can be gradually revalued, in consultation of course with their main employers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u82	Mr Pierre Morel - À- L'Hussier.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u83	My question was precisely about the need to flatten the complexity of the statutes and the relations between the directors of the establishment, the presidents of the board of directors and the employees. This clarification work is now necessary if answers are to be provided.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u84	Mr Stéphane Peu, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1607, concerning hospital officials in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u85	On the basis of a parliamentary report that was unanimous among us two years ago, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe had come to the Seine-Saint-Denis to announce the plan "A strong State in the Seine-Saint-Denis", built on these three pillars of a regal policy of police, justice and education. In these three areas in fact, this report shows to what extent, in terms of public service personnel, the Seine-Saint-Denis is the victim of republican injustice, not only because of an inequitable distribution but also because of an incessant turnover. Among other measures provided for in this plan, education, police and justice personnel remaining in the department for five years will be entitled to a retention bonus of 10000 euros. It is still too early to assess precisely the consequences of this measure, but according to administrative directorates and staff representatives, it has already produced positive effects: transfer requests have been reduced by 20 per cent in national education, and police unions believe that it has improved attractiveness and, again, curbed transfer requests. The balance thus achieved between experienced and more novice civil servants is the guarantee of a better public service. However, during the preparation of the report published in 2018, the choice had been made, because of an already considerable amount of work, to concentrate on the three legitimate missions of police, justice and education and not to address the health sector – this choice had been the subject of debate at the time. Since then, the health crisis has taken place, the problems have been enormous everywhere in France and in the Seine-Saint-Denis department in particular, which has experienced the highest mortality rate due to covid-19 and has suffered from a number of resuscitation beds per capita three times less than that of the neighbouring departments of Hauts-de-Seine and Val-de-Marne. The crisis in the public hospital is probably stronger than anywhere else, even if it is acute throughout France. Hospital staff therefore live as an injustice this impasse which means that the public hospital has not been taken into account in the same way as the aforementioned regalian missions when drawing up the plan "The stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis". The representatives of employees or hospital staff, as well as those of hospital management, agree that this measure, without being the key to all problems, would be a positive element of loyalty. I asked the Prime Minister, who suggested that the door was not closed to an evolution of the device. Next week, the prefect of the department will take stock of the plan "The stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis", and the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will put this topic on the agenda of the government's control week, early February. We would therefore like to hear your views and ask you about the possibility of including in the scope of this plan, which represents a major commitment of the Government, the staff of the hospital civil service, so that it also benefits from the retention bonus.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u86	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u87	Since 1 October 2020, the Government has decided to introduce, on the basis of, as you have recalled, recommendations from a parliamentary report, a territorial loyalty premium of 10000 euros, paid after five years of effective service in the Seine-Saint-Denis department and intended for the bodies of the State civil service which you have cited. It is intended to remedy the problem of the retention of human resources, a problem which I also see in other areas and which called for a specific response for the continuity of the State's action in this department. However, this premium is not intended to be extended to the hospital civil service, for which specific arrangements already exist: in the first place, the incentive premium, from 470 to 940 euros per year according to the remuneration of the official, aims to strengthen the attractiveness of health, social and medical-social establishments in the territories in tension, including the Seine-Saint-Denis; Secondly, the recruitment premium, a more specialized scheme for rehabilitation posts, is intended to reward staff who undertake to practise in territories where there is a risk of weakening the supply of care. This premium, with a total value of EUR 9000, is paid in three equal fractions at the end of each commitment year for three years. By decision of the Directorate-General of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) of Île-de-France, establishments in the Seine-Saint-Denis can benefit from this second scheme. As the Prime Minister has told you, the door remains open to other developments because of the particularly pressing needs of your department. The Government is thus fully invested with you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u88	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor to put his question, No. 1636, on the situation of suspended caregivers. On September 15th, the vaccination obligation of caregivers came into effect. Since then, more than 15,000 caregivers, we are told, have been suspended for lack of vaccination, as we are going through an unprecedented crisis in the public hospital, for which you have a share of responsibility. I had the opportunity to receive in my permanence, in Vauvert in the Gard, some of them, who were practising at the university hospital centres (CHU) of Nîmes or Alès. All spoke of the way in which they experienced the health crisis, in their flesh, with a total mobilization and investment in the service of the population, despite the unworthy conditions in which they had to face the pandemic from the outset: lack of masks, gel, blouses. They all remember how they felt when the applause sounded at twenty o'clock in the hospital itself. But now everyone remembers how they were notified of their suspension by a security guard, at the turn of a corridor, in full service, in ingratitude and humiliation, finding themselves on the straw and unable to support themselves and their families. As a first step, I would like you to take stock of the suspensions that have taken place both at national and departmental level – in the case of the Gard – as long as I encounter the greatest difficulties in obtaining precise figures. I would also like to know exactly how many personnel have resigned, who have been laid off or who are on sick leave and who do not even seem to be compensated for some of them, as well as the number of those who have been dismissed for quitting – in short, the number of those whose lives have been destroyed. We all now understand that existing vaccines do not have the expected effectiveness: none prevent the spread of the virus or ensure full protection against serious forms of the disease. Vaccinated caregivers can therefore transmit the virus to their patients or be themselves infected with the virus. Only the negative test would offer a guarantee: however, healthcare workers are no longer tested. Worse, some hospital wards call for positive – and therefore contagious – tested staff to come to work; Similarly, unvaccinated liberal professionals are prevented from conducting teleconsultations or finding a replacement. We're walking on the head! The penalty, the penalty, the penalty! Everyone understands that it is no longer a matter of fighting the virus, but rather of pissing off the French! However, it is a question of deprogramming, of urgent and delayed vital interventions and of the saturation of hospital services. My second question is therefore simple: in the name of science, rationality, common sense of health and above all in the name of what we owe them, what are you waiting for to allow caregivers who are not vaccinated to return to work?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u89	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u90	[[Mr Nicolas Meizonnet exclaimed]] I can prove to you every day the effectiveness of vaccination. If you came with me to EHPADs, hospitals or resuscitation centres, you would find that the unvaccinated pay a heavy price in this fifth wave and you would be convinced. The principle of the vaccination obligation of health-care workers has been adopted by Parliament and is enshrined in the Act of 5 August 2021. Surveys have been carried out since last September in order to measure precisely the adherence to this obligation, and I can testify to a huge mobilisation of staff, very proud to have been vaccinated to accompany the patients for whom they are responsible and responsible: more than 94% of the employees and agents currently justify a complete two-dose vaccination scheme, not to mention the professionals concerned by a certificate of recovery of covid -19 or of contraindication to vaccination. In November, only 0.6 per cent of the professionals involved in the vaccination obligation were suspended. The latest investigations have shown that many suspensions have been gradually lifted as a result, in two out of three situations, of adherence to this obligation. Throughout the investigations conducted, the number of agents able to provide evidence of vaccination has steadily increased; The suspension rates have even declined quite sharply. The impact of the vaccination obligation has therefore remained very moderate according to the establishments – and that is so much better. The total number of suspensions at the CHU in Alès is eight, while the total number of suspensions at Nîmes is thirty-four, i.e. in both cases less than 0.5% of the staff. It is thus less than one person for 200 caregivers and, fortunately, these figures have been falling steadily in these two institutions since last October. In addition, there is a dialogue between the management of the establishments and staff who do not comply with the vaccination obligation, in order to accompany them on their vaccination journey. However, in accordance with the law that has been passed in this House, we will not lift the measures in force for a simple reason: we expect caregivers to be vaccinated, both to protect themselves and to protect their patients. Because, yes, the vaccine drastically reduces the proportion of people affected, their contagiosity, the development of the disease and it strengthens our ability to fight the virus, no matter what you think.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u91	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor to put her question, No. 1610, on psychiatric pathologies in EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u92	My question concerns the detection and management of residents with psychiatric and neurodegenerative pathologies in EHPADs, where these pathologies are expected to become increasingly prevalent in the years to come. Indeed, while it was estimated in 2015 that 40 million people around the world were suffering from Alzheimer's disease, 135 million people are expected to be affected by 2050. Unfortunately, France will not escape the increase in these diseases, whose example I have just mentioned concerns only one of the neurodegenerative diseases currently known. That is why it is important to develop protocols to detect and provide active support to EHPAD residents who suffer from these diseases early, if we do not want to accelerate their dependence even further. However, it appears that these protocols are not known to all the directorates of EHPAD in France, which does not favour a personalized follow-up of the residents concerned, who are in situations of great fragility. The case of a woman in my constituency with psychosis and living in an EHPAD has profoundly affected me. Not being accommodated in an institution suitable for the management of her pathology, this resident contacted me to make her distress heard. After contacting the institution concerned and the regional health agency, I found it necessary for all EHPADs to have specific elements to detect and respond to these disorders. So, Madam Deputy Minister, can you tell us how staff in these institutions are trained to detect psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders and pathologies of residents, and whether specific protocols exist?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u93	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u94	Professors Jeandel and Guérin's report, which you may have consulted, points out that more than half of EHPAD residents – exactly 57% – have neurodegenerative disease, Alzheimer's disease for the vast majority of them. Psychiatric pathologies affect more than 15% of residents. Their detection and management is a major issue in EHPAD. In order to ensure the identification of these diseases, the roadmap on neurodegenerative diseases for 2021-2022 plans to improve the training of staff in EHPAD, but also the support of families during the announcement of the diagnosis and the follow-up of the residents concerned. With regard to the management of these diseases, the Social Security Financing Act for 2022 includes advances, with first of all the creation of EHPAD type "territorial resource centres": open to the outside world, they will make it possible to disseminate the expertise available in the territory between EHPAD and also to the home services with which they interact. For example, an EHPAD with expertise in the management of people with Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease will be able to organize training, sharing of best practices or peer exchanges. The missions of these so-called "resource centres" will be financed to the tune of €20 million in 2022, and the funding law provides for additional appropriations to deploy adapted activity and care centres (PASA) and reinforced accommodation units (UHR) in EHPAD. These provisions will ensure greater support for people suffering from these diseases and will also promote, in the continuity of the foundations of mental health chaired by the President of the Republic, the long-awaited strengthening of mobile psychiatry teams operating in EHPAD, which will benefit from an additional €5 million of funding. We are working on a roadmap between EHPAD and long-term care units (LDCUs) for the coming years, in order to draw several lines of action for better medicalization of EHPADs and to pay particular attention to these neurodegenerative diseases, the number of which continues to grow.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u95	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u96	I thank the Minister for these concrete elements on a very important health issue, which we must address today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u97	The next speaker is Mr Guillaume Vuilletet, to put his question, No. 1615, on "family holidays".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u98	On 23 October 2019, the Government launched the National Plan for Caregivers, with a budget of some €400 million over three years. This plan responds to a need: indeed, the 8 to 10 million of our citizens who attend and accompany people with disabilities or addictions on a daily basis often live in hell and are under considerable pressure. In January 2019, on the occasion of a trip to my constituency, in the community of communes Carnelle Pays-de-France, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe met with caregivers who told him of their suffering, their loneliness and their exhaustion. In its fourth priority, the Action for Caregivers plan aims to increase and diversify respite solutions: to accommodate caregivers and the person they accompany in places where they can "breathe." An amount of approximately EUR 100 million was foreseen for this purpose. This was necessary, and I understand that it is being implemented. What's the status of this? On the other hand, as oral questions without debate are also an opportunity for Members to talk about their territory, I would like to know whether funds for respite solutions can be used for site conversion. I am thinking in particular of the site of Saint-Martin-du-Tertre, which is part of the hospital group Carnelle Portes de l'Oise: we have been wondering about its operation for several years, and its reconversion is on the agenda. Projects are emerging in this area. Can the funds under the Action Plan for Caregivers, if they are still available, accompany his retraining – which would also allow his staff to pursue a career in the field where he has always worked? It would be a harmonious transformation for the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u99	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u100	Your question allows me to pay tribute to caregivers, whether they are wage earners or they accompany a loved one, as we know that their daily lives are often difficult. Caregiver support is the essential corollary of a home care policy: if we fail to help caregivers better – what we do – our home care efforts will be useless. The families' respite villages, to which you refer, offer the caregivers and the person they accompany with respite solutions and holiday stays – moments where one can "breathe" – thanks to a differentiated offer, both tourist and medico-social. Funding is provided for the development of a respite offer incorporating such stays, amounting to €35.55 million, out of a sustainable allocation of €52.55 million. They are part of the Action for Caregivers strategy and have been delegated to the Regional Health Agencies (RHAs). An additional EUR 10 million has been voted for this purpose in the Social Security Financing Act and will be delegated this year. In particular, these long-term appropriations will allow the development of projects such as the one you refer to, in favour of respite for the helpers. With regard to the project in particular, in Val-d'Oise, a proposal will have to reach the competent authorities of the territory, namely the ARS and the departmental council: a joint authorisation from them is indeed necessary in order to create medico-social places of temporary accommodation. The development of this type of project in a territory is subject to a needs and local population analysis, carried out jointly by the ARS and the department; They must also reflect on the relevant economic model in a concerted manner. Note that the offer of respite is subject to seasonality, and that the rest for users can be very high. It is therefore necessary to ensure that these projects are sustainable, that the funds mobilized for them are sustainable, and that they are based on close collaboration with the tourism sector, with the support of medical and social health institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u101	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u102	Thank you for this precise information, which I will pass on to the interested parties. The mechanics you describe are not intuitive, as these projects are complex. However, there is no doubt about the usefulness of such establishments. We still have to combine good wills, and I have no doubt that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u103	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor to put his question, No. 1626, concerning Pressac's EHPAD.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u104	I would like to draw your attention to the EHPAD of Pressac, a small commune in my constituency. This establishment was the result of a call for proposals from the Regional Health Agency (ARS) and the Vienna Departmental Council, launched in 2013, covering 28 beds and with an optional second tranche, i.e. a total capacity of 56 beds. The Audacia association, selected by the ARS, has proposed a project of 28 places, three of which are eligible for social assistance for people with Alzheimer's disease, in partnership with the HLM office of Vienna, owner of the site. The first architectural project appropriately integrated, from the outset, the possibility of creating a second twenty-eight-seater. The collective spaces, the kitchen, the heating system and the premises of the professionals were designed for this purpose. The pathology unit, fourteen places out of the 28 initial places, was subsequently dedicated to Alzheimer's disease, in order to meet growing needs. This strategy has worked well, as EHPAD has reached a normal occupancy rate and provides high quality benefits that are recognized and valued by families and residents. It is now complete, and has a waiting list of eight people. However, every year it has a large financial deficit, due to its too small size: less 200000 euros in 2019, less 160000 euros in 2020, and probably less 250000 euros in 2021. The SRA has been asked on several occasions to remedy this worrying situation and to grant the 28 additional beds; However, it refused, arguing that there was no shortage of places for EHPAD in Vienna, and that all the means must now be devoted to keeping at home. However, the ARS admits that with only 28 places EHPAD is condemned in the short term. The location of the property, south of the Vienne department and close to the Charente and Haute-Vienne, makes it very attractive and suitable to meet a proven demand. It is essential to grant it the twenty-eight additional beds which were envisaged from the beginning in its second tranche. Whatever its history, there are only two possible outcomes for this EHPAD: either to bring it to fifty-six beds or to see it disappear – it would obviously be dramatic for the populations concerned, when it meets real needs and its functioning is unanimously considered exemplary. I can't expect this facility to disappear. I therefore appeal to your high authority, Madam Deputy Minister, to give the necessary instructions so that the twenty-eight places requested are granted to her, and that patients, families and staff are not left without a solution of proximity, in an area where needs are acute.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u105	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u106	The programming of places in EHPAD is a shared responsibility between the departmental council and the regional health agency. The situation you are referring to, which is also of concern to your fellow Members from Vienna, is identified by these charging and control authorities. On February 27, 2014, the ARS of New Aquitaine and the departmental council issued a joint decree creating a twenty-eight-seat EHPAD. Subsequently, they found an uncoordinated change in plans from those submitted by the facility manager. They therefore indicated to the latter that an increase in EHPAD places could not be undertaken, given the already favourable level of equipment in Vienna, and in particular in this canton. If the association's consolidated profit and loss account – which manages two other EHPADs – shows a sound financial situation, the results of the institution we are dealing with are in deficit in terms of dependency and care over the last two years, i.e. less EUR 49,903 in 2019 and less EUR 48,535 in 2020. Indeed, the price of the dependency day fixed by the department is in the low average. The subject remains circumscribed. In addition to the method used, the local situation does not call for the opening of 28 additional places, since the rate of equipment is 6 % higher than that of the region, and that in this canton almost 10 % of the places are available. Nevertheless, some prospects remain. Thus, a review of the institution's admission policy, with a view to hosting heavier profiles, would enable it to increase its capacity. The offer of services could also be diversified, as proposed since 2019: day reception, temporary accommodation and self-catering residences. Finally, a housing unit for ageing disabled people could be set up by call for projects, up to ten places – a needs study is under way in South Vienna, and the manager will be able to apply as soon as the call for projects is published. These elements open up territorial perspectives for the establishment, without calling into question our efforts in favour of the residential shift expected by our fellow citizens, in full coherence with the strengthening and increased medicalization of EHPADs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u107	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u108	Initially, this facility was not intended to accommodate dependents. Gradually, however, it became clear that the need for care for this population was a priority. Since home care is becoming longer and longer – which is desirable – people who enter institutions are very much dependent, and do not belong to a traditional home. The needs are growing, and we must respond to them; We must also not condemn this institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u109	The next speaker is Mrs Cécile Untermaier, who has raised her question, No. 1628, on criminal irresponsibility and place of hospitalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u110	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice to a complex case in which the perpetrator of a crime was declared criminally irresponsible for the first time and then for the second time as a result of a new crime. He had been released in the meantime, and this exit was fatal. His family is very worried, knowing that he suffers from a disease that leads him to kill "those he loves." She wished to know where he had been hospitalized ex officio, and to be assured that she would be informed of his possible exit. I wrote to the Minister of Justice about this, and I had a video conference with his services. The subject seems to me to warrant a legislative extension – this is the purpose of my question. Indeed, it is difficult to admit that in the event of criminal irresponsibility of an individual, his victims cannot be informed of the place where he is hospitalized – a decision of the Ministry of Health on which the Ministry of Justice has no decision. Although I defend criminal irresponsibility – everyone agrees: the madmen are not judged – it seems to me essential that the victims know where the person is hospitalized, and that they are associated with a possible exit decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u111	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u112	Your question is particularly sensitive, because it relates to the particular situation of an individual and his or her family. It is also sensitive because of the violence inherent in the pathology that you describe, a form of schizophrenia, its literally dramatic consequences and the bonds guarded by the members of this family. In these circumstances, I would like first of all to express my support for the family members you are referring to, who have been through these terrible trials. I understand their anxiety, their distress, their pain. I would like to assure them of our attention to their situation, despite the difficulties that this represents in terms of both the rule of law and the major debates that this issue may raise for the legislator. This family wishes to know the place of hospitalization and to be assured that they will be informed of the departure of the interned person. The law does provide for the information of the family by the prefect in the event of the removal of the measure of care under duress, within 24 hours of that decision. The family will therefore be warned if the measure of care for this person is lifted. The obligation to notify the patient's discharge is well provided for in the texts. However, I confirm to you that, as a matter of law, every patient must have his or her privacy respected and the confidentiality of information about him or her protected. As a matter of principle, therefore, a person's place of hospitalization cannot be disclosed. These general provisions apply to everyone, in particular to patients hospitalized in psychiatry, including in these circumstances. An evolution of the legislation in force would require in-depth work within this Chamber, and close consultation with all the actors concerned, in order to design a system that preserves both respect for the fundamental right of patients – medical secrecy – and the usefulness of a response in exceptional cases in the image of the latter. Despite all the difficulties that this situation presents for all parties, the law is clear in this matter, but the debate that you are raising has its full place in this House. Thank you for allowing me to remind you, while paying my sincere tribute to this suffering family.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u113	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u114	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for sending me this reply from the Minister of Justice. If I acknowledge his willingness to work on this issue, I would still like to raise the problematic aspects of his answer. It is thus difficult to oppose medical secrecy to the family, since it is not a question of divulging the pathology in its detail but simply of knowing the place of hospitalization of an individual whose criminal irresponsibility has been recognized. It's asking the family to show a lot of understanding! In my opinion, medical secrecy should not be opposed in this case. Criminal irresponsibility has been admitted, the Chamber of Investigation has rendered a judgment searchable by everyone. I therefore believe that it is necessary to move quickly on this point. Secondly, we need to consider a provision which, in fact, does not apply: the prefect's obligation to provide information within 24 hours. We will have to go further in criminal irresponsibility if we are to maintain this indispensable mechanism. Since this is a case of justice, the investigating chamber which has declared criminal responsibility to be irresponsibility should be able to return to the matter with the parties concerned in order to discuss the exit and the measures that can be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u115	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor to raise her question, No. 1618, on the protection of pollinating insects.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u116	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to ask you about the Order of 20 November 2021 on the protection of bees and other pollinating insects and the preservation of pollination services during the use of plant protection products. This "bees" order replaces the previous one dated 28 November 2003. It is essential to preserve bees that, because of their role as pollinators, provide countless services to crops and the environment. However, your order does not meet this requirement, while it creates inapplicable rules for our farmers. It thus provides for the inclusion of the term "bees" in the list of fungicides and herbicides, which would now be prohibited from use during flowering and exudate production periods. In addition to the distortion of competition that this new regulation would create vis-à-vis other Member States of the European Union and third countries, the protection of crops would be particularly vulnerable. This would reduce the competitiveness of French agricultural products. This would favour the production of countries with lower environmental standards, which would lead to significant income losses for our farmers when the agricultural world is already in crisis. In addition, the derogations provided for appear to be inapplicable. The reduced nighttime period during which the use of plant protection products is allowed is accompanied by numerous pitfalls. Night work thus imposed leads to safety problems for workers and will have unacceptable consequences for their family life. The spraying of plant protection products in the evening may also exacerbate neighbourhood conflicts and promote already difficult relations between the population and farmers. Instead of creating inapplicable and socially, environmentally and socially harmful standards, you should support research to enable us to find alternatives to those that are most harmful to the environment. Farmers only ask that they be given the opportunity to change their practices while maintaining the same level of yield, which is necessary for all of us to feed. However, it is clear that they are not being offered an alternative. How do you justify your inability to propose an alternative solution, a result of research, to ensure the necessary preservation of bees, which leads you to impose new standards at the expense of farmers' activity?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u117	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u118	I'm sorry to say that like that, honourable Member, but your question has quite a huge number of mistakes. First, contrary to what you claim, the decree "bees" does not impose night work: it was even the red line that I had resolutely drawn from the outset. Secondly, this decision is the result of a very broad consultation, because it is necessary to find a sometimes complicated balance between various interests. In fact, your intervention brings with it a staggering testimony: you start by standing up for the bees before concluding that everything we've done is good to throw in the trash. It is because the reality is complex that we have made provision for derogations to find the right balance. That is why we have adopted a pragmatic approach and defined the conditions of application for this decree. As for the family environment, it has been at the centre of my concerns and at the origin of my choice never to impose night work. This is not my vision of a society of progress! If your list does not correspond to the order made, you are right on two points which I would like to stress. First point: these debates on products used in agriculture must take place at European level; When they are dealt with at a national level, decisions taken lead to distortions of competition. I therefore decided to make it a priority objective of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The second point is the importance of research. In this regard, I would like to point out that we have invested heavily in this area, as few governments have done, in particular by taking advantage of the opportunities offered by new plans such as the France 2030 plan. Nevertheless, research can take a lot of time when it has to solve complicated problems – it is not the minister, but the agronomist who tells you. It is rightly said that in agriculture, we have the crop year to test a research. This only recital gives an idea of the time required. We need to make up for delays due to years of underinvestment in research, even though our institutes, whether public or private, are among the best in the world. I called "third agricultural revolution" the one that takes place around living and knowledge, and that passes through digital, agrorobotic, genetic, biocontrol. So three words summarize our action: pragmatism, balance, investments. The necessary transitions will not take place on injunctions but through investments, and that is why we are investing 2.4 billion euros in this agricultural revolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u119	I would like to respond, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u120	Your speaking time is exhausted, dear colleague: you know the rules and it seems to me that you are attached to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u121	Mr Didier Quentin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1620, concerning the difficulties of the oyster sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u122	Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, I would like to ask you three quick questions, but the implications are important for my constituency's maritime economy. The first concerns oyster farming. Following the question I asked you on Monday 8 November 2021, the Labour Inspectorate accepted the derogation requested by the oyster farmers in Charente-Maritime: to be able to work up to sixty hours between Monday 6 December and Sunday 12 December 2021, and even until sixty-six hours between Monday 13 December and Sunday 26 December. Four large companies had brought an application to the Poitiers Administrative Court for an exemption allowing them to work up to 72 hours per week during the last two weeks of December. Their request was rejected. In the future, it would be desirable to increase the maximum weekly working time from sixty-six to seventy-two hours for companies wishing to do so, as permitted by a provision of the Rural Code, provided that the total number of hours worked does not exceed sixty hours over twelve months. What measures do you intend to take, in agreement with the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration, to reopen negotiations on the collective agreement on oyster farming and to prevent these problems from resting at the end of the year? My second question concerns the consequences of the drastic 36% reduction in the quota for soles allocated to the port of Royan and the port of La Cotinière, located on the island of Oléron. This fishery represents more than a third of the catch for Royan, the reduction of the quota will result in at least 2 million euros of loss of turnover for this port. I have noted that Mrs. Annick Girardin, the Minister of the Sea, has just announced the introduction of a "temporary assisted stop" for sole fishermen. I would therefore be grateful if you could clarify the manner in which this provision is to be implemented, as well as the compensation measures the Government intends to take, in particular through the mobilisation of the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF). Let me turn to my third question: the project to create an offshore wind farm off the island of Oléron. With 80 to 120 wind turbines of 237 metres high, this park is likely to have a serious impact on the fishery resource and the accessibility of fishing areas. I wonder about the consistency of this project and the modernisation of the port of La Cotinière, which is being completed and cost some 60 million euros. As the public debate on this project is coming to an end, I would like to inform you that it arouses an almost general hostility. What will be the Government's position on this very sensitive subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u123	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u124	Let us begin with the first of your three questions, that of the working time of the oyster farmers, whom I visited a few months ago in this territory which I know very well; So I had a long discussion with them on the subject. As you recalled, the exemptions requested were granted in accordance with the commitment made by my department and our local teams. Of course, I will not comment on the decision of the Administrative Court. On the other hand, I would like to stress one point that you have not addressed: it is necessary to harmonise working time throughout the territory, because the rules can currently vary very significantly from one region to another. This harmonization is a priority for my Ministry and for the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Integration. We are determined to move forward on this subject, which can be complicated, as evidenced by the administrative tribunal's decision and its legal implications. In oyster farming, where the problem is recurring, farmers request and obtain the same derogations every year. You have to give them a readability. With Élisabeth Borne, I will continue to work on the harmonization of working time, taking into account the reality of the ground, particularly that of our oyster farmers. I know that my answer will not fully satisfy you, but that is the objective we have set ourselves. With regard to the quota of soles, the Minister of the Sea has instructed me to provide you with the following answers: you are right to point out that they are falling, as a result of the necessary adaptation to the European management plan adopted in 2019. This is why the State services have created a specific support mechanism. In particular, the Minister of the Sea has launched a plan to assist fishermen, which will be compensated for 70 % of the loss of turnover for the yards and 85 % for the rangers, subject to compliance with the detailed conditions by the ministry concerned. The objective is to assist all sole fishers, i.e. all those who have obtained a fishing authorisation and for whom sole accounts for a certain percentage of the total value of the catch. With regard to the wind farm, I do not have enough time to respond, but I have taken note of the point you raise and the need to take into account the activity of the fishermen concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u125	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor to put his question, No. 1622, on agriculture in Lotoise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u126	Mr. Minister of Agriculture and Food, you were on a trip to the Lot department a few months ago. On this occasion, you made clear commitments, which I would like to remind you, because promises are only valid if they are kept. The farmers in this department, where agriculture is essential, had called on you to launch an experimental plan to develop access to water and hill lakes. While a number of such projects existed in the Lot department, many could not succeed, particularly as a result of numerous administrative and sometimes judicial blockages. On that occasion, you announced that the department could experiment with new ways of accessing water and deploying colline lakes. It was a long month ago. We haven't received any news since then. However, the Lot, like the other departments of France, needs access to water. This is not a detail: this access is vital not only for agricultural production, but also for the advent of a more reasoned agriculture. It turns out that many projects, including colline lakes, are on track in the Lot. Many producers are awaiting an acceleration of administrative procedures. This requires instructions to be passed. We still hope that the Lot department will become a pilot in terms of access to water and irrigation, in particular to develop new productions, which are currently difficult in a territory like ours. Will this commitment be fulfilled, not in the months, but in the weeks to come – since you, like us, are coming to the end of the mission entrusted to us by our fellow citizens? Beyond this point, I would like to point out – but you certainly know – that the agricultural profession suffers from ills that are not dealt with in depth: the question of income, that of insurance in the face of calamities, which we will be debating tomorrow and which will require, more than a policy of small steps, a truly proactive action, and that of the unbearable agribashing suffered by producers, who are surely one of the most beautiful professions in the world and who are terribly affected by the current atmosphere.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u127	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u128	[[Mr. Aurélien Pradie protested]] Many of you are getting to know me. It seems to me that you are falling very badly with your question, honourable Member, because I can be criticized a lot, but not the one to fail to fulfil my commitments. I'm afraid you're actually in the position of the sprinkler. Several examples show this. You mentioned the need for ambitious crop insurance. The commission to assess this issue was held last week. You weren't there!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u129	I'll be in session tomorrow!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u130	You weren't there, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u131	I'm not part of this commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u132	I made a commitment to create this crop insurance. I kept the schedule announced.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u133	You're unbelievable! You don't know how the Assembly works!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u134	Then the Varenne of the water...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u135	Answer the water!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u136	That's what I'm doing, Congressman. Keep calm. Harvest insurance is one of the pillars of access to water. You mentioned it in your question. Secondly, while the first working group under the Varenne de l'eau dealt with crop insurance, the second topic concerned the adaptation of crops to climate change. Again, the commitment was fulfilled, as we announced the results on December 20th. The third group...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u137	I'm referring to the commitments you made on the water!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u138	That's what this is about, Mr. Member! Simply, the issue needs to be addressed in a coherent manner. All I'm talking about is water!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u139	Mr Pradie, please listen to the Minister's answer. You will have time to respond if you wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u140	The third theme was specifically on access to water resources. More than 800 people participated in this working group. You weren't there – never!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u141	If you'd invited me, I'd have been there!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u142	All the meetings were open, Congressman: not with me!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u143	You're amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u144	The conclusions of this third group will be delivered at the end of January. This work began in early May. You weren't there – never!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u145	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u146	The third point: you explain that farmers suffer and that the law of 30 October 2018 for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, called EGALIM law, does not go far enough. I have never seen you in the Chamber participating in the debate on the law to protect farmers' remuneration, known as the EGALIM 2 Act, which we have just adopted. Not once! Stop making big speeches to accuse us of not going far enough and act with us! Not with me! I welcome your many colleagues who are engaged on these issues, with whom we are working constructively, but let us stop with the postures which consist on the one hand of working constructively for the good of farmers and on the other, of pretending, as you have just done, that no commitment would be made. Because that's not true, archofals! I tell you with sincerity: this double speech is dismaying. This is not my conception of political debate. Put your hands in the mess and work with us on all these issues and you'll see: we'll go much faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u147	Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u148	I was elected local before you even had the idea of engaging in politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u149	So what? What a condescendence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u150	You can imagine that at that time I had ample opportunity to "put my hands in the cambodia", as you say, in particular to defend the less-favoured areas: I did not wait for you to do so. Maybe you could pack up your arrogance...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u151	Unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u152	...and answer the specific question I asked you. Several months ago, in the causse of Gramat, you announced to farmers and lamb breeders,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u153	They're getting involved!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u154	...which welcomed you that the Lot would become a pilot department in terms of access to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u155	Please conclude, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u156	You didn't. You did not answer my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u157	Of course I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u158	At least keep this commitment. Then you can give moral lessons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u159	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to raise her question, No. 1629, concerning the situation of the Sarthois farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u160	Many farmers, including livestock farmers, face significant difficulties in increasing the price of raw materials. This is particularly the case for pig and poultry farmers. There has been little change in the selling prices of productions, while food costs are rising. In addition to these market-related difficulties, negotiations with large-scale distribution are also taking place. The Economic Modernization Act of 4 August 2008 and the Act for the Balance of Trade Relations in the Agriculture and Food Sector and a Healthy, Sustainable and Accessible Food for All, known as EGALIM, have attempted to provide answers. Five purchasing centres manage 80% to 90% of large-scale retail purchases and directly or indirectly source their supplies from farms, which are heavily coerced by them. Under these conditions, it is the purchasing centres that fix the prices of their suppliers. Some agricultural producers are thus forced to sell to distributors at a price lower than their production costs, which puts into question the very survival of their operations. While there is general agreement that prices should be calculated on the basis of the production costs of farmers rather than only on the basis of the very large distribution lines, the methods of achieving this differ. Neither the interbranch nor the Observatory for the Formation of Food Prices and Margins (OFPM), an independent body, can define indicators that are binding on all. At the same time, throughout the country, tensions related to purchases of different kinds – speculation, land dedicated to the production of alternative energy, investment funds making access to land difficult except to resort to high debt – are emerging in the land market. Recently, the legislator has recently sought to combat a form of agricultural land grabbing through the divestiture of shares of companies, by creating a new control mechanism triggered by the land development and rural settlement companies (SAFER), but the question of the snacking of land remains. So my question is threefold. What measures does the Government intend to take to deal with market fluctuations? Should the state not favour guaranteed minimum prices and tripartite contracts forcing the agri-food industry to work on the basis of farmers' cost? Finally, what measures and ways of thinking do you favour in order to better protect agricultural land, perhaps in connection with, among other actors, local and regional authorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u161	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u162	The first point you raise refers to the debate that took place during the review of the EGALIM 2 law, which encourages the contracting you call for of your wishes. This law, which was passed three months ago, is being applied with great force and determination. As you know, the specific nature of the agri-food world lies in the annual trade negotiations, which are taking place right now and until the end of February. The application of the EGALIM 2 law will help to promote contracting, which we have generalized and which I believe is essential, because it gives visibility to producers, guarantees transparency and helps to combat the behaviour you have denounced. But the text goes further, since it provides that prices must be fixed by taking production costs as the basis. Even better, the law creates automatic indexing indicators reviewed year after year – which is a key point – and imposes the non-negotiability of the price of agricultural raw materials. On the other hand, it could not go – if only because the text would probably have been censored – until it provided for the setting of prices fixed by law, as this would have contravened the principles of free marketing and free enterprise. The EGALIM 2 law therefore goes as far as possible in regulation. The same determination that led MP Grégory Besson-Moreau and the majority to defend this text will be devoted to ensuring its implementation. In particular, we plan to quadruple the number of controls carried out by the supervisory bodies, the first of which is the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF), to ensure compliance with the law. You are asking me about another very important issue, that of land. This asset represents what the farmer has most precious: it is not only his production tool, but above all the soil, which all actors in the agricultural world cherish. On this issue, the National Assembly has made little progress in adopting Jean-Bernard Sempastous's bill on emergency measures to ensure the regulation of access to agricultural land through membership structures, then passed by the Senate and validated by the Joint Joint Committee (JC) unanimously by the two Assemblies. This law will make it possible to deal with a specific point which, if it may seem technical, is nevertheless essential. Up to now, control over land has not been extended to members' shares. This could be done for structures – farms – but not when the land was held by companies in various forms of membership, resulting in massive diversions. The recently adopted text has provided elements of a response that we will work to deploy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u163	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor to put her question, No. 1632, on the management of rainwater.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u164	Water is at the heart of the stakes linked to France's desire to ensure its food sovereignty. This will only be possible if France has a strong and sustainable agriculture. In my department of Indre-et-Loire, the water used for agricultural irrigation comes mostly from pumping, when our foreign neighbours prefer the storage of rainwater. The multiplication of climatic hazards makes better management of water by the agricultural world paramount. This is one of the reasons why agriculture must be described as a general interest and consecrated, like natural spaces, resources and environments, as the nation's common heritage. As the work of the Varenne de l'eau has shown, all water management levers must be operated. An ambitious and preventive water storage policy must be deployed for all agricultural crops, from field crops to smaller areas such as organic market gardening. This policy is also necessary to facilitate the establishment of young farmers. At a time when the Government intends to allow France "to regain its food sovereignty" and where the French presidency of the Council of the European Union opens, what actions does the Government intend to take to solve this problem, in particular to improve the storage and management of rainwater? We believe it is essential to develop water storage and transfer infrastructures to ensure not only agricultural production, but also the provision of drinking water, the preservation of natural environments or the protection against fires. I am thinking of the treatment plant of Château-Renault, in Touraine, whose water is reused for irrigation, or the example of the well-named commune of Nouans-les-Fontaines, where farmers are ready to co-build an irrigation and maintenance project.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u165	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u166	Your question calls for several elements of answer. First of all, we need to build a political project, create a momentum around the issue of water management. The President of the Republic has asked the Government to do this by taking charge of us, Bérangère Abba and I, to launch the Varenne of water and climate change. This meeting is all the more important because the theme of water has probably not been sufficiently highlighted so far by my ministry, even though it is absolutely essential in agriculture. Secondly, this political momentum must allow us to go beyond the postures that can be observed on both sides. Science, reason and thought should not be placed at the centre of the debates. This is what we have undertaken since the beginning of May by launching three working groups within the framework of the Varenne de l'eau et du changement climatique. The first is devoted to the means of accompanying farmers once the disaster has occurred. That's the whole subject of crop insurance. We have committed ourselves to a bill, and we will be debating it in this House tomorrow afternoon. The theme of the second working group is the adaptation of different forms of agriculture to climate change. Again, work was carried out and returned in early December. The technical agricultural institutes, in particular, have done a great deal of work – I would like to pay tribute to Mrs Anne-Claire Vial, who was running this group. We have thus been able to draw up roadmaps and a timetable on which the sectors themselves commit themselves, the state coming in return to finance the necessary investments through the France Recovery and France 2030 plans. The third working group focuses on access to water. His work, which is in the process of being finalized and is to be submitted between the end of January and the beginning of February, is concerned with three issues. The first is the need to find ways to sustain and improve the famous PTGE, land projects for water management. If they are very important, a consultation cannot last ten or fifteen years, or otherwise lead to nothing. So we need to think about how to be more proactive and improve this framework. The second issue is the need for a resolutely territorial approach: to identify at the scale of each watershed, of each water agency, priority projects at a time of ten, fifteen, twenty or thirty years. It must never be forgotten that it is not the state that defends a project. It can finance, facilitate or improve the normative framework, as we did a few months ago by issuing a decree on water use flows that had been expected for more than ten years, but it is the territory that carries the project – this is an essential point. Finally, the third working group considered the possibility of identifying new water resources. For example, is there a scientific and technological consensus on the capture of the winter rains, which will be more and more frequent? The work on these three themes, which are being finalized, will allow us to conclude on the subject of access to water, as I have told you, between the end of January and the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u167	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u168	Thank you, Minister. You are right when you say that the territories must be the project promoters. I am convinced – I know this to meet regularly – that many farmers are ready to move forward on these issues. We must therefore listen to them and then accompany them, as you said, on a regulatory and financial level.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u169	I call Mr Falorni to speak on his question No 1627 on the organic certification of salt producers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u170	I would like to mention the great fear that has been agitating the sauniers and paludiers of the Atlantic facade for the last few months. I am not talking about their status, because here we have put an end to an injustice that has been affecting them for too long, that of not being recognized as farmers. No, this is the work currently being done by the European Commission to establish criteria for organic labelling of salt production in Europe. As you know, the Commission is currently preparing a proposal for a delegated act including the rules for the production of organic salt which would allow all methods of production of salt to be eligible for the AB label, including the production of mine salt, at least not respecting the principles of European bio. We still do not know when the Commission will publish this document – certainly in the coming weeks. But when it does, Member States will have to give an opinion. This is precisely where the position of France and its minister – you yourself – will have to be the most relevant. So far, the Commission has shown a constant willingness to include salts other than sea salt. A transnational and trans-party movement is being established to support the artisanal salt industry. The stakes are high. The aim is to preserve a historical and cultural heritage, a model of ancestral production, respectful of its environment and biodiversity, which contributes to the attractiveness of the territories, but which could disappear, like its 800 jobs, because of the dominant position of the industrial groups vis-à-vis the artisanal producers. In my constituency, on the island of Re, the sauniers are worried about the organic label project on which Europe is working. According to them, the criteria of the future label are not demanding enough. This text would make almost all existing production methods eligible for the AB label, representing 90% of European production. If the project is validated as it is, the consumer may find himself unable to distinguish the hand-harvested, wind-dried and sun-dried sea salt from the mine salt obtained by sending pressured water into the rock and mixed with anti-agglomerants. Beyond the issue of salt production, what is now involved in defining the criteria that characterize organic farming is the consistency and credibility of a label unanimously recognised by consumers. By trusting it, especially for production methods, they ensure respect for the environment, but also for the quality of the product in fine. Last year, more than nine in ten French people reported that they had consumed organic products, 15% of them even consuming organic products every day. Minister, I know you are very attentive to this question. That's why the entire production line of artisanal salt, from Guérande to Oléron to Noirmoutier and the island of Ré, asks you to defend an ambitious, strong and demanding position, in order to ensure respect for the qualitative strength of the organic label.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u171	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u172	The answer is yes: France will defend – and I will defend on its behalf – a demanding position to differentiate between the methods of production of salt, whether organic or considered more conventional. I have made exactly the same observation as you have throughout the European process. We must remember that this debate is an old one. The European Commission first made a first proposal on labelling, but the distinction between the different methods was very weak. Several Member States then went up to the niche to express their opposition, which led to the creation of a technical group, the last meeting of which took place last October. We are now awaiting the European Commission's delegated act on the basis of which the Member States will have to take a position. My position has always been very clear: firstly, it is important to draw a distinction, because it corresponds to a concern of the producer but also of the consumer; Secondly, this differentiation must be clear. On this subject, I will give you another example to which the actors of the organic sector are very attached: it is not possible, on the same holding, to cultivate organic on one part of the ground and non-bio on another part, because this creates a risk of mixing, the different products cannot be distinguished, and circumventions would therefore be possible. The organic sector must be clearly distinguishable from the conventional sector, and the consumer must be able to obtain this information. Rest assured that I will have a demanding position on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u173	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor to put his question, No 1625, concerning the seventh national nitrate action programme.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u174	I would like to draw your attention to the draft interministerial decree amending the Seventh National Nitrate Action Programme, known as the NAP. It appears that the current version of this proposed Order proposes to change the classification of effluents and their application periods on agricultural land. Such a project, if adopted as such, would have very serious consequences for the beet, starch potato and alfalfa sectors. According to the information available, this draft decree provides for the classification of these effluents in type 2, which amounts to a ban on application as early as 15 October, one month after the start of the sugar and starch campaign. It also plans to limit alfalfa inputs to 70 kilos of nitrogen throughout France, compared with 250 kilos per hectare currently in the Great East. In view of all these elements and the concern of the sectors concerned, do you intend to amend this draft decree to take into account the legitimate demands of sectors already affected by deindustrialisation?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u175	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u176	I will start by reminding you of the context. The revision of the national action plan and the mapping – both aspects are important – of the implementation of the nitrate directive is an exercise that is imposed on us every four years. It is all the more important that, as you know, France has been criticized for failing to implement this European directive and for having under-transposed it in recent years, we are now addressing it. However, we must act with a lot of method and pragmatism. This is the path we have taken, not because of lack of ambition, but because that is how we act effectively, taking into account the realities of the ground. With this in mind, we first began to map the new areas involved – you alluded to them in your question. This has required a great deal of work, including a concerted effort between the agricultural world and government departments, which we recently completed since the new mapping was formalized last autumn. On the other hand, the entry into force of National Action Plan No 7 – as this is the seventh revision of the Directive – was planned last September. In order to take account of the concerns that have been expressed and to take the time to exchange – which is more in the context that we all have in mind and which does not facilitate the task – it was decided to shift it to September 2022, as we announced a few months ago. Consultations at the territorial and national levels have started – or are about to begin, depending on the territories and the files. Again, the realities of the field are taken into account. Forgive me for not being able to answer you as precisely as I like to do usually on the very specific cases that you have mentioned, for the simple reason that to date no decision has been finally taken. These texts are currently or will soon be the subject of consultations. The work of listening, consulting and considering each other's requests will be at the heart of the national action plan that will come into force at the end of the summer or early autumn of 2022, in accordance with our commitment to adapt the timetable to give full place to the concertation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u177	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u178	Minister, you have good words, but you do not reassure me, because this draft order is indeed circulating. Take the example of the derogation – 250 kilos of nitrogen per hectare – from which the entire East benefits: the contribution should now be limited to 70 kilos in the text, and you do not even tell me that you are ready to reconsider this point. If you keep the limit at 70 kilos, it's not complicated: some of the investments will disappear for lack of profitability, and with them the entire downstream agro-industrial sector that depends on it. Take a second example: that of effluents whose application should be prohibited from 15 October. How can starch factories therefore function? There are only two more in France; If you maintain this measure, they will both close. When we talk about the deindustrialisation of the country, we must not forget that certain administrative measures are also at the origin. If you do not take care of it, de-industrialisation in the agri-food sector will continue, while it was one of the two or three sectors that still held from a competitive point of view.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u179	Mr Joachim Son-Forget has the floor to put his question, No. 1634, on the problems of French farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u180	I would like to ask you, Mr Minister for Agriculture and Food, about the problems facing French farmers today. The figures speak for themselves: France has lost nearly 100,000 farms in ten years and while there are 14,000 new farms each year, it would take 7,000 more a year to compensate for all departures; operating managers are aging – 58% of them were over 50 years old in 2020, only 20% under 40 years old, and half of current operators will retire by 2030; in 30 years from the second to the sixth place of the world's exporters of agricultural and food products. This is a record without appeal: we are faced with a continued loss of power from agricultural France for many years. The stakes are high and farmers face many problems: large-scale distribution, which disputes with the agri-food industries the margin made on the backs of producers; the growing lack of competitiveness, which spreads the red carpet to imports; the Brussels Commission; cooperatives. Often in the family, this sector needs to expand and open up to other actors. Restoring our country's food independence will probably also require a re-evaluation of the farming profession. Minister, how do you intend to retain French farmers and attract new ones? How can they help them to value their products in the face of the pressure of the large distribution that often crushes them? If the current system – which favours the consumer over the producer – does not change, it is the breeders and farmers who are going to disappear in our country, while they are already badly affected by certain ideologies that want, among other things, to remove meat from school canteens. I ask these questions even as we work to enhance abroad the work of our farmers – I remember very well the case of the export of French beef to Korea, faced with non-tariff barriers. How do you want to give France back its agricultural power and sovereignty so that it is no longer dependent on its many food imports?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u181	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u182	We must start by saying to all our fellow citizens: "Let us be truly proud of our agriculture. As you know, all studies around the world point out that French agriculture, in its diversity, is one of the most sustainable. As a member of the French delegation from abroad, you are in a good position to know how much all other countries feel about our French agriculture. So let us say, including national representation, to all our fellow citizens to choose the productions of our territories, the excellence of our products. When I hear oppositions, to do the buzz here or there and in an electoralist perspective, caricature, stigmatize, say completely false things to the detriment of our agriculture, the arms fall to me! Our collegial responsibility is to carry this French agricultural pride high and strong and to say to all our fellow citizens: "You vote three times a day, breakfast, lunch and evening: make the choice of the products of the territory, choose those products that come from our beautiful productions when you have the possibility. » The second element of the answer is the development of the farmer's profession. I know the sector particularly well, being an agronomist myself, and I defined this profession from day one as that of the entrepreneurs of the living who feed the people. This definition is at all important, first of all because it stresses that it is a noble mission to feed the people, when many of our fellow citizens are now looking for meaningful jobs. What makes more sense than taking care of others, in this case through their nutrition? While it is sometimes very difficult to be an entrepreneur, it is doubly difficult to be an entrepreneur in the lifetime, because you are obviously not in control of the elements. The mother of the battles, therefore, is the remuneration, for which the Government is fighting with great force, especially through the EGALIM 2 law. You were not elected on that date, but you certainly remember that in 2008, the majority of the time had dared to vote a law called the modernization of the economy – LME – which provided in one of its chapters, to revive the purchasing power of the French, to deregulate trade relations in the agri-food sector. The strongest, in this case the most downstream, would therefore weigh its weight on the upstream, that is, on our farmers, to the point of being able to lower their purchase prices to the same farmers, while the latter's burdens were only increasing. It was a disconcerting facility, a position that undoubtedly pleased many, that went in the direction of the wind, but strategically counterproductive, because it questioned our own food sovereignty. I am speaking not only to the Member of Parliament, but also to the doctor you are: you know that Hippocrates said that the first medicine is diet. And one of our first sovereignty must be agri-food sovereignty. To achieve this, yes, we must fight on compensation – it is EGALIM 2 – and yes, we must invest massively in our means of production and in our agriculture – it is France 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u183	Mr. Patrick Loiseau, speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised his question, No. 1600, concerning the Orange operator.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u184	My question was to the Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications. My problem is: the troubleshooting of the Orange operator, in this case in my Vendée riding. We note too long delays, appointments to which no one is present, free trips charged, that is what the population tells me. Fixed Internet outages are becoming more frequent: this is the observation of many of our citizens throughout the country, while many still connect to the Internet thanks to the ADSL network, the wireline network – not everyone has the fiber. The latter is severely disturbed, to the point of causing at times the suspension of the provision of the service. Reparation may take weeks or even months; sometimes the network works, but the poles are on the ground, the lines rest on village entrance panels or are wound around the trees in the absence of support, or even bare. Orange has already been warned several times for its maintenance of the copper network by the regulator, ARCEP, the Autorité de régulation des communications électroniques, des postes et de la distribution de la presse ; but the historic operator has set the date of the copper network extinction to 2030 and intends to make the copper switch to the fibre as soon as possible from 2023. This decision is misperceived by rural areas, who fear that they will be forgotten by fibre and that they will still have to endure the current situation for several years pending a lasting solution in order to be able to access the very high speed. So my question is twofold. In the face of the poor state of Orange's historic telephone network, how can the manager demand that it restore this network, ensure reliable and permanent access to the internet and the telephone and a rapid return to service during breakdowns? How can we ensure that Orange, the delegate of the universal service, puts in place the means necessary to ensure a peaceful extinction of the copper network in rural areas that still lack access to very high-speed in order to allow alternative connectivity solutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u185	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u186	You are asking the Government about coverage and access to the Internet via telephone services, and I have noted that you are aware of the efforts that are being made for fibre coverage. There is indeed France's very high-speed plan, but also the New Deal mobile for 4G, which mobilises a great deal of financing since the State spends more than 3.5 billion euros to accompany the investment of operators in the most difficult areas, in addition to the already massive and accelerating private investments. In June 2021, 53 % of the premises located in the most difficult territories were eligible for very high speed, i.e. fibre, an increase of 5 % in six months and, in the third quarter of 2021, their number increased by 710000, an increase of 60 % compared to the same period of the previous year. That being said, there are still a large number of territories and dwellings that are not connected to fibre and still depend on the traditional network. During this pivotal period, the historic operator must maintain its copper network in order to guarantee our fellow citizens quality communications – I remind him both as a member of the Government and as an elected member of the Ardèche, a department particularly concerned with the need to maintain the copper network at present. The problems you have highlighted have been highlighted by your colleague Célia de Lavergne's report of 10 February 2021, and we have provided on behalf of the State two answers to these difficulties related to the maintenance and condition of the copper network. Firstly, the telecoms regulator, ARCEP, intensified its controls on the quality of Orange's fixed telephony service and set out quality of service obligations at wholesale market level in a decision of 17 December 2020. This includes the timing of the provision of benefits, the compliance rate of the benefits, the quality of the after-sales service and the monthly incident rates on the fleet. This quality requirement will, of course, have a positive impact on the retail services of all operators – ARCEP is particularly committed to this. Secondly, we have held discussions with Orange that have led to an agreement, which the Prime Minister announced on 21 May during a trip to Drôme. The operator has thus committed to maintain 500 million euros per year of investments devoted to the maintenance of the copper network throughout the national territory, despite a number of active lines in sharp decline, the 22 % increase in the budget per active line since 2018 being explained by the decrease in the number of these lines – last year, 3.3 million French subscribed to a fibre subscription and 2.5 million cancelled their copper subscription. However, fewer active lines must be maintained. In addition, under this agreement, EUR 10 million is allocated to seventeen priority territories, which have been determined in consultation with the elected representatives, and the operator is stepping up its recruitment with 123 new posts, primarily allocated to the departments in tension, with national crisis response staff increasing by 30%. Finally, in case of malfunction, Orange undertakes to provide a mobile backup solution in no more than 24 hours from the date of the incident and, in the absence of mobile coverage and for cases of interruption of collective service on a more or less large part of the network, a satellite telephone solution will be made available in the town hall to provide first aid in the field of communication. We are also ensuring, in the same context, that the provision of universal telephony service is maintained. On the other hand, I would like to point out that monitoring of the important France very high-speed plan is carried out with local consultation committees, under the auspices of the prefects, and with a national consultation committee. The Government will, of course, ensure that all commitments requested by ARCEP and made by the incumbent operator are kept to provide an answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u187	I call Mrs Clémentine Autain to speak on her question No. 1605 on the transformation of the civil service.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u188	In Sevran, Tremblay-en-France and Villepinte, the cities I represent here, impressive mobilizations have recently taken place against the law of transformation of the public service voted in 2019. It obliges municipalities to increase the working time of territorial officials, threatening municipalities that do not do so with legal attacks by the State. In essence, the Government wants to force communities to step up their social regression. This new anti-rights offensive comes in a context where the salaries of territorial civil servants are already on average very low, or even decreasing, as they are frozen despite widespread inflation. The increase in their working time without pay increases, coupled with the elimination of leave days and the abolition of shifts, shows where your priority is. Even arduous jobs, with staggered hours, are not spared. However, the territories are overrepresented in the trades of the famous front line that we applauded during the beginning of the epidemic. At the bottom, you want to blow them off! I'm talking about the garbagemen who clean our cities, the health workers who look after our most fragile fellow citizens in the EHPADs, the specialized territorial agents of the nursery schools (ATSEM) who accompany our children. Do you really think that today's priority is to lose control of their working conditions, to attack the autonomy of the municipalities, enshrined in the Constitution, and to increase working time while mass unemployment logically causes us to reduce it? We are living in a period of severe poverty and have been hit hard by a large-scale health and social crisis. The choice to focus your attacks on the already precarised populations remains the alpha and omega of the Government's policy. Are you considering going back to the law of August 6, 2019, as unfair as it is unproductive? Will you finally help the municipalities to face the legitimate challenge they face?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u189	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u190	I am familiar with the law of August 6, 2019, because I defended it before the National Assembly and the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u191	You regret it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u192	I would like to challenge some of the statements in your question. First of all, the law of transformation of the civil service does not increase working time; It recalls that the legal working time in our country is 1607 hours under the Act of 19 January 2000 on the negotiated reduction of working time. According to the Act of 6 August, the communities must, within one year of the renewal of their deliberative assembly, deliberate on an agreement on working time with respect to 1607 hours. This leads communities that have not reviewed their working time protocols since the 2000 Act came into force to revise them. Communities will have to review them systematically in the year following a renewal of their deliberative assembly and will strive to comply with the law. The law sets working time at 1607 hours. This is not an increase in working time: it is a question of achieving the working time for which a person working full-time is paid. I would remind you that communities must apply the law: the autonomy you have insisted on does not exempt any of them from doing so, as it is exercised in accordance with the laws that apply to each of the communities and to each of the actors in the country. Secondly, the jobs that you call painful – I share the use of this term, even if we know that in law there are other definitions – can, as in the private sector, benefit from special arrangements in the context of planning and reducing working time. I'm thinking of night jobs, sequenced work, weekend work. Such hardships are taken into account and may result in reductions in working time below 1607 hours, provided that the criteria of hardship referred to by the deliberative assemblies meet the definition set out in the law. In 2021, a number of communities had to change the previous working time regime and arrangements quite significantly. In most cases, this has gone well and the deliberations have been adopted. Some communities, on the other hand, seek to highlight issues or characteristics that do not meet the legal framework, which may have led to referrals to administrative justice, and others may have encountered a little more difficulty in negotiations. The objective, however, remains the same: to ensure that when one is paid full-time to work in a trade that is not subject to particular hardships, working time corresponds to full-time pay, i.e. 1607 hours per year in both the public and private sectors. I repeat, it is a mere reminder of the law, and in no case an increase in working time, contrary to what you say. We take into account the persistence, we apply the law in a framework of equality, and we respect the autonomy of communities. When deliberations are taken that do not correspond to the law and are therefore manifestly illegal, the prefects do not use threats or sanctions: they simply do their job, which is to submit the proceedings in question to the administrative courts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u193	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u194	Deputy Minister, I am sorry, your remarks are simply a denial of the reality experienced by the agents. In concrete terms, some will work more for the same salary. That's the reality! You can wrap all this up to us as you want in the name of equality and law enforcement, staff are really experiencing a deterioration in their working conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u195	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor to put his question, No. 1606, on public finance centres.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u196	Massive restructuring is at work in the administration of public finances under the chanting name of "new networks of proximity". It covers numerous closures of centres and provides for abolitions of posts – 107 in the Bouches-du-Rhône. You sing the chorus "Adieu Venise Provençale" by announcing the closing of the treasury of a commune of 50,000 inhabitants, Martigues, the fourth city of the department, which covered an area of nearly 100,000 inhabitants. On 1 January 2023, the accounting management of the communes of Martigues, Port-de-Bouc, Châteauneuf-les-Martigues, Sausset-les-Pins, Carry-le-Rouet, and on 1 September 2023, that of the communal centres for social action (CCAS) and the intercommunal centre for social action (CIAS) of the Country of Martigues would be transferred to the accounting management department of Istres. The accounting management of the hospital in Martigues, which covers a much wider area, would be transferred to Arles, more than 45 kilometres away. This choice, which removes from the map one of the department's large cash balances and removes some 20 skilled jobs in the city's territory, will affect the working relationship between the public finance administration, through its agents, and the institutions concerned. It is a question of the accompaniment of daily life and of the working and trust relationship established with authorising officers in a certain fluidity, whereas the complexity of situations often requires a direct relationship. The mayors I have interviewed oppose this perspective and the agents with whom I have been able to have an exchange refuse to do so for professional reasons and are concerned about the transformations that this will produce both in their work and, of course, in their personal lives. I would ask you, Deputy Minister responsible for Public Accounts, to stay this decision in order to review the situation taking into account all the elements. There is a proposal on the table to retain at least one antenna, but the best formula remains to maintain full cash in Martigues. I take this opportunity to ask you a subsidiary question concerning the future of the Port-de-Bouc customs post and the control of the TICEP – internal consumption tax on energy products – carried out on the spot, with receipts of the order of 4 billion euros per year.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u197	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u198	You are right, the services of the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) are undergoing an important reorganization. We are deploying the new proximity network, which is characterized by three points. The first is to increase the number of points of contact, either in buildings occupied solely by the public finance services or in the framework of public service houses. Our goal is that users can be accommodated in 3000 physical points, compared to 2000 in the old network. The second point is to set up advisers for local decision-makers: more than 1500 will be appointed across the country, with the sole task of providing advice to elected officials in this unique relationship of trust that you have described. The third point is to bring together a number of administrative training services to reach critical sizes, while in many places accounting positions now have only a few units that require such consolidations. As far as Bouches-du-Rhône is concerned, the consultation was conducted by the prefect of department, prefect of the region, with meetings per district and meetings in plenary session. There have been a number of adaptations. In the area of the pond of Berre, on which you question me, we do not close the public finance centre of Martigues. We maintain the personal tax service and a reception of users on the site. The staff of the personal tax department has even increased, since they are increasing from 23 agents today to about 50, due to the rapprochement with the Istres department you mentioned. Moreover, the transfer of other activities relating to the taxation of professionals or to the hospital treasury, either to Istres or to Arles, does not alter the order of magnitude of the number of agents on the Martigues site. This is a reorganization. Although the cash position will no longer be located in Martigues, the reception of private individuals will remain there, where approximately 50 agents will be present. We carry out this reorganization with a double concern of efficiency in the organization of our services and of improving the capacity to receive and maintain as close a network as possible to the territory. This reform, which we have been implementing since 2019, really aims to multiply by 1.5 the number of physical points in which taxpayers will be able to meet with public finance officers. It also aims to free them from any administrative task to advise local decision-makers – that of the Berre pond area was appointed on January 1st – to allow them to devote themselves only to the council of elected representatives. It is, I believe, on this mission that they are expected. We will, of course, continue to set up this network with the consultation and preparation I have mentioned. With regard to the customs implementation that you have mentioned, I will allow myself to return to you with more precise elements, so as to be quite sure to provide you with the most correct answer as regards both the mission in question and the timetable for redeployment in the context of the unification of recovery, which is characterized by transfers of missions between customs and DGFIP.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u199	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u200	Deputy Minister, I have seen the map of the new contact points, but we cannot be satisfied with your argument about their multiplication. Indeed, these points of contact are not real centres of public finance as we know them. They are more responsible to communities for some of them. Indeed, they must now compensate for the drastic reduction in real public services. You respond by referring the advisers to local decision-makers who would be deployed locally and discharged from other missions. In reality, this is not the same service; They will do public relations when we ask for the maintenance of the real service that exists today, not the creation of a kind of heritage manager. I do not know exactly how their missions will be defined over time, but it seems to us that this is a problem. I would add that we must not go towards industrialization of tasks. Let us discuss it together, Minister Delegate, with reference to the case of Martigues!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u201	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to raise her question, No. 1637, concerning the half-tax share of veterans' widows.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u202	Ms. Delegate Minister of Memory and Veterans Affairs, widows of holders of the Combatant's Card or the Nation's Recognition Title are a full national of the National War Veterans' Office (NWVA). They welcome the extension of access to the additional half-tax from 1 January 2021, once they have reached 74 years of age. This measure will apply to widows whose spouse had received the veteran's pension, awarded at the age of 65. The allocation of the tax half share is now extended to widows whose spouse died between the ages of 65 and 74. However, the reference to the age of death has not been deleted. Widows of cardholders who died before age 65 are thus excluded from this new measure. The widows concerned by this exclusion legitimately consider that this undermines the State's recognition of the service rendered to the country by their deceased husbands. As a member of the National Defence Committee of the National Assembly, I have recently been made aware of this issue by a number of veterans' associations. Today I want to relay their legitimate incomprehension and discontent. It would be timely to consider any measures that would eliminate discrimination against certain widows by removing inequality based on the age of death of their fighting husbands. What are the Government's intentions in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u203	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u204	As you indicate, this extension of the fiscal half share has satisfied many widows and veterans as well as many associations that have been calling for it for a long time. Parliament finally implemented it. I recall that the so-called 62-64 card – for services carried out in Algeria between July 1962 and July 1964 – allows more than 37,000 additional veterans to benefit from the veteran's pension since 2019 and, as a result, the half-tax share from the age of 74. The achievement of this half share is linked to the retirement of the 65-year-old fighter. This is the case for veterans and widows alike. The latter are very diverse, because of their age, their journey, their standard of living. I am thinking first of all of widows and widowers of war and invalids of war affected by the loss of their spouse or by the latter's serious injuries. These spouses receive a military pension to provide for their needs. They also benefit from a half-tax share, without age conditions for them as for their deceased spouse in combat. In 2019 and 2020, I also defended favourable measures for widows of large invalids. In 2022, I wanted us to be able to revalue the Military Disability Pension Index (MIP) point from EUR 14.70 to EUR 15.05, which has a visible and immediate effect on the standard of living of widows who receive military disability and reversion pensions from their spouses. For all the other widows, in addition to the half-tax share associated with getting their spouse's fighter card, my priority was to increase and maintain the means to support the most fragile. I want to remind you: the most fragile are not taxable and have to face the costs of living, and sometimes the costs of addiction. This is where the ONACVG's social welfare budget is essential in addition to the Government's resolute action in favour of small pensions, which is a matter of common law. In 2021, this budget was fully consumed through the mobilization of the ONACVG's outreach services. These were my priorities: the rule of allocating the half-tax on the basis of obtaining the fighter's retirement for veterans and widows from age 65 and, of course, support for the most vulnerable widows who are not taxable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u205	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u206	Madam Deputy Minister, thank you for your explanation. Whether the widows of a fighter pay taxes or not, it is the duty of memory that France must exercise with regard to its veterans and the honour of their widows.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u207	Mr Julien Ravier, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1623, on the protection and support of Armenia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u208	I wish to draw the Government's attention to France's attitude towards Azerbaijani intrusions into Armenian sovereign territory. The end of 2021 saw the outbreak of further clashes between Armenia and Azerbaijan, with a violation of Armenian territory by the Azerbaijani army and new Armenian prisoners. These unfortunate ones are in addition to those still detained by Azerbaijan in total violation of the ceasefire and peace agreements reached following the Nagorny Karabakh conflict of 2020, during which the Azerbaijani army attacked the Republic of Nagorny Karabakh with the support of Turkish forces and jihadist mercenaries under Ankara's orders. I will not go back to this conflict, which claimed the lives of nearly 5000 people in the deafening silence of the international community, demonstrating the complete weakness of the Minsk Group in its mission to encourage a peaceful and negotiated resolution between Armenia and Azerbaijan concerning the territory of Nagorny Karabakh. Without Russia's peaceful interposition force, the Armenian population of Nagorny Karabakh would have been completely decimated. Once again, I can only regret that France did not intervene alongside Russia to preserve peace in this region. As I said at the beginning of my speech, things are even more serious today. I was in Armenia on 15 November, when the region experienced the most serious incident between Armenia and Azerbaijan since the end of the Nagorny Karabakh war a year ago. The Azerbaijani forces attacked the sovereign territory of the Republic of Armenia, taking two Armenian military positions and causing further deaths and injuries, as well as 12 new Armenian prisoners according to the Armenian Ministry of Defence. This situation is completely unacceptable. However, France's response, by means of a press release from the Quai d'Orsay, arrived very late in relation to the international community. Worse still, it did not condemn these attacks, which caused the incomprehension, if not the indignation, of a number of elected representatives of whom I am a member and of the entire Armenian diaspora of France. We are facing a real war of civilization at the gates of Europe. The Armenian people have more than 2,000 years of history, Armenia is one of the cradles of our humanity and Christendom. Are we going to wait passively for our Armenian brothers to be removed from the map without reacting? My questions are simple. What does France intend to do to release Armenian prisoners of war who are still illegally detained in Baku? What does France intend to do to protect the borders of the sovereign territory of the Republic of Armenia, in order to prevent the pan-Turkish project of conquest of southern Armenia by the Turkish-Azerian alliance from being realized?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u209	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u210	More than a year after the conflict in Nagorny Karabakh, the South Caucasus remains plagued by tensions that hinder the establishment of lasting peace in the region. The ceasefire agreement of 9 November 2020, which ended the conflict in autumn 2020, remains imperfectly implemented and its blind spots leave several questions unanswered. France, co-chair of the Minsk Group with Russia and the United States, remains committed and is working towards a lasting peace between the two sides. This is the meaning of the discussions that the President of the Republic had with the Armenian Prime Minister and the President of Azerbaijan in Brussels on 15 December. This is also the meaning of Jean-Yves Le Drian's effort: on November 10, 2021, he gathered in Paris his two counterparts for the first time since the end of the war. We need to address a number of key issues in order to stabilize the situation and discuss the parameters for a sustainable solution. I am thinking, for example, of the delimitation of the border between the two countries, which remains unfinished and gives rise to significant tensions. The incursion in May 2021 of the Azerbaijani armed forces into Armenian territory, which the President of the Republic was the first to denounce, is a legacy of the past of the two former republics neighbouring the USSR. France has always stressed the importance of conducting this work through negotiation, far from any fait accompli on the ground. Secondly, I am also thinking of the ongoing discussions on all the humanitarian problems related to the autumn 2020 conflict that remain to be resolved, starting with the release of prisoners of war and demining. Developments in recent weeks are encouraging, as 20 prisoners were released by Azerbaijan in December and Armenia has submitted all the maps of the minefields in its possession. You know our commitment to humanitarian aid. In 2021, we spent €2 million to finance the activities of the International Committee of the Red Cross, the ICRC, which is now the only international organization active in Nagorny Karabakh and which visits Armenian detainees and continues to search for missing persons. We are therefore at the rendezvous of responsibility, on the basis of our mandate as co-chair of the Minsk Group, by seeking pragmatic solutions with both sides capable of establishing peace. Moreover, and it is obviously not exclusive, we remain at the meeting of solidarity with the Armenian people, given the historical and cultural ties that bind us to them. In this context, we are working to strengthen our cooperation with Armenia, with which we have recently concluded a bilateral road map. I can assure you that, as co-chair of the Minsk Group of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), France will spare no effort to promote peace in the South Caucasus, and we will continue to work tirelessly in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u211	The floor is open to Mr. Stéphane Travert, to put his question, No. 1612, concerning the general states of justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u212	The President of the Republic and the Government have launched the general states of justice, and here in Parliament we have voted for an unprecedented increase in the appropriations for justice. Since 2017, there has been an increase of almost 32% in the budget. Strong action has thus been taken. Within the framework of the general states of justice, the Government wishes to restore the link between those who are litigants and those who make her live on a daily basis. You are certainly aware of the status of temporary magistrates, who are lay judges recruited on file by the Supreme Council of the Judiciary for a period of five years, renewable once. Judges on a temporary basis perform partial and ad hoc judicial functions and are paid for vacation. At the same time, the age limit is 75, as for honorary magistrates or judges of commercial courts. As you know, some jurisdictions suffer from a lack of magistrates – this is particularly the case in the Department of the English Channel. This situation causes delays in court decisions and can give our fellow citizens the feeling of too slow justice. Today, almost 450 temporary magistrates are assigned to different jurisdictions where they are very useful. Madam Minister Delegate, would it be possible to allow magistrates on a temporary basis who, at the end of their two five-year term, have not reached the age limit of 75 years, to extend the exercise of this profession by regularly asking for renewal by a simple annual renewal of the contract? Temporary judges could thus usefully continue to serve the judiciary and litigants up to the age limit prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u213	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u214	Mr President, first of all I would like to apologize to Mrs Marlène Schiappa, Deputy Minister for Citizenship, who was selected at the last moment at the Elysée and asked me to answer you. I would like to thank you for your intervention, which raises a particularly relevant question, although it is not without some of our main legal principles. First, it gives us the opportunity to warmly welcome the work done by all judges on a temporary basis from civil society. They are making a truly valuable contribution to justice. In both civil and criminal matters, they help bring the latter closer to the citizen. During the quinquennium, we significantly strengthened their intervention by increasing the number of vacancies available for each magistrate acting on a temporary basis. As you recalled, their status provides for an appointment for a five-year term renewable once. Unfortunately, it does not seem possible to go beyond this, at the risk of colliding with the Constitution. As their name indicates, they can only perform their duties on a temporary basis, so as not to equate their duties with a professional career. In addition, the annual renewal that you are advocating raises another problem of conformity with the Constitution: since these judges are appointed in the form prescribed for the judges of the seat, an appointment without the advice of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary and without a decree of the President of the Republic would be unconstitutional and therefore invalid. I cannot therefore respond favourably to your request.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u215	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to raise her question, No. 1603, on methods and means used in the context of verbalisation without questioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u216	"We used to beat our children with truncheons; Today, they're being beaten with fines. On October 17, 2021, on the Belleville esplanade, this testimony of a mother of a family joined that of many others: all found the same procedure, fines that arrived by La Poste and accused their child of spilling unhealthy liquid, stinging, drinking alcohol on the highway or depositing waste off authorized sites, without the principals being verbalized. The figures are dizzying: 5000, 10,000, up to 25,000 euros fine. An unbearable debt for young people who see their horizon blocked, but also for their families, who find themselves caught up in the throat and plunged a little more into precariousness. This phenomenon is not confined to the north-east of Paris, but affects all the inhabitants of the working-class neighbourhoods, and most of the young people under the age of 25 who are racialized. This was observed by the lawyer and sociologist Aline Daillère, who has been studying this reality for four years now. From Argenteuil in the Val d'Oise to Saint-Martin-le-Vinoux in Isère, passing through Calais in Pas-de-Calais, field surveys reveal the same reasons for verbalization, profiles and methods. In May 2020, the prosecutor of the Republic of Évry alerted the local authorities to this phenomenon, stressing that "verbalizations carried out at a distance, sometimes in a successive manner, without the offenders being expressly aware of it, are irregular. » Two months ago, in November 2021, I addressed to the Minister of the Interior a written question on the non-compliance with the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the notice and the notice of contravention must be drawn up in the presence of the offender. This question remained unanswered, as did that of March 2021 concerning the same procedure applied to fines in the first wave of covid -19 for non-compliance with the wearing of the mask or confinement. In June 2020, I asked a question on the same subject; the department responded in an evasive and partial manner. June 2020, March 2021, November 2021: when will these young French and French people, who see their lives put in brackets today, have the right to get an answer on the legality of a phenomenon that breaks their future? Why so much contempt for these citizens, inhabitants and inhabitants of the working-class neighbourhoods? Is it an embarrassment to justify a procedure that is simply illegal? Such discrimination must cease.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u217	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u218	Let me first greet our police officers and gendarmes, who are mobilized day and night on the ground to ensure the protection of all the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u219	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u220	I strongly condemn the insinuation that there is a police force that uses illegal methods in sensitive neighbourhoods, particularly in the procedures you mention. I come to the bottom of your question. Infringements of a criminal nature may be found by police officers without arrest. These transactions result in the issuance of a paper contravention or an electronic report.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u221	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u222	This is indeed the role of the police, and our fellow citizens are entitled to wait for the crime or incivilities they observe or suffer to be repressed. As for the various grounds for verbalization that you quote, I confirm the possibility for the police officers to act by way of a ticket for each of them. First, alcohol consumption is regulated. In particular, minors cannot buy or consume alcohol in public places, drunkenness on public roads is illegal and alcohol consumption may also be prohibited in certain places by prefectural or municipal decree. In the case of day and night noises, interventions are most often motivated by complaints from the neighbourhood and calls to the Emergency Police. The findings are made on the spot by the police officers, who then judge the situation and verbalise if the noise is found.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u223	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u224	In Paris alone, verbalizations for these reasons increased by 80% between the first eleven months of 2020 and those of 2021: 3486 verbalizations in 2020, 6188 in 2021, in all the arrondissements of the capital. I would point out that in Paris, the municipal police, created in October 2021 thanks to the action of the presidential majority, are now competent to fight against incivilities and nuisances and will also be able to verbalise people who commit incivilities. Whether in Paris, in the suburbs, in Bordeaux or in the Landes, the situation is the same, and police and gendarmerie have the same possibilities so that incivilities do not harm the tranquillity of the population.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u225	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u226	Deputy Minister, it is not the officers who are involved, but the number policy that explains this type of procedure. On the other hand, you have not listened well or heard my question: it is not the verbalizations per se, but the verbalizations without the presence of the persons concerned – the fines received by the Post Office, the remote verbalizations. This is where there is a problem of legality, to which you have not answered. Your answer betrays the embarrassment to justify this type of procedure, which has an impact not only on individuals and their families, but also on all the neighbourhoods concerned, which are all the more stigmatized. You thus confirm the political choice that is yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u227	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to speak on her question, No. 1635, concerning the organisation of the presidential election.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u228	About three months before the presidential election, the search for sponsorships by the candidates is in full swing. Since the April 2016 Act, the names of elected officials sponsoring a candidate have been made public in a systematic manner. This publicity is a real problem for our democracy and even a danger. Since the effective application of this new law, mayors have been much more reluctant to nominate a candidate to the highest office. Why? Even if no one dares to say it frankly, we know perfectly well that it is out of fear of what can legitimately be described, even if the word seems strong, as reprisals. Subsidies are often vital to the smooth running of a municipality. The mayor of a small village will therefore think twice before giving his signature, and thereby throwing his name into pasture, to a candidate who is not on the same side as the presidents of the communities on which he depends. Of course, nothing is written, nothing is said, but it exists, it can exist, and the doubt that settles in the minds is already too much. Yes, political positions can be expensive. Under this sacrosanct transparency, will some candidates be prevented from running for election to the French when they represent a current of thought? The risk is real, and if some candidates could not run for the presidential election for lack of sponsorship, imagine for a moment the consequences that this would have in French opinion. What a discredit on the whole election! [[Applause on certain benches of non-attached Members]] Our democracy and our people are mature enough to allow everyone to make their choice when the day comes. However, all opinions must be represented, and the sponsorships of local elected officials, once again anonymous, will continue to fulfil their role and prevent the candidacy of a dangerous farfelu or extremist. Madam Minister Delegate, I am speaking to you because the Minister of the Interior is not here: would you be prepared to amend the organic law with a view to abolishing the advertising of sponsorships in the presidential election? It is sufficient to initiate an accelerated procedure and to delete Article 3 of the Organic Law of 2016.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u229	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u230	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u231	The rules governing the election of the President of the Republic cannot be changed less than three months after the election: it is a matter of the legibility of the election. The amendment of the rules closest to the election could be interpreted by our fellow citizens as an attempt to manoeuvre, especially since the 1962 law on the election of the President of the Republic has been amended several times since the presidential election in 2017 and these amendments were the subject of a parliamentary debate in early 2021 which led to the adoption of the Organic Law of 29 March 2021 on various measures relating to the election of the President of the Republic. In substance, as you know, the aim of the sponsorship filter is to avoid too many candidates in the presidential election, and in particular to rule out candidates that I would say "fantasy" or "witness". Advertising of sponsorships stems from the principle of political responsibility and the requirement of transparency that we owe to electors: elected officials who have decided to nominate a candidate must take this choice before their electors. This publicity does not violate any constitutional rule, as the Constitutional Council has ruled, which recalled that "the presentation of candidates by the eligible elected citizens cannot be equated with the expression of a vote" and therefore does not have to be secret. The situation you describe, namely that elected officials would face reprisals because of the sponsorship they have granted, is criminally reprehensible and constitutes a very serious violation of fundamental freedom of opinion in any democracy. It is not through a decline in transparency that we, as elected representatives, must answer to the voters, but through a very firm attitude towards those who would threaten their elected representatives on the grounds that they have expressed themselves freely. That is my conviction and that of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u232	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u233	It is the same argument that we are referred to each time: it would be customary for us not to change the rules less than three months from the election. But it is a practice, and this use could prevent three candidates – Mr Mélenchon, Mrs Le Pen and Mr Zemmour, each representing more than 10% of the voting intentions, more than 40% of them – from running for the presidential election. [[Applause on certain benches of non-attached Members]] You know very well that we can amend the organic law by initiating the accelerated procedure – it is enough from the will of the Government. If, in three months' time, these three candidates, for one reason or another, did not receive the necessary sponsorships to run for the presidential election, this election would be tainted by an enormous feeling of illegitimacy, whatever the President elected at the end of this election: whatever he may be, he will be considered by a part of the French as illegitimate. It is a real responsibility of the Government. He has the opportunity to initiate an accelerated procedure to revise the organic law: the ball is on your side, Madam Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u234	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1604, concerning the application of LOPPSI to La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u235	In recent years, Réunion and my constituency have been subjected to unbearable excesses of violence. While the city of Saint-André, with its new police station and a community facility, has been able to reduce acts of violence, a disturbing climate prevails in Saint-Benoît, another city in my constituency. On November 3, we witnessed great violence among young people, using firearms, white weapons and rocks of various sizes. Gendarmes were also caught by some 15 individuals. This act of gratuitous violence has caused numerous damage to property. An elderly person assaulted, a woman whose purse was stolen from the snatched, a child whose phone or even his clothes were subdued, robberies in the houses..., this is the daily life in some neighborhoods and too many people live in an uneasy climate. Acts of violence also took place on Halloween Day: stone throws, burnt trash, firemen threatened. The newly established Local Security and Delinquency Prevention Councils (CLSPDs) and local crime treatment groups (GLTDs) in Saint-Benoît alone cannot address this problem. Social policy and the presence of actors in the territory must be stepped up. A territorial development policy that creates jobs, associative, cultural and sporting activities is necessary. Together with the Reunion region, I am working on a direction for rebalancing the eastern microregion, the territory that has accumulated too many delays. At the same time, the state must create conditions for optimal protection of the population – and that is my question, Madam Minister Delegate. Delinquency in our home is due in particular to the arrival of new drugs, the mimicry of young people who seek to resemble others and the cultural differences of certain groups of individuals who do not adapt to the island. Not to curb this attitude now is to have more difficulty in doing so afterwards. Gendarmes and police officers have the competence APJ 20, i.e. they are judicial police officers according to article 20 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but only police officers have anti-criminality brigades and intervention companies specialized in law enforcement. Why is the law of orientation and programming for the performance of internal security, known as the LOPPSI 2 law, passed more than ten years ago, not applied to Réunion and Saint-Benoît? This law provides that municipalities with more than 10000 inhabitants may benefit from police stations, both in Hexagon and overseas. Eight communes of La Réunion – including Saint-Benoît, with 31,000 inhabitants – are not in the police zone. This would also create jobs and see the return of reunited police officers from Hexagon requesting their transfer to their island.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u236	The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u237	In both the overseas and metropolitan areas, the Government has been mobilizing exceptional resources since the beginning of the quinquennium to provide concrete responses to the problems of delinquency and insecurity. The recruitment of 10,000 police officers and gendarmes on the quinquennium enhances the presence on the highway. In La Réunion, the police force increased by 238 and the gendarmerie by 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u238	That's not my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u239	This effort is bearing fruit, with crime falling by 15.4% between 2019 and 2021 in the national gendarmerie (ZGN). The budget of the Ministry of the Interior increased by EUR 1.5 billion in 2022 to enable the internal security forces to carry out their tasks in the best possible conditions of efficiency. Issues of governance and operational doctrine and adaptation to the changing nature of crime are also essential. The National Police has made important reforms, such as the establishment in January 2020 of territorial directorates of the National Police (DTPN) in Mayotte, Guyana and New Caledonia. Cooperation between police and gendarmerie is also an important issue in developing synergies and complementarities and strengthening the anchoring in the territories. Trouble resolution was not exclusively a matter of security. The gendarmerie has therefore engaged in an important preventive aspect, including contact patrols composed of at least one Creole speaking gendarmerie, going to meet the young, the displacement of the gendarmes to the colleges in order to create a bond of trust, the door-to-door of a gendarmerie of the local brigade accompanied by an imam and a representative of the social donors to go in front of the population. For lasting results, the work of the gendarmerie must be accompanied by other measures: social mix, the role of ombudsmen, complementarity with the municipal police. These measures will be discussed at a future CLSPD. In agreement with the prosecutor of Saint-Denis, a GLTD has been validated and put in place to provide an appropriate and comprehensive response. Clearly, the situation is complex and the measures to be taken are also complex. Nevertheless, the increase in resources and the preventive measures that we have launched should help to meet the needs of Réunion Island.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u240	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-11-O1118.u241	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government. The meeting is adjourned.
