ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u1	The next item is the discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law ratifying Order No. 2021-484 of 21 April 2021 on the arrangements for the representation of self-employed persons using platforms and the conditions for the exercise of such representation and empowering the Government to supplement by order the rules organizing social dialogue with platforms (No. 4866).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u2	Mrs Carole Grandjean, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u3	This bill gives an increasing number of workers – VTC drivers, passenger vehicles with drivers, and two-wheeled freight forwarders – the right to designate representatives to interact with the digital platforms they use for their business. It is in line with the El Khomri Act, which established the principle of platform social responsibility for self-employed workers. It also follows from the mobility guidance law which allowed the platforms to draw up a charter setting out the conditions and modalities for the exercise of this responsibility. The latter law has led to the construction of a social dialogue between the platforms and the self-employed by allowing the Government to define by order the manner in which these workers are represented and the conditions under which they are represented. Thus, the Order of April 21, 2021 came into being, and section 1 of the bill is intended to ratify. As it stands, the Ordinance deals with the representation of self-employed workers and entrusts to a new public institution, the Autorité des relations sociales des platforms d'emploi (ARPE), the regulation of social relations between platforms and workers. In coherence, article 2 empowers the Government to make by order the necessary arrangements for the further construction of social dialogue in these sectors. On 28 September, our Assembly adopted the text at first reading, after having enriched it; I am thinking in particular of the clarification that representatives of workers and platforms will be able to make use of expertise on the elements necessary for the negotiation of sector agreements. Shortly thereafter, the Senate, in turn, adopted the bill, not without amending it. That did not prevent, and it is pleased, the Joint Joint Committee meeting on 5 January from agreeing on the text that the rapporteur for the Senate, Frédérique Puissat, and I myself proposed to adopt. Let me come back briefly. In Article 1, we found it useful, as the Senate supported, to refocus the role of ARPE on the regulation of social dialogue between digital platforms and workers rather than on the regulation of social relations between the two parties. In addition, for the sake of simplicity, we wanted not to impose on workers who would be engaged in both VTC driving and goods delivery activities to have to choose one sector rather than another to exercise their right to vote. In article 2, the differences between the two assemblies gave way to compromise drafting. First, the power to legislate by ordinance to organise social dialogue at the level of each platform is removed. Secondly, the shared concern to provide more guidance to future provisions on the periodicity and scope of collective bargaining at sectoral level is reflected in the power to legislate by order rather than in a new article to include these provisions in the Labour Code. Thus, the Ordinance will define the themes and periodicity of collective bargaining. These themes will include ways of determining workers' incomes, but also measures to improve their working conditions and to prevent occupational risks to which they may be exposed. In addition, ARPE's missions are evolving: its mediation role will not be exercised between platforms and self-employed workers, but between the former and the latter's representatives. Finally, the order must be made within nine months. This will enable the Commission to incorporate the European Commission's guidelines on the compatibility between European competition law and agreements resulting from collective bargaining between self-employed workers and digital employment platforms. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this text is a step forward for the approximately 50,000 workers in the mobility and delivery platforms. We are convinced that social dialogue is the best way to rebalance relations between workers and platforms. It is the ambition of this project that we will be following closely the implementation of.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u4	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u5	After a first reading in the Assembly in September and then in the Senate in November, the Joint Joint Committee reached an agreement on 5 January on this bill to promote social dialogue with the platforms. I would particularly like to thank its members, whose work has led to an ambitious and balanced text that, in line with the Government's commitment, provides a basis for new rights for platform workers. The text is based on a conviction: collective bargaining is the best method of building social protection adapted to the workers of the platforms. I would remind you that the first objective of the bill is to ratify the April 21 order to allow the emergence of a social dialogue in the mobility platform sector. This ratification is the first stone laid for the construction of a genuine social democracy in the sector. With it, we want to support the development of networking platforms while ensuring that workers who use them are better protected. We also want to build a structured social dialogue between the platforms and their workers in order to give them new rights – relating to minimum remuneration, vocational training, occupational health – while respecting the independence to which many of them are attached. The challenge is therefore also to adapt labour law to new forms of employment; In this respect, the text is part of the continuation of a work of reflection and in-depth consultation, led first by Jean-Yves Frouin and then by Bruno Mettling, which I would like to thank once again. The Order of 21 April provides for the organization of a national election allowing nearly 100,000 workers from the two sectors of activity concerned, i.e. VTC drivers and bicycle delivery operators, to elect their representatives. This election, which will take place from May 9 to 16, will allow them to benefit for the very first time from union representation. Its success is at the heart of the tasks entrusted to the new body for the facilitation of social dialogue, whose creation is also provided for by this ordinance, the Authority for Social Relations of employment platforms. I am particularly pleased to have participated last week in the installation of this authority and the holding of its first board of directors. This is an important first step that marks our desire to see the provisions of the bill that you are called to vote today quickly apply. Beyond the organisation of the elections, this young authority will be responsible for accompanying the new representatives in the success of the first negotiations to be launched. Indeed, ARPE is intended to become a facilitator of social dialogue at the same time as an observatory of developments in the activity of the platform sector. I welcome the significant progress that your two chambers have made on the text, which has been a useful complement to the tasks assigned to that authority. In the bill, he was given new roles: a role of recognition of the organizations representing the platforms and a role of mediation in the event of a dispute between the platforms and the workers' representatives. The enrichment of ARPE's missions will enable it to rapidly increase its credibility and increase its effectiveness. In addition, the work of the Joint Joint Committee has made it possible to clarify and better define the role of expertise assigned to this new public administrative institution. I am confident that these contributions will enable the ARPE to quickly measure its portfolio and to increase its full potential. Beyond these advances, the text opens the way for new legislative provisions that could define the modalities of social dialogue in the sector. It is the whole meaning of Article 2 that asks you to authorize the Government to deepen by order the framework of collective bargaining between the representatives of the platforms and those of their workers. The use of this procedure responds to the need to define the framework for social dialogue before the professional elections are held in May in order to give visibility to the workers of the platforms. On this occasion, I welcome the compromise reached between the two chambers, which managed to reach agreement on the scope of the negotiations. Indeed, the scope chosen will concern dialogue at the level of the mobility platform sector and not dialogue within the platforms themselves. This will enable new rights for workers in the sector to be implemented as quickly as possible. I would also like to welcome the compromise reached on the topics open to collective bargaining: by making the choice to refer their list to future orders, without freezing things in the law, the National Assembly and the Senate once again demonstrate that their work of co-construction is essential in order to develop balanced and useful arrangements. Here too, the contribution of the National Assembly has been decisive and allows room for manoeuvre in the choice of topics in order to respond in the most effective way to the needs of workers. Finally, I welcome the spirit of concord that prevailed between the rapporteurs of the two assemblies on the question of the prices displayed by the platforms and the income received by the workers who use them. The wording used in this text is, again, that of the Mettling report; It makes it possible to integrate into the themes open to collective bargaining the methods of determining workers' incomes. This is an important step forward that will enable the sector to address this essential issue through social dialogue, without prejudging the conclusions that should be drawn from it. Finally, at the time of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I would like to point out that this text has a strong and singular ambition in Europe. The choices advocated at national level show that it is possible to improve the working conditions of platform workers without regulating their status. The European Commission's draft directive on workers on platforms also makes room for collective representation; it fully recognises the role of the workers' representatives of the platforms. Similarly, by its guidelines on competition law, the Commission confirms the possibility for these players to conclude agreements and makes clear the situations in which collective bargaining of self-employed workers is possible under European competition law; It covers in particular the agreements on working conditions concluded between the self-employed and the principals. The progress made by these two draft texts illustrates the complementarity of our approaches. France also welcomes the European Commission's initiatives to strengthen the rights of workers on platforms to algorithmic management. The Commission proposes to strengthen transparency requirements for the use of automated decision-making systems, thus complementing national approaches. The European Commission also proposes to guarantee the right to challenge the decisions taken by these automated systems and to receive a response within a short period of time. The path chosen by France – to create a collective representation of workers – is therefore complementary to the European Commission's proposal, which aims in particular at enhancing the transparency of relations between platforms and their workers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will understand, this compromise text sets the stage for a social dialogue in the mobility platform sector. We can be proud of this because we are convinced that this method will help to build new protections, best meeting the aspirations of the nearly 100,000 self-employed workers concerned. I therefore invite you to endorse the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee and to vote very broadly in favour of this bill, in order to strengthen the real rights of platform workers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u6	In the general debate, Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u7	After the digital age, this is the era of digital platforms. In recent years, we have seen an exponential increase in the number of work platforms and self-employed workers offering their services. These platforms emerged under the combined effect of creating self-entrepreneurship, Internet development and the emergence of specific urban needs. They would be 200,000 VTC drivers or two-wheeled meal delivery machines. This model offers new professional opportunities to many workers, especially those who want to escape the constraints of the wage earner with its fixed schedules. This work may constitute their main activity or provide them with an income supplement. However, these women and men often have a precarious status. They have no social protection, no protection in the event of an accident at work or occupational disease. Most of them are micro-enterprises and do not benefit from the guarantees provided by the Labour Code as regards remuneration or termination of the contract. The purpose of this version of the draft law, which has emerged from discussions in the Joint Joint Committee, is to accompany the development of this new economic model, which is a source of employment, while guaranteeing a basis of rights for the workers concerned. The IDU and independent group obviously shares this objective. In concrete terms, the text lays down the arrangements for the appointment of representatives of self-employed workers using the platforms for their activities and establishes the Authority for Social Relations of Employment Platforms, which is responsible for organising such elections and for authorising the breakdown of the commercial relationship between a platform and a representative of the workers. We welcome any measures to improve the rights and protections of platform workers in the context of collective bargaining. However, with this text, you only lay the foundations and do not deal with the underlying problem. Regarding the creation of the public institution dedicated to the regulation of social relations between platforms and workers, ARPE, we ask you once again about the proliferation of agencies and other state authorities. France has more than 1200 of them! We must stop working in this way: the proliferation of authorities to regulate and regulate is a source of complexity. The black spot of this text is that it does not solve the problem of characterizing the status of workers on these platforms and the link between them. They are regarded as independents, but it must be noted that they are not independents like the others, that they even have independents only the name. The case law is difficult to decide: in a judgment of 4 March 2020, the Court of Cassation held that the status of an independent driver using the Uber platform was fictitious because of the link of subordination to it. It even went further by calling the link between the worker and the platform a contract of employment. This case law was then contradicted by a judgment of the Paris Court of Appeal. It is therefore up to us as legislators to determine the status of workers who use platforms, while it is up to social dialogue to create social rights. At European level, it seems that things are accelerating. On 9 December the European Commission presented a proposal for a Directive on the improvement of working conditions in the framework of work via a platform, which introduces in particular a presumption of wage earners and reverses the burden of proof for these workers when certain criteria are met. We remain attentive to this issue and will take our full part in the discussions. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] For all the reasons mentioned, we consider this text to be a missed act. It does not provide concrete solutions to the problem of the status of self-employed workers using digital platforms for their activities. The IDU and independent group will therefore abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u8	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u9	Before taking a step back by studying what other European countries and the United States are doing, let's make a little detour through history. I like to rediscover, in literature, the permanence of debates that we believe to be new. Indeed, even if every political movement, when it comes to power, believes that it embodies modernity, the debates on economic, social and labour issues are of great permanence. I have seen this about a law that we now jointly defend, after having had differences of opinion, that of 27 March 2017, on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies. A colleague pointed out to me that, in the debates that preceded its adoption, we could almost find word for word the terms of those on the abolition of slavery. On the one hand, in famous 1823 texts, Henri Grégoire, former Member of Parliament for the Constituent, stressed the responsibility of the insurers, charterers and crews of the ships in the slave trade, holding them all as accomplices, until the last seaman. On the other hand, the merchants of the port of Bordeaux, in their pleas, stood up against an abolition that would have signalled the end of an economic model and the end of a world. I note the same permanence in the debates preceding the adoption of the Act of 9 April 1898 concerning liability in industrial accidents. Martin Nadaud, after ten years of legislative struggle, admitted a limitation of the responsibility of the labourers and day labourers of the forges and industries of the time in the accidents at work to which they were subjected – until then, their malice or fatality were called into question. Thanks to such a law, and similar ones adopted by other European countries at the same time – and even in the case of Germany a little in advance – occupational accident funds have been created and preventive campaigns have been carried out to balance them. It is a social revolution, but also a technological one, which has opened up a new era of prosperity. This revolution was based on a very strong political act: the recognition of the principle of the employer's responsibility in the accidents to which their employees were subjected – which were not at the time, they were mainly labourers and day labourers. For all the intellectuals who have observed this revolution of labour law, Martin Nadaud's approach announces the birth of the wage-earner, that is, a relationship marked by both rights and duties. I have a deep feeling that, in this matter, we are in the midst of regression, with the emergence of a new phenomenon, digital capitalism without faith or law. By playing with the boundaries between continents and the constraints of the common law, it can create a system of enslavement, of decadence of norms, with cascade effects. We are all observing on the ground – I am sure you are also attentive to the problem, minister – of subcontracting practices by subcontractors. Indeed, wild subcontracting is permitted by this uberization; Moreover, customers, with consumeristic and, to say the least, casual behaviour, are complicit in it and their responsibility should be mentioned. Today, it is the law that brings us together. The Socialist Group's line is part of the dynamic of the work previously carried out by our colleagues, Senator de Meurthe-et-Moselle Olivier Jacquin and Member of Parliament Boris Vallaud; It's unchanged. These workers must be recognized as employees of the platforms. It's the horizon, it's the future. The strength of law would allow us to do so today. Of course, some, especially on the benches of the Republicans group, have invoked freedom of choice. We are in favour of it, but in clarity. Some workers will want to remain self-employed and we defend this form of work. I know what I'm talking about; I believe in it as well as in entrepreneurship, including when it comes to single-person enterprises. On the other hand, what must be avoided absolutely is the confusion linked to hybrid functioning, where relationships are not clear. The rapporteur, in the report on the original version of the bill, you explicitly state that the fourth objective of the order under section 2 is to "reduce the bundle of clues" whose presence requires the requalification of the service contract into a contract of employment. This is indeed the danger, the poison of the provisions that we are about to adopt. The Socialist Group will oppose this, as it has always done. The horizon is the requalification as a wage earner of the employment relationship targeted or the creation of real entrepreneurial units. Why can't self-employed people be involved in cooperative systems? Social models would allow it. We cannot support this bill, which goes totally against the statements made by Members of your own political movement, who are fighting it at European level. In addition, in the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and elsewhere, all work contributes to the requalification of workers. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In short, what seemed like a small step away from the real horizon, that of requalification and clarification. We will oppose this text and continue the fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u10	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u11	The Action Together Group is pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has reached agreement on this bill, which aims to secure the rights of VTC drivers and two-wheeled delivery operators using digital platforms to operate. As you pointed out, Madam Minister, these workers represent several thousand jobs in France; They are often independent only of the name, as the conditions for carrying out their business depend on the rules laid down by the digital platforms for which they work. They do not in fact choose the customer, the price or the conditions for the performance of the service, and are liable, in the event of breach of the obligations laid down by the platform, to penalties up to the deactivation of their account. This imbalance of power is amplified by the weakness of social dialogue and the fact that these workers do not enjoy the rights and protections related to wage-earning. I have noted the position of our colleague Mr Potier, who wants these workers to be recognised as employees on his own initiative. As for us, we believe that it should be borne in mind that most of them are committed to their independent status, and do not want their commercial contract to be re-qualified as an employment contract; They do not want constraints related to hierarchical relations and want to maintain the freedom to choose their schedule. Some of the platforms, since they wished to make the workers redundant, have encountered recruitment difficulties. While we must respect the desire for independence expressed by the workers of the platforms, it is absolutely necessary to allow them to build collective rights. And social dialogue is the right method, if not the only way to achieve it. The development of these new forms of work, which are based on the use of an algorithm, therefore calls for an adaptation of our legislation to ensure a balanced social dialogue among stakeholders. The first milestones were laid down in 2016 by the El Khomri law, which creates social responsibility for the platforms for their workers and authorizes the formation of trade union organisations. We continued in this dynamic in 2019, with the LOM law – guidance for mobility. Thanks to this, the social responsibility of the platforms has been consolidated and our majority has introduced new rights specific to the VTC and delivery sectors, in favour of greater autonomy of the workers concerned. Finally, the first bricks of a trading space between platforms and self-employed workers were laid by the ordinance of 21 April 2021, which was taken pursuant to article 48 of the LOM and which we are now called upon to ratify. A result of working together with the social partners, it creates a new authority, ARPE, and provides for the organisation of a national vote allowing workers on these platforms to nominate their representatives. The bill invites us to go even further in structuring the social dialogue by enabling the Government to supplement, by order, the rules of the game of negotiation, the tasks of the regulatory authority and the modalities under which sector agreements can be expanded to all platforms. Because it is urgent to give effect to this negotiating framework, an amendment, defended at first reading by our colleague Agnès Firmin Le Bodo, reduced the time allowed to the Government to publish the order from eighteen to twelve months. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the fact that the agreement reached in the CMP goes even further by reducing this deadline to nine months. Similarly, we are pleased that the text of the CMP retains some useful clarifications introduced in the Senate, in particular regarding the topics and periodicity of the negotiations. [[Carole Grandjean, rapporteur, applauds]] Because there can be no second zone workers and because the economy of the platforms cannot overcome social rights, the Group of the European People's Party will vote with conviction in favour of the Joint Joint Committee's conclusions, bearing in mind that this text is not the end of history and that a common framework will probably one day be drawn up at European Union level.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u12	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u13	The Joint Joint Committee, meeting on 5 January, reached agreement on the ratification bill, which aims to strengthen the legal and social framework for activities whose development has not ceased for some ten years. The Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats welcomes this outcome, following a work initiated since the mobility policy law three years ago. The agreement reached in CMP on the subject reflects Parliament's desire to consolidate the regulation of platforms and to ensure the protection of workers who use them. I would like here to welcome the involvement of our rapporteur, Carole Grandjean, in this important text. The unbridled growth in the use of VTC driver applications or two-wheeled food deliveries had somewhat disconcerted the legislator, as the current legislation did not provide a legal and social framework for this ex nihilo ecosystem. However, since 2016, our country has gradually developed a legislative arsenal that allows for the regulation of platforms and the protection of workers who use them. The law of 8 August 2016 on labour, the modernisation of social dialogue and the securing of career paths had laid down the principle of the social responsibility of the platforms towards the self-employed. During the current legislature, the Mobility Orientation Act of 24 December 2019 opened up to all self-employed workers using these platforms a right of access to all data concerning their activities, and introduced a charter defining their rights and obligations, as well as those of the platforms with which they are related. The text brings one more stone to this necessary construction and expected by all the actors. It is not intended to exempt requalifications as a presumption of wage-earning where the conditions for the exercise of professional activity do not meet the criteria establishing the independent nature of the work, but to promote social dialogue so as to guarantee remuneration and working conditions which are both protective and respectful of the independence of employees. At first reading, the majority had the opportunity to enrich the content of the order by incorporating new guarantees of the worker's independence from the platform. I am thinking in particular of the free choice of route or equipment used in the provision of service. In agreement with the Senate, the newly created ARPE will be responsible for regulating the social dialogue between the platforms and workers' representatives, without, however, intervening on their social relations. With regard to the authorization given to the Government to supplement by order the rules organizing the social dialogue – within a time limit which, by compromise, was set at nine months – the legislator wished to clarify that this dialogue would be conducted in three areas: setting the price of benefits; developing professional skills and securing career paths; measures to improve working conditions and the prevention of occupational risks. In addition, the Order will need to specify the terms and conditions for the use of ARPE's technological expertise. These provisions, the adoption of which we can only welcome, have found their source in the conclusions of two parliamentary information reports submitted to the Senate Committee on Social Affairs on 20 May 2020 and to the Committee on European Affairs of the National Assembly on 20 January 2021, respectively. They are also part of a European process of regulating the sector to which the Democratic Movement is proud to contribute. On 16 September, our colleague Sylvie Brunet presented a report to the European Parliament on the working conditions, rights and social protection of platform workers. This report has been followed up as the European Commission presented on 9 December a proposal for a directive with several advances across the Union. On the one hand, it is necessary to define criteria for assessing the employment relationship in such a way as to grant more easily the status of employees and the social protection associated with the workers of the platforms if it is found that this relationship falls within the scope of the wage earner and, on the other hand, to increase the transparency in the use of algorithms and to allow workers to challenge automated decisions. The provisions we are looking at today are therefore an integral part of a more comprehensive reform aimed at building a European foundation of social rights from which platform workers cannot be excluded. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party (MoDEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (ACP) will vote in favour of its adoption for the progress made in the text, as well as for its determination to build a European foundation of social rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u14	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u15	Last Wednesday, the President of the Republic presented to the European Parliament the roadmap of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. One of the axes is to build a new European model of growth, based on "good jobs". Can we say that mobility platform workers are in good jobs? There is room for doubt. On this subject, however, the President hopes for an agreement between States; he promised a social convergence up. As far as the workers on the platforms are concerned, there is a gap – if not a contradiction – between the priorities posted in Strasbourg and the bill we are discussing. Comparing the national approach with recent European developments – I am thinking in particular of the draft directive presented by the European Commission on 9 December – we find that the paths are far from convergent. The text of the directive, which must now be examined by Parliament and the Council, creates a legal presumption of employment relationship between the worker and the platform. More specifically, it defines five criteria by which self-employed persons could be requalified as employees, including the level of remuneration, the imposition of specific rules or the prohibition on working for other services. According to the European Commission, of the 28 million workers on the platforms, more than 4 million are expected to be re-qualified as employees. It is clearly not the Government's approach, which wants to create a framework for dialogue and specific rights, but which draws a less protective model – which is obviously not satisfactory. In California, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and even France, many court decisions require a requalification of VTC delivery or driver contracts into paid employment contracts. They show that in many cases the status of self-employed is a disguised wage earner. I know that some workers appreciate the flexibility of this new form of employment, but let us not close our eyes to the extreme precariousness of these jobs. This precariousness, indisputable, is greatly aggravated by the competition in which they are placed, by the difficult working conditions – taking the road at all times, at all times –, by the tyranny of user notation and by the opacity of algorithms. These workers are not covered by many occupational accidents and do not contribute to unemployment insurance. Where are modernity and progress when the new actors that govern our consumption patterns are sweeping away the most basic social rights? The fight these workers wage for the respect of their rights and the improvement of their working conditions obliges us, as legislators, to assume our responsibilities. I fear that today we will only do so in a minimal manner. The Libertés et territoires group is in fact questioning the reality of the social dialogue that will take place with this text: are we not moving towards an asymmetrical dialogue, which will oppose tentacular platforms to workers who are still insecure? What stability can we hope for this dialogue, even though we know that, on average, a food deliverer stays on a platform for only ten months? The Joint Joint Committee was on the side of the Senate, which considered it hastened the creation of a dialogue within each platform. It is therefore the sectoral dialogue that is privileged. Unfortunately, even though the Senate has tried to clarify the subject matter of mandatory negotiations – particularly with regard to the price of services – there is no mechanism to ensure that their framework will be subject to minimum guarantees. The imbalance between platforms and independents will therefore continue to exist, to the detriment of the latter. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] By proposing a presumption of wage-earning and a reversal of the burden of proof, the European Commission proposes a real paradigm shift. Conversely, this bill maintains the status quo and does not regulate the sector. More serious, it reinforces the current model, since the drafting of the new ordinance makes the choice to limit apparent grounds for requalification into a contract of employment, down the path that is emerging in Europe. This deregulation of labour relations is a slope that the Libertés et territoires group does not wish to borrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u16	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u17	Simon, 21, is a bicycle delivery driver in Vienna. It completes its activity with hours of cleaning. "During the curfews, delivery worked well. [With the household], I was able to earn between 800 and 900 euros [a month] "," he confided to the newspaper La Nouvelle République a few days ago. "But for a few months now, it's getting complicated. " In one day I sometimes find it hard to make 20 or 30 euros. " Since last March, he has been a union member of the CGT to "change things" on its scale. His claims: "To be employed, to be paid in normal hours and not at the order, to have leave, to contribute for retirement... " Not to mention the return of the rain premium, "repealed six months ago". [...] If he repeats that he loves this profession and "client contact", he gladly concedes: "We survive more than we live. [...] I am close to writing a letter to the President telling him that our working conditions are lamentable. The platform thinks we're slaves. " » He won't have to write to the president. He knows about it, but he doesn't hear it from that ear. As the first VRP of the digital platforms, he instructed his government to go back to the demands of many of these workers, the proposals of the European Commission and social progress in general by having this bill approved. By establishing a framework of supposed collective bargaining between representatives of VTC and delivery platforms and those of workers in these sectors, the Government and the majority are becoming ardent, and now alone – they are in any case very isolated in Europe – defenders of the third status. In this way, they institutionalize uberization, a model that fraudulently uses the status of self-employed to overexploit workers. Faithful in this to the principles that guided your labour reform, you prefer to refer working conditions to collective bargaining rather than to set them by law. Instead of dispelling the legal uncertainty surrounding these relationships, you give the platforms scope to develop these standards to their advantage. In such negotiations, the balance of power is still uneven between employers and workers, but this is even more true for platform-related self-employed people, as their situation is precarious. In the long run, it is a third-party self-employed status, with certain rights and protections related to wage-earnership, that you want to create. At present, these workers are required, from a certain threshold, to join the social security scheme of the self-employed, which does not cover the risk of accidents at work, loss of activity or supplementary health care. This diet is also subject to repeated malfunctions. The situation of the self-employed calls for attention to be paid to the development of precarious work, to the detriment of the stable social model of wage-earning. In 2017, 87% of contracts signed were CSDs, therefore precarious; 30% of CSDs last only one day. It is a social regression: it is not the project of society that we defend, but it seems that it is yours. You proposed this bill almost as the European Parliament voted in favour of a presumption of wage-earning for platform workers, thanks to the fierce struggle of some MEPs, including Leïla Chaibi, a member of the management of La France insoumé. However, the report drafted on this occasion was co-signed by MEP Sylvie Brunet, who sits in your own group in Strasbourg. In December the Commission presented a directive incorporating this proposal. For the more than 4 million workers on the platforms in Europe, this will be a huge improvement in their working conditions, although this should be seen as a mere catch-up. In France, it is almost 200,000 workers that you want to maintain in a situation of extreme dependence: the platform reigns in control, fixes and modifies prices, the pace of work, the sanctions, without recourse possible for the workers, who bear all the costs and all the risks but do not enjoy any protection. In this sector, the precariousness is great. In November 2020, Patrice Blanc, then president of the Restos du coeur, who saw others, confided to the microphone of France Inter that it had been upset to have seen the arrival in the queues of the association in recent months, of Uber Eats deliverymen, in working clothes, who came between two races to pick up meals: they deliver, but not the means to pay for them. This situation is the result of an abuse of self-employed status, which this text, in pretending to protect workers, will only facilitate. You go back to the recommendations of the reports – notably that of Jean-Yves Frouin – which favour the presumption of wage earners. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] These are some of the reasons why we remain opposed to your text and will vote against it. Once in power, we intend to establish a presumption of wage-earning in order to protect these workers in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u18	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u19	Leila is a bike delivery girl, her first reflex when getting up in the morning is to watch her smartphone, on which she depends to work. You will be able to get to know him in the documentary "Working on Demand", recently broadcast on Arte, which could have been entitled "Back to the Future 4". Every day, Leila travels the streets to deliver hot meals hoping, as she says, to earn at least 10 euros an hour. We see her regularly waiting, waiting, waiting a long time in front of the restaurants to pick up the customers' orders. But this time is not remunerated, because platforms only pay for the race, relying on a complex algorithm, which escapes all control and discussion, and prevents a decent remuneration. In addition, the risks of the trade are understood when she relates to the fatal accident suffered by her friend Mourad in March 2020. These false independents assume all the risks and often have to make sure themselves to cope with the hazards of their activity. The film describes the extension of this model in many areas of the economy and the worrying situation of the people concerned, which will be 500 million worldwide by 2025. Under the guise of modernity, this is a major social regression. Uberization causes significant damage to the lives of many workers and the world of work. The use of digital to develop low-cost work is not good news, as the model is not sustainable. This form of employment has the appearance of independence and modernity, but the taste of disillusionment and the past. As Dominique Potier pointed out, there is a return to work. In force in industry in the 19th century, it uses bodies and minds, is poorly paid and lacks a social safety net. These are trades that are neither respected nor recognized. The platforms, whose growth accelerates with the health crisis, sell us dreams: meals delivered more and more quickly, trips made at competitive prices. But the dream ends there, if it's a dream. Because the platform economy, the leading edge of financialization, is based entirely on social dumping. Rarely profitable, platforms provide a means for a company to clear almost all social responsibility, to circumvent the rules of the labour code and social protection, by remaining prescriptive to work. They benefit in some way from the advantages of subordination, historically attached to wage-earning, without having the constraints: no minimum wage, no paid leave, no legal working time, no remuneration for night work, no liability for accidents at work. The platform model is no more economically viable than it is socially sustainable. It requires a massive injection of capital and bets on the acquisition of a dominant position, or even a monopoly, and then dictates its laws to the market. After twelve years of existence, Uber is valued at billions of dollars, but still has no profits. Capitalism is reinventing itself, at worst. However, the model of supply-demand linkage platforms is increasingly swarming where it was not expected, threatening jobs, pulling wages down and degrading working conditions. That's the law of the market, tenfold. It is therefore urgent to regulate this area and to regain power over the algorithms which serve, in particular, as the direction of human resources. Platform workers are mobilizing. Everywhere, the courts multiply decisions to whistle at the end of the game and recognize them as employees. Under the leadership of Communist Labour Minister Yolanda Diaz, Spain has recently enacted legislation that allows for the requalification of wages. The European Commission has just presented a directive to put an end to the "far-west digital", but it has clearly not been placed on the agenda of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is in this context that we are considering an anachronistic and ill-tangled bill, which meets the opposition of the majority of trade union organizations. This text tends to introduce a semblance of social dialogue, but it is mainly aimed at circumventing the labour code and the guarantees attached to it. After an initial attempt to leave it to the platforms to issue social charters depending on their voluntary commitment, the Government is once again demonstrating this, leaving these workers in a precarious status quo. By your successive renunciations, you encourage social dumping. It is not the workers of the platforms that you come to support, but the platforms themselves, with the third status that was discussed. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono smiles]] [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] The best thing to do would be to get back in your DeLorean and stop causing spatio-temporal faults. The GDR Group will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u20	On the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Dominique Da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u21	On 5 January, the Joint Joint Committee meeting to discuss the draft law on the representation of self-employed workers using platforms reached an agreement. On behalf of the La République on the move, I welcome this conclusion, which owes a great deal to the two rapporteurs, our colleague Carole Grandjean and Senator Frédérique Puissat, whose work I welcome. It should be remembered that the aim is to strengthen the rights of self-employed workers who use mobility platforms. French law, which we seek to preserve, recognizes only two statuses of worker: that of employee and that of self-employed. The latter exists because workers want to be self-employed in their work. They therefore do not want the creation of a presumption of wage-earning, but have deliberately chosen to be independent in an economic context in which many offers of paid employment are to be filled in the transport sector. At the same time, we must recognize the role that platforms play in the economy and in our daily lives. They also create new jobs because they respond to new patterns of consumption. It should also be borne in mind that they also help to enter the labour market for many people who find it difficult to gain access to employment. In response to those who advocate wage-earning for platform workers, I would like to come back to the case of Spain, which is often referred to here and in committee. The presumption of wage-earning recently adopted in our Spanish neighbours has had many effects on delivery platforms. Workers have a choice. They can become employees of an intermediary agency to be made available to platforms, like Uber Eats – don't dislike some, so this is not the end of uberization. They can also remain independent, as with the Spanish Glovo platform, which allows workers the freedom to choose their schedules and set the margin on the price of the service, so that they compete with each other. Do we really want to offer such solutions to the self-employed in our country? I don't think so. Social dialogue is the only instrument that can provide workers with better working conditions. This is the very essence of this text, whose section 1 aims to ratify the ordinance of 21 April 2021, taken on the basis of section 48 of the LOM Act. The Joint Joint Committee has adopted provisions to clarify and secure the text. In Article 1, the tasks of the ARPE have been limited to regulating the only social dialogue between platforms and workers, and no longer concern social relations as a whole. In addition, the presence of parliamentarians on the Board of Directors is no longer mentioned. In Article 2, the enabling elements relating to the organisation of a social dialogue at each platform have been deleted. Of course, there is still a long way to go, as these collective bargaining negotiations are only opening, but this bill will really improve the working conditions of the independents of the delivery platforms. The La République en marche group will of course vote for the text of the CMP, which illustrates Parliament's ability to carry out high-quality work in the service of the self-employed. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the other hand, Madam Minister, I welcome the Government's line: with this progress, it adds an additional stone to the building that we have been building for five years to support the creation and growth of businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u22	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u23	The National Assembly and the Senate, meeting in a joint joint committee, have reached agreement on this bill, which aims to establish a social dialogue between self-employed workers and delivery platforms and passenger vehicles with drivers. The Republican Group attaches as much importance to social dialogue as to entrepreneurship. We are first and foremost committed to entrepreneurship and self-employment: we support the freedom to undertake, and wish to give everyone the opportunity to develop their small business. If a young man has an idea, you have to give him a chance to get started. Valuing work means valuing all the forms it can take. While some advocate only wage earners and want to put all workers in one box, we are on the contrary for diversity. Admittedly, it is necessary to defend the status of employee, which corresponds to the needs of a large majority of the population. France, for example, had more than 25 million employees in 2020. But there is also a need to support and develop self-employment, which involves more than 3 million workers. Secondly, we are committed to social dialogue. The Republican right has always worked to develop it. For example, Madam Minister, article L. 1 of the Labour Code, which obliges the Government to carry out a consultation prior to any reform project with the social partners, was introduced by the Larcher Act of 2007. Its parliamentary counterpart, the Accoyer Protocol, was developed by Bernard Accoyer. From this perspective, we can satisfy ourselves with certain provisions of this bill, including those relating to the establishment of a representation of the self-employed on platforms through professional organizations and trade unions. On the other hand, we were opposed from the first reading to the process of stateization of social dialogue, which is the creation, in Article 1, of a public institution – one more! – referred to as the Employment Platforms Social Relations Authority. Similarly, we were opposed to clause 2, which provides for the use of an umpteenth order: for all these reasons, we voted against the bill as a whole. Although we regret the conditions of employment of certain self-employed persons in the sectors in question, we are convinced that improving their working conditions will require a strengthened social dialogue between the platforms and the self-employed. Moreover, the situation is not the same, depending on whether they work in the passenger vehicles sector with a driver or in the delivery sector, including meals. In the first case, it is up to independent carriers – who choose to work with certain platforms or not – to organize themselves in order to be heard. This is not the case with the delivery of meals, which often includes disguised wage earners and particularly difficult working conditions. In addition, people hired most often do not have a common place of work and find it difficult to organize themselves to be heard. Without calling into question their independent status or autonomy, we are in favour of the development of their rights, particularly in the field of social protection and the prevention of accidents at work. Thus, the details on the topics and the periodicity of collective bargaining are in the right direction. It will have to deal with the ways in which incomes are determined, the development of professional skills, the securing of career paths and the long-awaited improvement of working conditions. The examination of the text in the Senate allowed for a review of certain provisions, which was confirmed by the Joint Joint Committee. Thus, ARPE will be refocused on its mission of regulating social dialogue: it will not be responsible for regulating social relations between platforms and independents. In addition, the CMP maintained the removal, at the initiative of the Senate, of the power to legislate by order to organize social dialogue at the level of each platform. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Despite these advances, which we owe to the Senate and to a fruitful collaboration between our two chambers, our group is still not in favour of the establishment of a public institution, nor of the possible future supervision of social dialogue by the State – especially in view of the extent to which the Government has abused this dialogue, particularly with regard to the reform of pensions and the abolition of the autonomous funds. For these reasons, the Republicans Group will abstain from this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u24	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u25	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u26	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u27	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 86 Number of votes cast 72 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 65 Against 7
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u28	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate, ratifying the orders made on the basis of Article 13 of Act No. 2019-816 of 2 August 2019 on the competences of the European Community of Alsace (No. 4689, 4894).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u29	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u30	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, Minister Delegate for Transport. As a local Alsatian elected and former president of the Haut-Rhin departmental council, I worked alongside all the parliamentarians and Alsatian elected officials to create the CEA, the European community of Alsace, as a prelude to the institutional renaissance of the region. The bill we are considering today is intended to ratify the orders made on the basis of the Act on the competences of the European Community of Alsace. The history of France – its strength – is its territories, with their diversity and identities. In 2017, the President of the Republic and the Government took into account the need for Alsace, which was expressed during the previous quinquennium following the creation of the major regions. With the adoption of the "Alsace" law, the Government was able to create a framework of trust. I would like to thank the work done by Jacqueline Gourault and all elected officials to carry out this important reform. In responding to this desire of Alsace, the President of the Republic, the Government and parliamentarians listened to the inhabitants of the region. Alsace thus becomes an example of differentiation for all territories. Taking into account the particular geographical situation of the region, the law "Alsace" transferred to the CEA the management and operation of national roads and unlicensed motorways. This will allow the community to raise specific contributions on the road transport of goods in transit. The orders that the Government is proposing to ratify are the result of long months of exchanges and consultations: the challenge is to equip ECA with the tools necessary to enable it to assume its new competence in good conditions, with a view to regulating the flow of goods by road. One of these orders, which has been the subject of close cooperation between the State authorities and all partners, gives ECA the possibility to levy a tax on the road transport of goods passing through certain routes in its public road domain. The State proposes the framework, with ECA remaining in control of the parameters and application of the tax: this is the subject of Article 1. The aim is to control road traffic and to limit the nuisances caused by the transit traffic of heavy goods vehicles, which has moved to Alsace since the introduction of the so-called LKW-Maut tax on the German side. The Alsatians had been waiting for this measure for more than fifteen years. The Ordinance, the ratification of which is provided for in Article 2, specifies and supplements the provisions relating to the transfer of unlicensed national roads. Finally, the order, whose Article 3 provides for ratification, specifies the conditions under which the CEA or the Strasbourg Eurometropole continue to ensure the State's commitment to the roads transferred to them. This bill is based on three principles: dialogue, trust in territories, and differentiation. Dialogue, first of all, was conducted between the Government and the elected representatives during the establishment of ECA, as well as during the drafting of the ordinances; It is also reflected in the establishment of a forum for consultation between ECA, communities and users. Secondly, by entrusting the European community of Alsace with the application of the ordinances, the Government again demonstrates its confidence in the territories. Finally, this text is an illustration of the right to differentiation offered to the latter; This leaves considerable room for manoeuvre to the community, particularly on the modalities of taxation. I would like to point out that several improvements to the text have been made by the parliamentary shuttle, including the establishment of a community-to-community committee on heavy-duty taxation. I thank the rapporteur for the hand-sewn work he has provided, in constant connection with the ECA, in order to submit a version in line with each other's expectations. I would also like to thank the chairman and all the members of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning for the work done. The Government supports this version of the text. I know that this opinion is shared by the elected representatives of the European Community of Alsace. Some technical or editorial changes are necessary to refine the text: this is the meaning of the rapporteur's amendments. But we have achieved a valuable balance that respects the free administration of local communities and the will of the Alsatian elected representatives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This text is both an outcome and a beginning. An outcome for ECA that will be able to fully exercise this new competence. A start, because it will be up to him to take full advantage of this new legal framework, once adopted, to introduce the heavyweight tax within a maximum of six years and thus definitively meet the expectations of the Alsatians.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u31	Mr Vincent Thiébaut, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u32	This bill must bring to fruition a project much awaited by the Alsatian population and its local elected representatives. This expectation dates back to the introduction in 2005 of a tax on heavy goods vehicles using the German road network, which has led to delays in traffic on the Alsatian roads, leading to their saturation, particularly at peak times. In 2006, a law was passed to allow the testing of a heavy goods vehicle tax using the Alsatian road network. However, the scheme has never been introduced. A generalisation to the whole of France was then planned – I am of course referring to the famous ecotax – but the scheme was abolished by the law of 29 December 2016. As a result, it took almost 15 years to develop a mechanism to regulate road transport on Alsatian roads. Thanks to the government of Édouard Philippe – notably the Minister for the Cohesion of Territories and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities, Jacqueline Gourault – and on the initiative of President Emmanuel Macron, Alsace, together with the CEA, has regained an institutional outline and has been endowed with powers that even the former region did not have, with in particular the transfer of the entire ownership of unlicensed roads and motorways, classified in the national public road domain and located on its territory. The law of 2 August 2019 also provided for the transfer to the Strasbourg Eurometropole of similar roads and motorways located in its territory. It had finally authorized the Government to issue a series of ordinances to supplement the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u33	This bill therefore seeks to ratify these orders made on the basis of the law of August 2019, in particular the order of 26 May 2021 which sets the framework for the tax on heavy goods vehicles that the European community of Alsace will be able to introduce. It's not an anecdotal subject. Alsace should serve as an example for regions that will seize the opportunities offered by Article 137 of the Law of 22 August 2021 on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects in order to introduce a similar tax. That is why I am pleased that the Senate has enriched the text. Thus, the Committee on Sustainable Development adopted without amendment Article 1a which allows the European Community of Alsace to modulate the kilometric rates of the tax according to the seasons; Article 1h which increases increases for late payment when large sums are due; Article 1terdecies, which increases the amount of fines imposed in the event of manipulation intended to evade the payment of the tax on embedded electronic equipment or falsification of the documents necessary to determine the Euro vehicle category or class of issue; Article 1f(A) which extends consultation prior to the introduction of the tax to companies giving orders. During the examination in committee, we also adopted a series of particularly useful and welcome amendments on certain articles in order to make the mechanism as suitable as possible. Thus, Article 1 octodecies establishes a committee to facilitate the consultation between all the territorial authorities of the European Community of Alsace and with the neighbouring territorial authorities. The article 1st sexies allows the European community of Alsace to use ticketing, an alternative solution to that of the tolling device, which allows occasional users of the network to buy a traffic ticket in advance. Article 4 sets out the procedures for sanctioning and controlling the prohibition of the movement of road freight transport vehicles in transit on certain roads in the Strasbourg Eurometropolis. The Commission rewritten the article, retaining the principle of automated control while removing the most detailed provisions governing the device, modelled on those applicable to automated control in areas with low mobility emissions. These could not be applied automatically in the present case. In addition, the Commission has deleted or amended the provisions which it no longer considered appropriate in legal or political terms. This was the case with Article 1aA, which allows the tax to be applied as soon as the total laden weight of the vehicle is greater than or equal to 2.5 tonnes. Indeed, this article anticipated the possible revision of the Eurovignette Directive, which is not desirable from the point of view of the legibility of the law and the quality of the standard. But above all, it would severely penalize local artisans who use light commercial vehicles. The Commission also removed section 1 of the Code, which applied to the tax provided for in the Order of 26 May 2021 the provisions relating to the conditions for the introduction of automatic control devices introduced by the LOM Act for the application of low-emission mobility zones. The Ordinance of 26 May 2021 already provides for the use of an automatic control device. The Commission has amended Article 1 quaterdecies on recidivism by retaining the principle of an increase in the fine, while abolishing the six-month prison sentence which we considered to be largely excessive. If the scheme is to guarantee the payment of the tax by companies, there must be no risk of imprisonment for drivers. Finally, with a view to improving the legal quality of the Order of 26 May 2021, the Commission adopted Articles 1b A and 1b B. The first is to amend Article 41 of the Ordinance of 26 May 2021 to clarify that the European Community of Alsace may apply the procedure of taxation of its own motion regardless of the method of finding the irregularity – whether or not the control is carried out by a natural person. The second seeks to amend Article 44 of the Ordinance of 26 May 2021 in order to enable the European Community of Alsace to determine the amount of the file costs in the event of the implementation of the ex officio tax procedure. In order to complete the work of securing legal certainty and improving the text resulting from the committee, I will propose that you adopt a series of editorial amendments as well as amendments improving the drafting of the article on the report on the application of the tax. This will allow it to be published more quickly and to understand more elements. I thank all those who have worked with me to develop, enrich and legally secure the text, including the services of the National Assembly and all the people we have interviewed. I thank the European community in Alsace, which has made a major contribution to securing the text and has validated the arrangements that we have put in place; the senators who participated and who, informed of the project, validated all the proposals we have made; the Government for its ability to listen. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This text tends to give the European Community of Alsace the capacity to apply a system of traffic regulation. After the Senate vote, which I hope will be in conformity, it will be up to the CEA to act. It will have all the necessary means and tools to work on its road network for the benefit of the Alsatian population.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u34	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u35	The ratification bill that we are considering today is our majority's solution to an Alsatian problem that has lasted too long. Since 2005, Germany has introduced a tax on heavy goods vehicles over 12 tonnes, leading to a significant carry-over of traffic on Alsatian roads and motorways. Let us say, this situation has become difficult for citizens and local elected representatives to live in. The order whose ratification is proposed responds to this border peculiarity by allowing the European community of Alsace, created in 2019, to introduce over the next six years a specific contribution – a tax – on the road transport of goods using certain roads in the public road domain. In order to take into account the specificities of the region, we have taken the time to consult with local elected officials. This text is therefore the result of co-construction work with the European community of Alsace. As you have understood, the ordinances are part of a dynamic of deconcentration and differentiation of the powers of the territorial authorities engaged since the beginning of the mandate. Indeed, we give the European community of Alsace wide scope for manoeuvre: vehicles and networks concerned; modulation, increase, reduction or exemption of the contribution are all parameters on which it can play. This important latitude will allow it to adapt the device to make it closer to local issues. The introduction of this contribution by the European Community of Alsace is a first step. This will certainly pave the way for other communities wishing to engage in this process, in a dialogue with the various stakeholders. Indeed, article 137 of the "climate and resilience" law, adopted in 2021, authorizes the Government to take by order any measure falling within the scope of the law allowing the voluntary regions – I insist on the term – to introduce, from 1 January 2024, specific contributions on the road transport of goods. Back from the vertical approach of introducing ecotaxes under previous legislatures, which has resulted in a failure, our majority engages, without dogmatism and thanks to the relay of the regions, in a concrete ecology of everyday life. Several regions, including Île-de-France, could thus follow the example of the European community of Alsace by introducing in turn a contribution on road freight transport. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Colleagues, together, encourage this dynamic and let us accompany change by leaving no one behind. That is how we can promote the sustainable development and development of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u36	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u37	I note with great pleasure that many Alsatians are present on all the benches of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u38	Not just!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u39	The law establishing the European Community of Alsace, promulgated in August 2019, organized the merger of the two departmental councils of Haut-Rhin and Bas-Rhin and transferred certain competences to them, the definition of which is not so obvious in view of the application of the law of the local authorities. It also provided for the transfer of some infrastructure, including roads, but without sufficient resources. If one remembers the state in which the RN66 and some of its intersections were then, for example, one realizes that the means necessary for the operation of these infrastructures have not been properly transferred to the European community of Alsace. The Government was undoubtedly counting on the future tax on the transit of heavy goods vehicles to finance it. It's a calculation that I want to denounce. Indeed, this tax is not intended to finance infrastructure: it must first be thought of as a tool for traffic management and regulation, designed to address the particular problem posed by the congestion of the Rhine track following the introduction of the LKW-Maut, a German road transit tax, in the early 2000s. The desire to introduce an Alsatian traffic control tool is old but has given rise to a chaotic path. It was in 2005, just after the introduction of the German tax, that our former colleague Yves Bur had an amendment adopted by the National Assembly on the subject. Subsequently, the idea of introducing such a tax in Alsace flourished within the Government and the departments of the Ministry responsible for transport. It was eventually idealised, the tax being finally considered as such a powerful tool that it could be generalized to France as a whole. Ségolène Royal will work with the success we know, causing the movement of red cups in Brittany. Alsace has therefore witnessed the abandonment of this long-awaited means of traffic management on its north-south axis. If I make this reminder, it is because I find once again that even before the Alsatian experiment is conducted and the ordinances ratified, we are talking about generalizing the heavyweight tax. But we do not want to generalise it. In our view, this tax is a simple traffic management tool capable of solving the problem encountered in the Rhine furrow. Other concerns, such as the willingness to collect new tax revenues, should not once again prevent Alsace from making use of them. I'll take special care of it. If it is particularly relevant to start with Alsace, it is in particular that transfers of skills have already been experienced there, and then to be generalized – I am thinking of regional express transport (TER), for example, or learning. It therefore seems to me important to stick to this framework, without expanding too much, at first. Moreover, the Government's intention in 2019 was to legislate within certain limits by entrusting to the European community of Alsace this specific competence. If he was ready at the time for Alsace to come out of the Grand Est region, he had only to endorse it then, since we had the right legislative vector and we were ready to fight, rather than to launch, at low noise, semblances of promises at the end of the regional elections. Today, it is important that we can move forward on this text in order to create an eco-tax, while remaining vigilant about the risks that we pose, in particular to the Alsatian road hauliers, since, unfortunately, in 2019, the Government did not want to entrust economic powers to the European community of Alsace, which would have allowed us to walk on two legs and to support the Alsatian carriers at the same time that we were putting this traffic management tool in place. This was not the government's will in 2019. This may still change, but today the reality of the European community of Alsace is the one I have described. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The Group of the Republicans will therefore support this text without reservation, provided that it is limited to Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u41	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u42	The MODEM Group will vote for this text, of which the Minister and the rapporteur have spoken very well. For my part, I would like to refer to what is behind it. In our political history, we have experienced several waves of decentralization, with Gaston Defferre, Édouard Balladur or Jean-Pierre Raffarin. Each time, it was a massive decentralization, no doubt necessary, but, at the end of the day, it was rather jacobine since it was decided from Paris what would apply uniformly to all territories. It is likely that, under the next legislature, regardless of the elected representatives who sit, a new wave of decentralization will need to be considered. In my personal capacity, I am in favour of this, if only on two specific points. First of all, I think that in terms of employment, the territories are better able to match supply and demand, and that local and regional authorities should therefore be transferred to manage the operational structures of the employment centre. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] I also think that a single territorial bloc, resulting from the merger of regions and departments, would be better than our territorial thousand-sheet. I say this as an Alsatian: between French-style jacobinism and the German federal state, there is probably a middle ground to invent, perhaps in the form of Länder and French, that is, territorial blocks with redefined contours, with more skills and a power comparable to that of the German Länder. But that's not what this is about. This is another way, which is called differentiation, and which allows, beyond these great reflections on the decentralisation which I leave to our successors in this House, to take concrete action, from now on. It is on this idea that the ECA is based on the idea that our territories have specificities and that, when they take charge of their destiny, the legislator can accompany them in the exercise of the new responsibilities entrusted to them. This idea is embodied in subjects such as the heavyweight tax, which, in its time, has covered the chronicle and is now at the point of meeting that the law on the European community of Alsace had laid down. I would like to address our colleagues, who are elected territorially, particularly in Alsace, to tell them the responsibility they have to live and to take full responsibility for the new responsibilities entrusted to them. Whether it is on the teaching of the "language of the neighbour" and the setting up of ad hoc strategic committees, on the cross-border fact – which involves as much the Greater East region as the European community of Alsace – or on the heavy goods tax, they have in their hands the success of the law on the European community of Alsace, because it is up to them to apply it in its most concrete aspects, including the one we are talking about today. [[Same movements]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The MODEM Group will vote massively for this text. I hope that it will be widely adopted and that our elected territorial colleagues will hear my message: it is up to them to take back the torch of new responsibilities that the legislator has entrusted to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u43	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u44	We are gathered to ratify orders stemming from the autonomy granted to the European community of Alsace in the management and regulation of road infrastructure. We could, with candour, enthusiastically welcome a mechanism of decentralization, a promise of universal happiness. You will understand that after having reread with emotion the declaration of love that I had made to our Alsatian neighbours, brothers and friends during the vote on the law on the European community of Alsace,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u45	Did you vote in favour?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u46	... after reminding us of the deep attachment that binds us, I would say that this law is more of a "crazy" project than a real laboratory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u47	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u48	Gribouille, because you did not then think about the consequences of what you were implementing in Alsace. You have, we have – Alsatians or not – few excuses for that. It took fifteen years to find the parade to set up a German tax, which massively deported the traffic to the Rhine furrow when, from the start, your Lorrain neighbors had warned you of the consequences that your solution would have on the Lorrain furrow: what you suffered from Germany, mechanically, the Lorrain furrow will suffer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u49	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u50	I see it as a form of unequal treatment. In fact, not only does Lorraine, where nearly 100,000 people transit north of Metz, to Luxembourg and Germany, have cross-border traffic equivalent to, if not greater than, that of Alsace, but the installation of a tax in Alsace will only make things worse. At a minimum, it is on the scale of the Great East and taking into account the north-south flows that cross the region that we should have dealt with this issue...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u51	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u52	It was quite possible, and we did not fail to mobilize to warn you. I will denounce three misconceptions that have settled in the minds. The first is that it is only necessary to consider German and Alsatian traffic, geographically very close to each other. In reality, if we extend the perimeter to the main routes which structure international traffic, between Frankfurt, Dijon and Lyon, i.e. along the Rhodanian furrow, it appears that traffic is comparable in Alsace and Lorraine and that a difference in pricing could lead to a deportation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u53	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u54	The second is to rely on a modal report on the Rhine, which is particularly well equipped, by considering a pipeline of the Moselle and a modernisation of the railway network. All the studies of the Centre for Studies and Expertise on Risks, the Environment, Mobility and Planning (CEREMA), including the most optimistic ones including the unification of the Lorrain ports, have demonstrated this: by 2030, we cannot avoid a rise in traffic that will cause saturation phenomena – in which I obviously include the problem of greenhouse gases and related public health issues. Finally, to all those who believe that Lorraine has only to do like Alsace, I will reply that we do not have the same legal framework and that, even if we were to rely on the provisions laid down in the draft law on differentiation, decentralisation, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (3DS), the Lorrain furrow would be five years late on the Rhine furrow, which is an unbearable gap. If we have worked to amend the text in the Senate, we need to know how to take advantage of some lessons – I say that with humility because I belong to the majority who, in 2013, proved unable to find an effective solution. Alsatian experimentation cannot be conceived without being part of a coherent national and international spatial planning. It is imperative that a blueprint, chronology and new means be developed for innovation. It is also necessary – and this will be the subject of one of our amendments – for this new tax to develop the modal alternative. Indeed, beyond competition between our territories, it is about the survival of our planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u55	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u56	I have one thing in common with Raphaël Schellenberger: we were both born on February 14. Unlike him, however, I was there in 2004 to vote for Yves Bur's amendment on the Alsatian ecotax. And since he took a few freedoms with history, I'm going to put things in perspective. The idea came at the time of Adrien Zeller, president of the Alsace Regional Council, who wanted to respond to the delay in traffic caused by the introduction of taxation on the German network. The Alsatian tax, which was due to enter into force in 2007, has unfortunately been lost in the way of the administration, in particular because of the question of the beneficiary of the money. In 2009, the principle of an ecotax applicable to the whole national territory was voted, almost unanimously, in the context of the Grenelle de l'Environnement – desired by Nicolas Sarkozy, my dear Raphaël. Its implementation was initially scheduled for 2010 but that year, Dominique Bussereau, then Secretary of State for Transport, announced that she would first be experienced in Alsace, at the beginning of 2012. An Alsatian collective comprising road hauliers, MEDEF (Movement des entreprises de France), farmers and artisans consider it unfair and discriminatory – proof that nothing is less easy than to apply this type of device. In 2011, the justice system cancels the call for tenders won by the Italian Autostrade, and the implementation is now announced for March 2013, but the change of majority in 2012 beats the cards and the socialist majority changes the system in depth: the new version pays us the red cups in Brittany, the government hesitates, tergiverses, recedes, tries to develop the project and, of war weary, announces its suspension sine die, in October 2014. The expected resources of this tax – which, I say, had to go to AFITF, the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France, to finance the modal carry-over – will be replaced by an increase in diesel taxation. The abandonment of this tax will cost the State EUR 1 billion for the benefit of Ecomov, and projects such as the Seine-Nord Europe Canal are still waiting for their financing. In February 2017 the Court of Auditors found this to be a strategic failure and costly abandonment, and concluded that the abandonment of the heavy-duty eco-tax was a waste. Perhaps today's session could be, with a wink at Proust, a search for lost time. I wish, at least, that we could put this question back on the agenda. First of all, of course, because it is a local Alsatian demand, but also because, as Adrien Zeller wanted in his time, Alsace can be, for the entire national territory, a laboratory for experimenting with new solutions in order to measure the advantages, as we wish, but also the disadvantages, of which Dominique Potier has quoted a number – and, in fact, we must hear what our Lorrain neighbours say. This experiment will be made even easier by the fact that today we have a coherent road network, with the western bypass of Strasbourg, which makes it possible to channel truck flows much better than before. I am also pleased that, as the rapporteur has pointed out, various amendments and amendments to the text can facilitate this experiment – I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the concept of tonnage, as well as the planned system of dialogue. At the time, as I recalled, some operators were not very happy to participate in this experiment. The feedback will be important and will have to be analysed closely, with regard to the modal shift and the postponement of traffic to neighbouring geographical areas, the regulation of traffic, about which I have some doubts, and the general economy of this device. I am convinced that, in the legislation that we will be voting for in this Parliament, whether it is the general decarbonisation of the economy or the changes that we have seen during the covid crisis, in terms of consumption patterns and traffic flows, we will have to learn all the lessons and, why not? Once again at national level the idea of taxation of the means of transport of goods. [[The president of the committee and the rapporteur applaud]] I hope, in any case, that this will succeed. If this is not the case, we will be reduced, like the Academy of Caesars, to judging that the best scenario is that of lost illusions, which I do not wish.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u57	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u58	When our roads are unusable because they are congested by transit traffic and are degraded by an overuse of opportunity, it is necessary to react, especially since road traffic, which is a source of noise and air pollution, is not without consequences for the health of people living nearby. This bill is part of the revision of a European directive to find pragmatic local solutions to restore some kind of fiscal and social justice. It is also the concept of Europe that our IDU and Independent Group defends: a strong Europe that protects and supports the Member States. This bill also responds to an old request from our elected colleagues from Alsace for the exercise of their competence in the management of infrastructure and road transport. It is part of the logical continuation of the creation, on 1 January 2021, of the European community of Alsace, which is now the leader of cross-border cooperation on its perimeter and which manages the national road network not granted. It is therefore legitimate that this new community should be provided with legal and fiscal means to enable it to carry out its tasks fully. As has been pointed out several times, since 2005 and the introduction by Germany of a kilometric tax for heavy goods vehicles of more than 12 tonnes, the Alsatian territory finds and undergoes a significant carry-over of road traffic from German roads. Certain axes of the Rhine furrow are thus particularly congested, with traffic of more than 15% of heavy goods vehicles. Given the long-term unsustainable nature of this traffic, both for infrastructure and for people, legal measures should be taken to restore balance. The main challenge of the text, which proposes to ratify three ordinances that came into force in May 2021, is therefore to equip this community with the tools necessary to be able to assume its new jurisdiction under good conditions in order to regulate the flow of road freight. Article 1er now gives it the possibility to introduce a tax on the road transport of goods using certain roads in the public road domain of the European Community of Alsace. The mechanism of differentiating the kilometric rates according to the level of carbon dioxide emissions, as well as the seasons, will lead to a targeted tax, which is much fairer. This tax is both useful, since it makes it possible to raise funds for the repair and maintenance of roads, and ecologically, since it makes it possible to restrict a major source of pollution. Indeed, despite all its efforts, road transport alone still generates 33% of CO emissions in France and is therefore the means of transport that releases the most CO into the atmosphere, actively participating in global warming. Taxing in order to reduce traffic thus makes it possible to mobilise the country in favour of the climate emergency, of which we must all be actors. Finally, I very much like the idea raised by Mr Herth that this is an experiment. It is a good logic to see if we can spread this idea on other territories. It seems to me that this is the first meaning of this text. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] For all these reasons, as you will understand, the IDU and Independents Group welcomes this bill, which will receive a favourable opinion on our benches.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u59	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u60	What an ass, to have abolished the heavyweight tax in France! What a stupid thing! Thank you to Ségolène Royal! Fortunately, few members of the Socialist group are present... It is an ecological scandal to have removed what was a great advance from the Grenelle de l'Environnement, but also a scandal in financial terms, and the eco-tax must now be generalized throughout our country. Indeed, the heavy goods vehicles cross France, fill up before arriving in our country, do it again after leaving, do not even pay taxes on fuels at home, and break our road system: it is not surprising that public freight transport does not work! It was really a huge mistake, and it is good to have relaunched this debate on ecotax, an environmental tax that our Freedom and Territory Group supports, even if it is done late and in small pieces. There is unanimity on all the benches of our assembly, and that is so much better. We are dealing with this tax by the question we are dealing with in today's debate, namely the crossing of Strasbourg by 16,000 trucks trying to escape the heavy-duty tax that applies in Germany and in many European countries. The remedy has been delayed, and for years the Alsatians and, more broadly, the inhabitants of the Greater East region have been demanding such taxation. I will not go back to the past renunciations, which I have already mentioned. Today, the plan to ratify the Ordinance on the competences of the European Community of Alsace allows the final piece of a building to be laid. Admitted to the polluter pays principle, we are obviously in favour of it. We must indeed support this principle in France, otherwise we will never get away with it on an environmental level – we must not tell each other any nonsense, ladies and gentlemen, and those who gather around this text all recognize the importance of such an intervention. We are therefore in favour of this text, while remaining vigilant, however, about its implementation conditions. Mechanically, the introduction of motorway taxation on the Rhine axis will lead to the postponement of part of the traffic on the entire Lorrain furrow, as Dominique Potier rightly points out, and in some neighbouring departments. Elected from the department of the Meuse, I am naturally concerned about this risk of relocation of traffic and pollution. In any case, it would have been preferable for the timetable for the ecotax on the network of the European Community of Alsace to be fixed that of the Grand Est region. Otherwise, and in order to ensure the acceptability of the tax, it is therefore essential to consult closely with all the stakeholders concerned. Article 59 of the Ordinance required the CEA, the European Community of Alsace, to consult the main professional organisations of transport companies, without, however, mentioning other actors in the region, in the first place the local authorities. Let us not oppose, by pity, the Grand Est region to the European community of Alsace! We are already suffering enough from the fact that no one has enough skills in our country, and this consultation was really necessary. [[Mr Raphaël Schellenberger protested]] I am convinced that it is essential to extend the eco-tax to the Greater East region, which is an old demand of the Regional Council. In this regard, we have lost a lot of time. It was not until the "climate and resilience" law of August 2021 to provide for the possibility for voluntary regions to introduce a similar tax system. However, the implementation of this reform has been referred to ordinances. Given the two-year authorization period, these orders are not issued and will not be issued until the end of the quinquennium. The implementation of an eco-tax is not foreseen in these texts until January 2024. We could have been faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u61	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u62	That said, we are not blaming our satisfaction at seeing a breakthrough for this particular region of our country, close to Germany. The Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this bill, which seems to respect the principle of territorial differentiation, at the heart of our political commitment, while encouraging the road transport sector to limit its greenhouse gas emissions. The implementation of an eco-tax cannot, however, be the only way to decarbonise the road sector and other levers must be used, in particular the strengthening of the attractiveness of rail freight. Much remains to be done in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u63	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u64	We are invited to comment today on a text that responds to an old demand: that of the introduction in Alsace of an eco-tax whose aim is to correct the effects of the creation in 2005, in our German neighbours, of a similar tax. The entry into force of this heavy-duty toll over-Rhin has led, as we know, to very important freight transport delays on the Alsatian roads, causing the saturation of motorway routes such as the A35. We share the conviction that it is necessary to introduce a tax on heavy goods vehicles in transit on the territory of the European community of Alsace, which responds to obvious health and quality of life issues for the inhabitants. Nevertheless, the text you are proposing does not satisfy us. First of all, we have had several occasions to express our greatest reservations about the transfer to local and regional authorities of jurisdiction over roads and motorways in the unlicensed national public road sector. This disengagement of the State undermines the uniqueness of the national network and territorial equality, in the context of the deterioration of the national road network, which questions the ability of certain regions to cope with these new competences and to assume them, unless they are entrusted to private managers. This type of transfer also penalises the adoption of a national road development and transport strategy consistent with France's commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We would prefer, for our part, a national road tax plan that draws lessons from the failure of the eco-tax, in particular to ensure that the resources that will result from the introduction of motorway taxes do not go to fuel the general budgets of the communities, but to invest in our rail system and in our river infrastructure. We must, in fact, restore the objectives of modal shift from road to rail and river transport, defined more than a decade ago by the Grenelle de l'Environnement. Other provisions of the text seem to us to be problematic. Thus, Article 3 entrusts the Eurometropole of Strasbourg with the task of taking over the commitments between the State and the company ARCOS for the A355 motorway, in particular with regard to the major western bypass of Strasbourg. We have consistently voted for a moratorium on this large-scale circumvention project. We continue to consider that this project does not address short- and long-term issues in a sustainable manner. The construction of this bypass will probably have only a small impact on traffic if it is accompanied by a set of measures aimed at reducing car flows, developing public transport and challenging metropolisation. To know the file of Rouen's circumvention, I must say that the same logic produces the same results. We remain in this position. Finally, we are very much in favour of the amendment adopted on the initiative of our rapporteur, exempting commercial vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes from the payment of the tax. We share, of course, the concern to spare domestic transport and artisans. But, as our colleague Dominique Potier pointed out in committee, we cannot ignore the strategy developed by Eastern European carriers using fleets of small vehicles to travel the last hundreds of kilometres in our territory with the same consequences as the use of larger vehicles in terms of emissions, noise and air pollution and unfair competition. The removal, in committee, of rule 1e r bis A introduced in the Senate is therefore not appropriate and we consider that a more precise rewriting of the order is necessary. If we are in favour of the principle of creating a heavyweight tax in Alsace, at this stage, for all the reasons I have just mentioned, we will definitely vote against this bill of ratification which, in our view, is largely unwarranted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u65	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u66	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u67	I call Mr Philippe Meyer, who is on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u68	The ratification of the ordinances relating to the competences of the European community of Alsace makes it possible to advance the project of taxation of road transport of goods in Alsace. I won't go back to history, since others did it before me. In my turn, I commend the work done between the Government, Parliament and ECA, and that of the rapporteur, Vincent Thiébaut, on this sensitive issue, which has led to the most pragmatic solution. The tax levied by Germany, the LKW-Maut, has significantly oriented the south-north and north-south traffic of Europe on the Alsatian routes. The road network, which is heavily loaded, is deteriorating more rapidly and the pollution generated is significant, as all traffic figures show. Fair treatment must be introduced with traffic in neighbouring Germany: this is one of the objectives of this bill and these ordinances. On the other hand, there is no indication, contrary to what has been said, of a significant forecast carry-over to the Lorrain furrow. Article 1 allows ECA, inter alia, to act in order to regulate and also exempt certain categories of users from the tax, in a manner that remains to be defined. I want to see it as a form of successful decentralization, taking into account the geographical situation of Alsace in the heart of Western Europe, along the Rhine axis. The interventions heard so far show a relative political consensus on this subject, as the Senate has also improved the text to that effect. [[Raphaël Schellenberger applauds]] For all these reasons, we can only support this bill ratifying these orders.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u69	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u70	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u71	The challenge is also that of public health, particularly because of air pollution in a city like Strasbourg, a city to which I am particularly attached as an elected official. Between the large western bypass that has been mentioned on several occasions and the possibility of limiting the carry-over of heavy-duty traffic, the territory has now been provided with adequate tools. As my colleague Meyer rightly said, Article 1 will provide the means to target this tax in order to make it effective and fair. The ball is now in the camp of our territorial elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u72	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u73	This will not surprise you that we are proposing to introduce, upon ratification of the order referred to in section 1, a tax on goods vehicles using the A31 motorway. I would point out that this amendment by our colleagues, Senator Jacquin and Senator Todeschini, was adopted in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u74	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u75	This debate has already taken place in committee. The draft law concerns a single perimeter: that of the roads of the European community of Alsace. So we don't have to go beyond that. The "climate and resilience" law allows regions to address the issue by creating a tax, if they so wish. It is not up to us to decide what the Lorrains want: it is a consultation that must take place in Lorraine, as has been done at the level of the European community of Alsace. In addition, your amendment poses a problem in that it envisages referring to a decree the introduction of a tax on vehicles for the carriage of goods using the A31. However, article 34 of the Constitution provides that it is for the law to lay down rules on the basis, rate and method of recovery of all types of taxation. For all these reasons, and as we have done in committee, I am sending an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u76	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u77	As we said in the general discussion, this is a long-standing demand from the Alsatians. For 15 years the territory has been campaigning for the introduction of this tax. It was under this quinquennium that it was successfully set up, after long consultations with the Alsatian elected representatives. If you wish to introduce a similar system on the A31 trail, I refer you to section 137 of the Climate and Resilience Act, which will allow the regions to create a similar system. Furthermore, during the review of the ECA competence bill in 2019, all impact assessments had reversed the risk of postponement. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u78	Mr Yves Hemedinger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u79	I look forward to voting on this text, because it is a real step forward. This is a good way of doing things because French evil is linked to the fact that the state is far too centralized, applying uniform rules. But we have the demonstration that what is good for Alsace is not necessarily good for Brittany, and that what is good for Brittany is not necessarily good for the south of France. More space is needed for this kind of vision in order to align as much as possible with the needs and reality of the territories. It is good to obtain additional skills, and this is important because we are subjected to unbearable traffic on the north-south axis of Alsace, resulting from the provisions introduced in Germany with Maut. But one thing is to recover skills, another is to have the means to exercise them. While the European community in Alsace has requested €30 million in compensation, the Government has only granted €23 million: 7 million is missing. I do not want these new skills, for lack of resources, to end up costing Alsatians money.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u80	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u81	I agree in part with what has just been said. Mr Potier, if I did not vote for your amendment, it is not out of distrust of the Alsatian elected representatives who have taken this step in relation to other territories that would like to have the same approach. The danger is to make this Alsatian logic look like something selfish and individualistic. But that is not the case. It was, it is true, a desire of Alsace, but it is made with the deepest respect for the identity of the other territories. Personally, if one day I have to vote here for a similar law for Lorraine or other regions, I will do so with the same conviction as I did for Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u82	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u83	Mr. Waserman is right, it is not a question of throwing reproach at our Alsatian friends or of giving them the design of a selfish vision. It is in order to avoid this judgment that I have offered you, with Amendment No 4, the possibility of integrating the A31, and I propose, with Amendment No 5, to translate your desire for Alsace into an ambition for the Great East. The aim of this amendment is simply to give the region, which includes the European Community of Alsace, the capacity to implement equivalent mechanisms on all its furrows, in order to avoid phenomena of disorder created unintentionally, I do not doubt for a second, on your own initiative. What is at stake is less the Alsatians than the legislator and the Government. Planning is at stake. We don't do decentralization without planning, otherwise we create disorder and the "crazy" effects that I have denounced. The solution therefore consists in giving the Great East the ability to do elsewhere what it has done in Alsace. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u84	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, we had this discussion earlier and in committee. I want to remind you of the context. In Alsace, roads are often less than ten kilometres from the German motorway, with significant carry-over effects. As the A31 is more than 100 kilometres away, I am not convinced that the traffic deferral you are talking about, which will generate significant time for the carriers, therefore a financial loss, will compensate for the tax they will pay. So we have to keep it right. I would like to make it clear to all the Alsatian parliamentarians present this evening that the project we are studying has also been worked on with all the local elected representatives. This project, resulting from the Matignon Accords, has been validated by all local elected representatives, in particular by the two presidents of the departmental councils – including Brigitte Klinkert, former president of the Haut-Rhin departmental council – the region and the Government. In addition, there is a legislative framework in the climate and resilience law that the region can seize. Therefore, rather than launching a debate here, I propose that you start a local consultation with your chairmen of departmental councils to know what they want, and then to defend this project with the region competent to create this tax. It's not up to us to do it here. We are only validating agreements concluded between local elected representatives, local and regional authorities, in particular the European Community of Alsace, and the Government in place. I understand your fight, but you're going too fast and the method is typically "crazy." Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u86	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u87	Unfavorable. I repeat that Alsace has been calling for taxation for more than fifteen years. As for the postponement of traffic to the Lorrain furrow, it is invalidated by all impact studies. Moreover, while the Alsatian motorways are only about 35 kilometres apart from the German motorways, the route of the Lorrain furrow involves a detour of about 100 kilometres. Which carrier will choose such a detour instead of heading straight south or north? I would add that section 137 of the Climate and Resilience Act allows voluntary regions to introduce similar taxation. Finally, the consultation committee set up by the Senate will make it possible to involve all the communities and stakeholders concerned in the implementation of this tax. Again, it was the President of the Republic who, under this quinquennium, made an institutional existence in Alsace, and who allowed the co-construction – as the rapporteur recalled – of the European community of Alsace. This model of differentiation can be replicated in other territories if requested.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u88	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u89	It is even less my intention to prolong this debate, which has already taken place, since I have no illusions about its outcome. Let me, however, re-establish some truths in our necessarily friendly dialogue, Mr rapporteur. First of all, the Lorrains want this ecotax. However, the existing legislative arrangements lead to a lag of at least five years with Alsace. As for the postponement of traffic, Madam Minister Delegate, it goes without saying that no one will travel from Strasbourg to Nancy to earn a few euros, it is obvious, but it will be different from the Frankfurt-Lyon axis, where carriers will necessarily make an opportunity calculation based on costs and distance, knowing that on its Lorrain segment, traffic is already saturated and that the share of cross-border traffic is higher than that of the Alsatian motorways. Would truth in Alsace be a lie in Lorraine? No, it doesn't hold up. We are simply advocating a fairness measure of accelerating things to make this laboratory a real experiment, as this planning debate is necessary not only at the regional level, but also at the national and international levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u90	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u91	[[Smile]] I thank my Alsatian colleagues for letting me speak, especially since my department has few members of the Republican Group – but I hope that this will change in the next legislature! Our Alsatian colleagues and neighbours have defended an excellent proposal. Alsace is indeed experiencing a real problem – I do not deny it – of postponing traffic from Germany. I therefore fully support the introduction of an eco-tax – let's call it what we want – in this territory. But Lorraine, as we have said in the debates on the CEA, has another problem: the A31 is already saturated and welcomes in particular a traffic of heavy goods vehicles in transit from the north – more north than we believe, the rest, since many goods come from port areas such as Hamburg – to the south, according to strategies of displacement that already have consequences in France, especially in Alsace and Lorraine. It was, of course, not possible to introduce the eco-tax in Lorraine in the context of the discussions on the ECA, despite an agreement on this point which goes beyond the usual divisions. More recent legislative vehicles will allow this, but they will lead to a staggered entry into force. However, we must make sure that, in the face of the large hauliers crossing Europe via these regions, the State will be at the rendezvous of Lorraine for the eco-tax to apply almost at the same time as in Alsace. I am not in the debate about the possible percentage of deportation. Some traffics, in fact, come from far away and go even further; They are only passing through Alsace and Lorraine. On the other hand, I insist that the State adopt an approach based on equitable accommodation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u92	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u93	I want to clarify a controversy. We are told that the ecotax will come into effect first in Alsace, and only in 2024 in other regions, notably the Great East, because of the time limits linked to the ordinances. Mr Potier is, however, right: obviously, at least there is a need to harmonize the implementation of this tax across the region. We are told that it is up to the region to decide, but we are still the legislator. I am very much in favour of the generalisation of the eco-tax in France, but the decentralisation of a measure, in particular this one, involves implementation arrangements, a timetable and incentives. Again, I am in favour of the introduction of the eco-tax in Alsace, but it must be harmonised with the whole of the Grand Est region, especially Lorraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u94	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u95	There is no question of pretending that the problem does not exist in Lorraine. As a regional adviser, I am well aware of the A31 issue, and I am pleased that we have given the Greater East region the opportunity to have a mechanism similar to that of the European community in Alsace. But you propose to add a new legislative tool that would superimposed itself on already numerous layers; That would be unmanageable. The issue of consultation is important. That is why the committee has chosen the article that the Senate has introduced to set up a committee to consult with all neighbouring territorial authorities on the implementation of this tax. This will help, Mr Pancher, to avoid creating a system in the Rhine basin when the situation on the A31 is very different: the measures adopted must be harmonised. Again, it is with this objective that we have retained and clarified the clause adopted by honourable senators. I hear your concerns, but we already have all the legal tools. Several steps remain before implementation in 2024, including consultation and technical choices. As for the region, which will sit on the consultation committee, it may launch its own consultations with a view to implementing the eco-tax at an early date. I therefore maintain the opinion against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u96	The Alsatians make me feel more talkative than the Bearnais... I propose to speed up our debates. Amendments Nos 11 and 12 of the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u97	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 32, 30, 31, 35, 33 and 34, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u98	Amendment No. 32 clarifies the wording of the paragraph introduced by the Senate and seen in committee, in order to remove any ambiguity of interpretation; the others are editorial or coordination amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u99	The rapporteur's amendment No 14 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u100	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor to support Amendment No 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u101	It aims to alleviate the text of a heavy burden added by the Senate – in this case, the obligation for sworn agents of the future European community of Alsace to obtain an approval to control eco-tax infringements. I see it as a disproportionate measure in relation to similar mechanisms. It is based on the parallel with the road police, but it would be better to compare it with the application of other taxes, or rather charges – because it is more of a charge than a heavyweight tax. Community officials – for example, from a community of communes – who are responsible for ascertaining differences in the levy on household waste are not subject to a cumbersome process of accreditation by the public prosecutor. They are much more like the ECA officers who will be responsible for collecting the levy on heavy goods traffic than the national police officers who report the excesses – hence this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u102	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u103	On the contrary, I believe it is useful to subject the sworn agents of the ECA to the procedure of approval by the public prosecutor. Their mission is still important as it will be to control vehicles using Alsatian road infrastructure. It seemed appropriate for our honourable senators to treat these agents in a manner similar to those referred to in section L. 130-4 of the Highway Traffic Code – because it is indeed a question of road traffic, not of domestic taxes. Finally, the committee adopted an amendment aimed at simplifying the procedure in order to avoid the risk of dual swearing-in of officials or public servants in the drafting adopted by the Senate. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u104	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u105	You propose the abolition of the licence, but there is a similar procedure for municipal police officers, by hand of the prefects, applies to the employees of the highway concession companies. I believe it is necessary to retain the provision adopted by the Senate; unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u106	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u107	This discussion of the nature of the control that will be exercised seems important to me. A parallel is drawn with the approval of the municipal police officers: it goes without saying that they are subject to the approval of the prosecutor of the Republic, but the control requested of the agents of the European community of Alsace is not of the same nature, because it does not fall under a police power on the roads. It is simply a question of ensuring the proper collection of a fee; It's different. Let it be clear to all, including the Alsatians: ECA will not make the police on the roads subject to the charge. When the responsibility for a number of roads, in particular the motorways which will be the subject of this tax, was transferred to the European community of Alsace, it was ensured that the police power on these routes would not be included in the transfer and would remain at the prefect. In this case, the approval does not concern the exercise of a police power, but the control of the payment of the fee – or of the tax, if you prefer. The nature of this control carried out by the agents of the European Community of Alsace could give rise to a real discussion: that is why I tabled this amendment. However, in order for the parliamentary shuttle to be faster, I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u108	Amendment No 29 of the committee is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u109	Amendments Nos 28 of the Committee and 15 of the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u110	Amendments Nos 36 and 16 of the rapporteur are coordination amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u111	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u112	The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the report assessing the application of the tax and assessing the carryovers of traffic is submitted three years, not five years, after the entry into force of the tax. Our discussions – I welcome Jean-Marie Sermier, who represented the Republican Group – highlighted the importance of reducing this deadline, both in a logic of innovation and because other local and regional authorities may be waiting for this assessment to adopt the same mechanism. In addition, the commission removed the provision introduced by the Senate, which provided for an interim report after two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u114	A period of three years will be sufficient to benefit from a first feedback. The Government is therefore in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u115	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u116	It provides for a two-year progress report to measure the effects of the tax: although we are supported by the opposite, we consider that they have not been studied and that they deserve to be observed on the ground. The result would guide concurrent decisions – we hope – in the Lorrain furrow and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u118	My colleague, your amendment is satisfied with the adoption of the previous one, No 17. On the one hand, as I said in committee, two years are a very short time, if not too short, to collect sufficient data for the evaluation and to draw up a report: that is why a period of three years, which has been the subject of a trans-party compromise, is preferable. On the other hand, Amendment No 18, which we shall be considering in a few moments, is intended to guarantee the territorial authorities concerned the possibility of transmitting to the State all the elements which they consider relevant for the preparation of the report. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u120	Request for withdrawal in favour of Amendment No 17 by the rapporteur, which reduces the deadline for submission of the report to three years; If not, the Government's opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u121	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u122	[[Smile on various benches]] I know that you will be in favour of the following amendment, point 6: it is therefore a good negotiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u123	Mr Dominique Potier, who knows everything, has the floor again to support Amendment No 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u124	Since we want a laboratory, let us push the logic to the end: the objective of the tax is not to postpone traffic on the roads of others, which would have no meaning, but to prepare low-carbon mobility. For this, as Thibault Bazin said, as I explained earlier in the gallery, we must bet on the long rail and river traffic: this last network, one of the most powerful in France, is largely underused. The challenge therefore lies in a redeployment already under way on the Moselle, on the Rhine; Our navigation model needs to be rethought, and this requires accelerations for operators. Our idea, which was already included in the law of 22 August 2021 on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, is to set up economic interest groups (EIGs) that collect and redistribute the carbon tax on mobility in order to encourage changes in motorization, transport arrangements, finance infrastructure, organize the forces involved, all in an innovative public-private logic. More modestly, the aim of this amendment is that the report "also sets out the modalities under which part of the revenue from the tax may be allocated to the rail and inland waterway modal carry-over and to the shared uses of the road". This is a possibility, not an obligation, to use these revenues for something other than regulating the road for the road – to organise more complex mobilitys. You can only approve it, unless there is territorial selfishness that I believe you cannot. I repeat, create the 21st century mobility laboratory!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u126	Of course, I support the principle: you know my commitment to clean, multimodal mobility, and in particular modal reporting. On the other hand, I will raise two objections to your amendment. On the one hand – I will take the opportunity to reply to a comment that has been made on the proceeds of the tax – the taxation that we are proposing is based on the European directive "Eurovignette". However, even if it is regrettable, European legislation is very clear: the revenue from such a tax can only finance the maintenance or construction of existing infrastructure subject to the same tax. Discussions on the revision of the Eurovignette are ongoing; I myself have brought a number of information back to the Members of the European Parliament and to the Government. Perhaps we can take advantage of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union to make a positive change in these provisions, but in the meantime they block us. On the other hand, the European community in Alsace does not have the competence to manage the railway and river heritage: if this amendment were adopted, the report would therefore examine the possibility that it would be deprived of part of the proceeds of the tax. That is why I ask for his withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u128	I agree with the rapporteur. In addition, the Government has undertaken to provide Parliament with an assessment of the application of the tax, in particular with regard to the control of road freight transport and the postponement of traffic. As for the possible allocation of part of the proceeds of the tax to the rail or river modal carry-over and to the shared uses of the road, it is the free choice of the European community of Alsace; Consequently, it remains alien to the purpose of the report. It would be contrary to the spirit of consultation, which was intended to give this community more freedom – proof that the Government was working in favour of local authorities, respecting the principle of their free administration and trusting local elected officials. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u129	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u130	I would like to reassure Dominique Potier: if we demand this tool, it is in order to manage traffic. Heavy goods vehicles are not a milk cow and the tax will not bring billions of euros to the European community in Alsace. Planned revenue does not even match the actual cost of operating and maintaining the infrastructure transferred to it by the State! At the level of Alsace, it would therefore be very unnecessary to fight to change the European criteria: I repeat, the revenue from the tax will be largely absorbed by the maintenance and exploitation of the few axes concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u131	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u132	Let me make one final intervention: there is a problem of political coherence – I dare not say "intellectual", but all the same. You are calling for the freedom of communities, and this would be fully protected by the amendment we are proposing! On the one hand, we need a proactive Europe committed to multimodal low-carbon transport: I trust the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union to move it forward in this direction. On the other hand, a transfer of skills on roads was unimaginable two years ago: tomorrow, who knows if regions will not invest in river networks, rail networks, in partnership with national or privatized operators? This is already the case in places! It is therefore not an illusion, but a possibility that abilities may evolve. Since this taxation is not fixed by decree, I hope, in the name of the free administration of local and regional authorities – is it not, Mr Schellenberger? –, it should be able to serve in three years for something other than to repair the roads. It would be absolutely stupid to exclude that carsharing or other low-carbon modes of transport can be financed in this way. The challenge lies not only in the reduction of traffic in Alsace but, once again, in the creation of a laboratory to study solutions to the problems of mobility and pollution which arise on a global scale. Demonstrate a little ambition, a little openness! That is all this amendment requires, which, far from restricting your freedom, gives more meaning and universal scope to the purpose that is yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you to be much more concise. Once the examination of this text has been completed, we will still have one on the agenda: for the other speakers and speakers, please present your amendments with the spirit of synthesis that I thought was unique to Alsace!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u134	The rapporteur's amendment No 18 is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u135	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, in support of Amendment No 9, which seeks to delete Rule 1 octodecies, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u136	This particularly complex article aims to create, with a view to introducing the tax, a kind of consultation committee including neighbouring territorial authorities. Since the beginning of our discussions, we have felt that association with the track system is a problem. However, whether or not this is desirable in the Lorrain furrow, the Alsatian traffic management tool that constitutes this tax will be applied: everything that slows down the introduction of this tax contributes very clearly to the misunderstanding of public decision-making processes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u137	Your tone isn't the right one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u138	That is why I propose to delete the article. There is, of course, a need for consultation, but within the territory concerned, with carriers, shippers and consumers, who are likely to suffer the effects of the tax. The proposal of the President of the European Community of Alsace, which aims to involve the Alsatians widely, through consultations, in decisions of this importance, is much more relevant than the proposal to create an additional Theodule Committee – which would also bring together all opponents of this tax.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u139	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u140	I make a request for withdrawal or, failing that, an unfavorable notice. I am surprised, dear colleague, at your remarks: I find you very virulent in relation to the territorial communities that are bordering. It seems to me that parliamentarians The Republicans, who supported this provision in the Senate, are rather in favour of community-to-community consultation. This will be particularly important for the implementation of the climate and resilience law, as demonstrated by the discussions we have had. The European community of Alsace does not act against and against everyone; It is part of a collaborative approach and seeks to strike a balance with neighbouring territorial communities. The creation of the committee therefore seems to me necessary: I support this provision of the Senate, which the commission has retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u141	You'd make us almost friendly, Mr. Schellenberger!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u142	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u143	The Senate, Member of Parliament, wanted to establish a committee to monitor the work of the CEA to introduce the road transport tax. This committee will involve representatives of the local and regional authorities involved in the implementation of the tax. The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning of your Assembly has been keen to retain this committee, which will facilitate consultation with local elected representatives and will put all stakeholders and communities around the table for the proper implementation of the tax. The Government is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u144	The rapporteur's amendment No 19 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u145	On the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and Les Républicaines groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u146	Amendment No 8 by Mr Raphaël Schellenberger, which seeks to delete Article 1 novodecies, is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u147	[[Smile]] I'm sorry, Mr. President Le Fur: I don't understand Breton, and I didn't notice that you wanted to speak on the article! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u148	Trugarez arme: thank you very much, Mr. President! Let me make a slightly more Western comment on the debate. I listened to him without participating, not being concerned in the first place. I find this text interesting because it confirms in the law the existence of a human reality: that of Alsace. I think that's very good. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I have noted that there is a purely Alsatian specific system in the area of taxation, with regard to road issues. It corresponds to the reality of a traffic which was once flowing in Germany and which today engulfs the Alsatian roads. I fully understand the logic of the device, which is completely respectable; I note, however, that it is very singular and that there is no question of generalizing it. I should like to point out that this subject concerned other regions a few years ago. In any event, I would like to pay tribute to my Alsatian colleagues who have been able to promote this text and defend their beautiful region, as well as its identity. I am one of those who are committed to the identity of our regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u149	Amendments Nos 20 and 21 by the rapporteur are drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u150	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u151	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 52 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u152	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u153	I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the adoption of this text. It is indeed a major step forward for Alsace, but also for the right to differentiation desired by the President of the Republic. I would remind you that this has enabled us to respond to Alsace's expressed desire. As a forerunner, ECA has a strong responsibility: it is now up to it to be exemplary, and I hope it will inspire other communities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Let me particularly thank the rapporteur, Vincent Thiébaut, for the correctness of his work and his search for compromise, in constant connection with the ECA. Of course, I do not forget the rapporteur of the text in the Senate, Jean-Claude Anglars, as well as all the senators who have invested in the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u154	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u155	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u156	The next item is the debate, after the accelerated procedure has been initiated, on the bill by Messrs. Patrick Vignal, Christophe Castaner, Mrs Yaël Braun-Pivet, Marie-Pierre Rixain, Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha and several of their colleagues to guarantee equality and freedom in the attribution and choice of name (No. 4853, 4921).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u157	Mr Patrick Vignal, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u158	Who am I? The child of my parents at the beginning and, too quickly to their liking, myself. Not just a son or heir, but someone free in this country of freedoms and tolerance that is France. Who am I? A husband, a father who gave his name to his children without really asking himself about it at the time. Yet, by giving birth to me, my parents chose for me. But who among them is my father or my mother? Did they agree? At that time, the name was necessarily the father's. Since then, my name is Patrick Vignal. It's part of me, socially and intimately. Am I proud of that name? It's my story, each one of them. Colleagues, are you, too, proud of your name? Does he have a happy family history or a family history of pain? Did you change it when you got married? Since 2002 and the passage of the Gouzes law, which we are celebrating almost the twentieth anniversary, the father and mother can accomodate their two names. But it's quite complicated. Today, we do not have the choice to simply change, as citizens, that name that qualifies us, that name that marks us and that takes on an extremely profound meaning for some. Every story is singular, never anomaly. The name is anything but a simple civil status data. To illustrate my point, I am speaking tonight for the very many French and French people who wrote to me. They make us enter into their privacy, remind us more than ever that the laws we vote only make sense by going to meet the just demands of our fellow citizens, as close to their lives. It is an honour for me tonight to be in front of you and to give them the floor. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to vote for this text for them. Let's listen to them. Pierre-Jean, 37: "My father recognized me, but left me shortly after I was born. It was my mother who raised me and made me the person I am today. That's why I always wanted to bear his last name. I tried to make a request for a change of name to the seal keeper, which was rejected. Demoralized, I did not have the means to start a new procedure. » Brigitte: "For sixty-five years I have borne the name of a man who is married to my mother, but who is not my breeder. My mom tried to change it, but it's expensive and complicated. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u159	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u160	"If this law passes, I will ask to bear her name out of respect for her, she who raised me alone. I was very moved to learn this hope of finally being who I am, even sixty-five years later. » Fabrice, 50: "I was born without a father, with the name of my mother. My mother married someone who recognized me. My childhood was made of horrors and violence. For me, it's more than a burden. I wish I could take my mother's name. A name is very important. » Laure, 31, "My son bears the name of his father. We're together, but we live far away from each other. When I wanted to go on vacation to my parents abroad, I didn't ask Dad for permission. While I had on me the birth certificate, the family booklet and a CAF document, I was denied access to the plane and asked where his father was. I had to prove that he was my son with his birth photos. » Anthony, 27 years old: "I haven't seen my "father" for more than ten years, the person who has always humiliated me, wounded me, criticized me, demeaned me as a less than nothing. When you're different, it doesn't pass and it's even more serious when it's your father who's homophobic. I want my mom's name back. » Since we have been talking about this bill, testimony has come to us from all sides and tells us the strength of this text for their daily lives. These fellow citizens call for more justice, freedom, fairness and fraternity. By voting on this text, ladies and gentlemen, you will put an end to suffering and you will appease families, because it looks at children and parents. He looks at the real, in a society where the notion of marriage and equality, respect for the other, is constantly progressing, for this law is also that of today's couple. The current procedure for name change is complex, expensive and extremely restrictive. The implementation of this law will cost almost nothing. This law will give a choice, without imposing it, to give freedom, without taking anything from anyone. This law is in the interests of the child above all. It is for this reason, ladies and gentlemen, that I shall propose to you earlier that we adopt an amendment to ensure that the two parents who have not given their name to their child can add it in the name of use, on the sole condition that they inform the other parent. Currently, the addition depends on the spouse's agreement, while 80% of family names are only fathers'. I would like to thank Christophe Castaner, Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you, Madam Vice-President, and my colleague Camille Galliard-Minier, a lawyer, who helped me in these steps, as well as my group as a whole. I would also like to thank the MODEM Group, which has had the happy initiative to propose a new title for this text in order to make it more precise – which is important with regard to a text dealing with name change – as well as the Group of the European People's Party and all the left-wing groups who have supported this initiative. Finally, I would of course like to thank all the law commissioners for the constructive discussions we have had in committee and all Members for their constructive approach, as shown by the amendments tabled which will give rise to an equally constructive debate. This text will give confidence. This law refuses a society of conflict. It will affect all generations. Dear colleagues, the French and French are watching us. We need to know how to split our political armor and our partisan affiliations. What if today we decide to give reason to freedom, to choose and to appropriate his name? It would be a nice way to respond to the many French and the many French disillusioned by the way in which political life unfolds in our country, which unfortunately often turns to sterile confrontation. After two years of health crisis that have exhausted us as they have exhausted many citizens, this law is a text of appeasement and political and societal reconciliation. Minister, I would like to thank you for your listening, your commitment and your stainless support. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, I encourage you to vote on this bill, which will cost no one and will do society good.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u161	It costs money!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u162	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u163	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u164	The surname, which appears on the birth certificate, is first of all a signature, but it is also and above all an identity. No doubt the vast majority of our fellow citizens are happy to bear his name, and that's very good; It's even often a reason for pride. But it is always a symbol of belonging, a deep attachment to a family and, with it, to a history. The last name is public, but it connects us to the intimate part that exists in each of us, and the intimate also sometimes contains dramas. When a name becomes impossible to bear, the law must be there to relieve women and men who do not wish to bear a name of pain, which is sometimes even the name of an executioner. Because yes, we know, some people bear their names more than they wear them. In a less dramatic but equally important way, the name of the minor child may also be a source of harassment for the parent who has not passed on his or her name and yet raises the child on a daily basis, sometimes alone. I am thinking in particular of those mothers who have to constantly show their family booklets to prove that they are indeed the mother of a child who does not bear their name. We know these difficulties well. Some of us have experienced them in their personal history and we all know people who have experienced them. This text is a text of freedom, it is a text of equality, it is a text of simplification. Mr rapporteur, your proposal for a law, tabled with the support of the Members of the majority, will solve all these difficulties in practice. It will allow greater freedom for every Frenchman and greater equality between parents, without disrupting the rules on the attribution and devolution of the family name, I insist on this point. What exactly is this? Destructing the family? Only nenni. The first is to simplify the rules of name change for persons who, after their majority, want to substitute or add to their name, the name of the parent who has not been passed on to them. I recall that while the 2005 and 2013 reforms were able to bring some flexibility to the name law, the process of name change has remained very rigid – I am well placed to know it. This change requires pre-advertising formalities, followed by an instruction by the Chancellery's services, which controls the existence of a legitimate ground. It is therefore necessary in some way to undress, to share this intimacy with the services of the Chancellery. If the request is granted, the Prime Minister must still sign a decree, which is published in the Official Journal of the French Republic. It costs money and takes time, sometimes a lot of time. This procedure is fully justified when it comes to taking a name that is not one of the parents, but out of the 4000 requests for change of name that I have received each year, almost half concerns persons who are adults who wish to bear the name of a parent who has not been transmitted to them. It is a question of allowing any adult, in a simplified way, once in his life, to add or substitute for his own name the name of the parent who has not given him his own name. This change will be made before the registrar and not by decree. The Registrar will not have to check the reason for this change and there will be no need for publicity formalities other than those provided by the vital records. Indeed, it is only for the person concerned to bear the name which could have been attributed to him at birth, no more or less. I support this reform with vigour and, as you know, Mr Vignal, with enthusiasm because it simplifies the lives of our fellow citizens, makes sense and is right. If the parents have been able to choose the name of the newborn child, there is no reason why the child, when he or she reaches the age of majority, cannot make the same choice for himself or herself. This bill also offers the possibility of simplifying and supplementing the rules relating to the name of use, which everyone has the right to make use of in social life, at work, in relations with each other, neighbours, friends and administrations. This name cannot be passed on to descendants. The proposed law first introduces into the Civil Code the rules introduced by the Badinter Act of 1985, which are not sufficiently known. They allow any person who is a major or minor to add the name of the parent who has not been passed on to him or her to his or her family name as his or her use. The possibilities offered in this area will also be extended for adults and minors, since it will also be possible to substitute the name of the parent who has not been transmitted or to add it in the appropriate order. As far as minors are concerned, the attribution of a customary name is traditionally considered in case law as a serious act of exercising parental authority which requires the prior consent of both parents and, failing that, the authorization of the judge. In the event of separation, this rule may cause difficulties when the child bears the name of only one of the parents and the parent refuses to add a common name. It is therefore necessary to allow the parent whose name has not been transmitted to join him, as a practice, with that of the child, provided that he has informed the other parent in advance. In this case, it is indeed more appropriate for the parent to object to the addition of the judge. As you will understand, I welcome the effort to simplify the bill. I would like to thank the members of the Law Committee, in particular the rapporteur Patrick Vignal with whom I have been working for several months, Camille Galliard-Minier who has done a remarkable job, as well as Aude Luquet for his precision and Alexandra Louis for his fine knowledge of these sensitive subjects, not to mention President Castaner who supported this initiative. I would also like to quote the group Porte mon nom – and especially its president Marine Gatineau Dupré – which, through its mobilization, has made it possible to move the lines. The parliamentary procedure is long but I am glad that we can bring your fight, our fight to a successful conclusion today. However, concerns were expressed that the simplified change of name procedure should be entrusted to registrars. I would like to take a moment to try to ease these fears. Like you, I am fully aware that the balance of name is particularly sensitive and always fragile: it must only be touched with a shaking hand. I would point out, however, that a procedure for changing the name before a registrar already exists in the event of a disparity between the name worn in France and the foreign name, as well as in the case of the change of first name. This new simplified procedure of name change therefore does not constitute a leap into the unknown for these agents. Others have raised the risk of a "à la carte" civil status. I think it's a fantasy: since 1985, anyone can add as a use the name that has not been passed on to him. Since 2005, parents have been able to choose the child's name. This bill also does not undermine the principle of unity of the name of the siblings provided for in the Civil Code, a principle that will not be altered during the minority. On the other hand, in some cases, members of the same siblings may already have different names, especially because of the modalities of establishing filiation that may vary within a family – this has always existed and is inevitable. Finally, I would like to point out that it is not the law that makes society, but the other way round. That is why the aim of the bill is not to change society or destroy the family, but to solve concrete problems that our citizens face in their daily lives. We are sometimes accused of being technocratic or too far away from the concerns of the French. Know that I have received an incredible amount of letters that refer to simple things of life that we cannot and must not oppose. A lady over 70 wrote to me: "I bear my name as one bears a cross because it is the name of my rapist. Can we remain insensitive to this? Another woman said: "I have the name given by my father, a name that will no longer be intended to be passed on, but I am particularly proud of it because it is the name of a family that has distinguished itself in the history of France. Do we have to let this name disappear by not allowing its transmission? I can refer to other examples, such as the mother who alone raises her child and who has to justify that her son is her son to enrol him in judo or school. Is it so complicated to allow the thousands of women involved to add their surname? This law is also a law of equality so that these humiliating situations no longer exist. "I don't want any more," I read again, "to bear the name of a father who was only a genitor to me that I have never seen; I want to be able to pay tribute to my mother who raised me. Can't we hear this speech? Are we not at the heart of a simplification that some of our compatriots call for? I have all these letters at your disposal: I am sure you will be upset by their content. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is doing a useful job. Better, she's doing a fair job.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u165	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u166	"I cannot persuade myself that the property of the name lies elsewhere than in the agreement and consent of men. This sentence is pronounced by a certain Hermogene, at the beginning of Cratyle, dialogue in which Plato questions the nature of language. It poses the problem correctly: can one be fully self-employed when the world uses a name that is not recognized for its own? We don't think so. Having a proper name and ensuring that it is actually in use is neither more nor less than a necessary condition for being self-employed. Therefore, to legislate on the possibility of changing one's name or transmitting it to one's child is to deal with a subject that is both philosophical and practical, prosaic, reasonable and poignant. It is also to face the most audacious point of republican humanism. Indeed, this doctrine professes that human beings possess their own dignity, which consists in power and duty to constantly affirm who they are. We use this ability based on our experience, history, models that have been given to us by our parents, family or loved ones, those that we want to claim from ourselves or which, on the contrary, we reject the example. Thus, the human person is built and eventually chooses who he is. For this, she frees herself, and sometimes emancipates herself, from the influences that her environment has exerted on her. All cases are possible: she may refuse to bear the name of the person who caused her to suffer or whose conduct she resents, she may change her religion or want to testify to her filial attachment to the one who raised her. It bears witness to the fact that an inheritance is not a burden but a burden that it collects. Our humanity depends in large part on this choice. Until 2002, parents could not choose the family name they wanted to pass on to their child. If they were married or had recognized the newborn baby together, the child would automatically bear the father's name. Since then, the law allows parents to choose the name they want to pass on to their child: that of one of the two parents or the two adjacent names, in the order chosen by the couple. Yet the tradition of giving the child the father's name persists in heterosexual couples. According to INSEE, 81.4% of children born in 2019 in France received the name of their father; 11.7% have a dual name and only 6.6% have their mother's name only. According to the Porte mon nom collective figures, more than one in ten women did not choose her child's birth name: 85% of the women interviewed even regret or are afraid to regret bearing their husband's name in the event of divorce. Currently, it is almost impossible to change the child's name without the consent of the other parent, even if it is only to add a second name. As a reminder, the use name is used in social life and in administrative documentation. It is also present on the child's identity documents. This impossibility causes administrative complications and suffering in situations of conflict separation. This is the case for women who raise their children alone: 85% of single-parent families involve women raising almost 3 million children alone! It is particularly humiliating for a mother who alone raises her child to have to constantly justify her filiation with the authorities, whether at school, in hospital or on trips abroad, because the child does not bear the same name as her. Even though these women manage the day-to-day care of the child and sometimes all the care of the child, they are constantly delegitimized by the fact that they do not bear the same name as the child. It is particularly difficult for both mothers and children to continue to bear the name of a violent father, in the context of domestic, conjugal or child abuse. The process of name change is long – it can last up to six years – painful, sometimes humiliating and above all costly, therefore socially discriminating. According to the group Porte mon nom, the total cost of the project would be 5000 euros on average, counting the costs of a lawyer. Victims of incest who no longer wanted to bear the name of their aggressor were denied their request. In 2020, of the 4,293 applications filed in this regard, only 44% were accepted. That is why this text, which facilitates the change of name of use to civil status, seems to us to be in the interest of the citizens of this country, in that it advances freedom: we will vote for it. However, we would have liked it to go further by recognizing in particular a request that we have been defending since the beginning of the legislature: that the change of civil status itself be facilitated. We will have to address this measure, which we hope will be adopted in a future legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u167	Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u168	[[At 18:25, Ms. Laetitia Saint-Paul replaced Mr. David Habib in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u169	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u170	A last name is not just letters written on a piece of paper. It's an identity, it's roots that anchor us in a history between past and future. It is also a legacy with the weight it entails, a responsibility that weighs on the child even before he or she is aware of it. Sometimes this name can be heavy, too heavy when it becomes suffering. If the name democratized in France in the 12th century, it has long been said of " patronymic" to today speak of "family name". While the automaticity of the father's name was intended to link a subject to his lineage by placing it visibly in a genealogical continuity, it is now possible for parents, since a law of March 2002, to choose between the name of the mother, the father or to accolate both. Despite a now free choice, 80% of parents attribute the father's name, admitting, consciously or not, that the mother gives birth and that the father gives his name. Parents do not feel this as a sacrifice but as a balance in the relationship to the child. If we in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are in favour of this bill, we believe it is necessary to work in parallel to a better knowledge and application of the 2002 law. We believe that the real fight to ensure equality for the child is to look more on the part of each parent's role than to look at the choice of the child's name. The group was pleased that the committee had adopted its amendment to amend the title of the bill so that it would be more in line with its purpose. For us, the choice of name is indeed a matter of identity rather than gender equality. If some of our fellow citizens are waiting for improvements, let us be aware that the provisions on the attribution of the name are suitable for a majority of French citizens. During the hearings prior to the consideration of the bill, several experts made it clear that the text was intended to respond to specific situations, and that it should not be made a general rule. We are sensitive to this analysis. Like the vast majority of the French, we are attached to the rule of the immutability of the name derived from filiation. We know, however, that there are difficulties. Some see their name as an indelible mark, which they can only change after a combatant's journey. I am thinking of those who have suffered the incest of a parent, or who have been abandoned from an early age by the parent whose name they bear; I am thinking of mothers or fathers who have custody of a child bearing the name of the other parent, and who must constantly prove their bond of filiation. For these people, facilitating the process of name change is a healthy and expected step forward. Our group will defend two amendments. One, in article 1, provides that a parent who has not given his or her name to the child may add his or her name as his or her use, within the limits of the first family name of each parent. In the event of disagreement, the parent may refer the matter to the family court, which will decide according to the child's interests. Our second amendment provides that by declaring the total withdrawal of parental authority, the court seised may decide on the change of name of the child, subject to his or her personal consent if he or she is over 13 years of age. This simplification will help to respond to the plight of the victims – because hearing and responding to the suffering is indeed the primary purpose of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u171	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u172	The proposal for a law to reform the rules on the patronymic name and the possibilities of changing it is of major importance, as it affects the daily lives of our citizens. Its purpose is to ease the conditions for the use of children's names by decision of the parents and, above all, to make the procedure for changing names for adults more flexible, simply by making a statement to a registrar. There are laws that change things and open up opportunities; It is also those who accompany the change and respond to expressed needs that have not yet been met: certainly, the text falls under this second category. For a long time, the legitimate child was exclusively named after his father; her mother's name could only be added, for use, but was not transmissible. The law of 4 March 2002 on the surname, passed under the government of Lionel Jospin, abolished the automatic and exclusive transmission of the father's name, which had been in force since the law of 6 fructidor year II. It allowed parents to choose their child's family name: either the father's, the mother's, or their two names in the order of their choice. The law of 17 May 2013 opening marriage to same-sex couples went further: in the event of disagreement between the parents, the child may bear their two names in alphabetical order – as a reminder, it was originally foreseen that the two next names would be the rule, not only in the event of disagreement between the parents, but also in the event that they do not expressly indicate to the civil state officer their will to transmit only one of the two surnames. So there remains a strong tradition that has an impact on our fellow citizens. So far, to change a family name, there had to be proof of a legitimate motive. The bill will change the situation. Article 1 of the Act gives the right to any person of age to bear, as a practice, the surname of the parent who has not transmitted his or her surname, by substitution or by addition to his or her own name, in the order of his or her choice, within the limit of a family name for each of the parents. This right is open to minor children and will be applied by holders of parental authority. Article 2 provides that, by application to the registrar of the birth certificate, a person may change his or her name by substituting or adding to him or her the family name of the parent who did not transmit his or her name, in the order that he or she has chosen, and within the limit of a family name for each of the parents. The Socialist and related groups will of course vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u173	Thank you, Mrs Karamanli.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u174	The text will indeed facilitate the daily lives of divorced mothers and those who raise a child alone without bearing the same name as him, and who must constantly justify their motherhood – as you recalled, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u175	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u176	It is not only humiliating, but also, quite simply, tiring.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u177	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u178	The proposed law is in line with the responsibility and freedom of parents. It complements a legislative movement to which the deputies of the Socialist and related groups have contributed in the past and still subscribe. My group will present two amendments. The first is to identify precisely the service to which the French abroad will have to address in order to make a change of name – this concern has been raised to us, as you know.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u179	I get it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u180	The second is to allow for an inversion of names. I have no doubt that, with these reservations, we will reach an agreement and, together, take a step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u181	I don't know!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u182	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u183	"Oh! Be some other name! What's in a name? This question asked by Shakespeare in Romeo and Juliet continues to question us. Formally and coldly, the answer is quite simple: the name is above all a component of our legal personality; It is what connects us to society, which allows us to designate ourselves, to identify us, sometimes even to find us. But the name is also what connects us to a history, to a family heritage, to origins. Your name reveals part of your past, and sometimes determines your future – this was cruelly the case for Romeo and Juliet, whose fate was sealed because they were called Montaigu and Capulet. If some have the chance to wear their names like pride, others drag them like a ball. Wearing a name is kind of a fatality, since it is struck by the civil code with a principle of immutability that can only bear a few exceptions. Let us make it clear: the proposal for a law is not intended to revolutionize the rules of devolution of the surname, which obviously must respond to a question of stability. It aims to facilitate, in very specific situations and according to equally precise rules, the change of the patronymic name or the use name. The first step in the text is to create a simplified procedure for name change. Every year, some 2000 Frenchmen want to change their names, but only one third can do so. The procedure is complex and often discouraging, since it imposes a legitimate ground. To bear the name of a violent father, an absent father, or a father who has simply never been a violent father, must no longer be a fatality. Why ask people to justify the wounds of their past, when they could simply bear the name of their other parent? In his preliminary speech on the draft civil code, Portalis stated: "Laws are made for men, not men for laws. This adage should inform our discussions. Let me illustrate my point with the testimony of a person who is particularly dear to me, without whom I would probably not be the one I am: "I have borne a name that should never have been mine. Whenever I heard him speaking, I lived him as an injustice; Worse, I felt like I was the fruit of a fraud. I inherited the name of the man who was married to my biological mother when I was born, when he was neither my biological father nor the one who raised me. He was a stranger to me, and by his name it was as if he deprived me of my true filiation, of my true identity. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u184	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u185	"I met this man once in my life. What were his words? Just that I wasn't his daughter, and that he wasn't my father. I hated that name and I still hate it. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u186	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u187	"This name followed me until my simple adoption, at 30 years old. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u188	Beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u189	So let those who have lived such a childhood choose their name. In committee, there have been concerns that the bill may detract from civil status and that it may encourage our fellow citizens to engage in these actions in fantasy, or in order to escape their responsibilities. This is neither the purpose nor the purpose of the text. The possibility of changing the name will be strictly regulated, since it will only be possible to use it once, and it will remain backed by a link of filiation already established by the civil status.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u190	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u191	There is no risk of questioning the traceability of filiation and marital status. In addition, I believe that most of those who make this choice know its symbolic significance. The second step in the text concerns the use name. The aim is to simplify the daily lives of families, especially mothers and children, by clearly stating in the civil code that the child can use the name of one of his or her parents rather than the other. It will be permitted to add the mother's name, as a custom, to that of the father. The vast majority of children inherit their father's name at birth. While civil law has long established equality between parents in this area, customs and practices persist. This de facto inequality can have repercussions, especially during a divorce: the mother, who no longer bears the same name as her child, must continually justify that she is the mother – this has been very well recalled. We will defend an amendment to ensure that the mother does not have to refer the matter to the judge if the father disagrees: it will be for the father to do so if he opposes the use of the name. If the child is over 13, he will of course be heard. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Aware of the progress of the bill, and eager to defend the interests of families and individuals, the group Acting together will vote in favour of it. I would like to thank all those who have defended the text, in particular the rapporteur and the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Louis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u193	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u194	Legislating on the name is not annoyance. Indeed, the name bears an identity and a filiation; It summarizes both family membership and individualization of a person. The history of the name is marked by the evolution of our societies, which the law reflects well. Thus, the law for a long time imposed a regime of almost absolute preeminence of the father's name, to such an extent that the surname was called a surname. However, mentalities and morals have changed, and significant legislative changes have taken place: the Act of 4 March 2002 on family name, as amended by the Act of 18 June 2003 on the devolution of family name, has put an end to this state of law under the Civil Code of 1804; It has given parents the right to choose their child's family name – either that of the father, that of the mother, or their two names in the order of their choice. The law of 17 May 2013 opening marriage to same-sex couples has completed this procedure, by terminating the rule which by default assigned the father's name in case of disagreement: the child can thus bear the name of each of his parents, in alphabetical order. The law so far required a legitimate justification for changing the name; the procedure was long and tedious. The purpose of the bill is to simplify these procedures, since a request for a change of name can be submitted in a town hall on a simple form. The main effect of the text is to establish a real right to name change once in one's life. Willingness to display or, conversely, to silence a filiation, willingness to save a name in the process of extinction, difficulty in carrying a name of particular consonance: the motivations of the applicants are diverse and the law must treat them equally. I am thinking, for example, of women who are raising their children alone – you mentioned their situation, minister – and who are regularly asked to justify their parentage – justification that is not requested from the parent with the same name as the child.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u195	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u196	This legislative discussion is therefore timely and expected by a number of our fellow citizens. The IDU and independent group will, however, be vigilant not to create instability in civil status – this would, admittedly, be counterproductive. Perhaps it would have been desirable to refer the matter to the Council of State for its opinion, so that it could shed light on the risks or collateral effects of the provisions that we are about to vote on. The family institution is indeed an important foundation of our society, which must not be overturned. However, the bill seems to strike the right balance. Without really revolutionizing the name change, it will certainly facilitate the procedure and establish a more concrete equality between the parents. I regret, in my personal capacity, that the committee has changed its title, which had the merit of expressing, beyond a practical objective, the whole spirit of freedom and equality in which this bill wishes to be included. On freedom: to allow a person to change his or her family name is also to take into account the fact that there may be some significant events in a life that may require such a change. There are many circumstances that we cannot legitimately ignore. On equality: giving a mother who alone raises her child the opportunity to add her own family name to her child's name has a strong symbolic significance not only in everyday life, but also to show that she has the same rights to her child. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] The bill is therefore in the right direction. Many families agree on the use of the father's name and do not wish to depart from this tradition, but there are also many situations in which the assignment of the default father's name is not justified and cannot be preserved. It is not against our culture to highlight the names of both parents and to recognize that they are equally legitimate. When it goes against the will of the mother or children, the automatic devolution of the father's name is a tradition that must not be suffered. As you will understand, the IDU and independent group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u197	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u198	The family name bears the identity of a person and his or her inheritance, so many cases in which the dominant have had the will to erase a different cultural heritage: we have many examples in history and geography. The last name touches the intimate. He follows the individual all his life. It is more than just an administrative name. Wearing his name is a pride for many of us, but for some, it can be a burden and a source of ill-being. Many people are condemned to bear the name of the person who beat them, abused them or subjected them to sexual violence when they were children; It may also be the person who abandoned them or, simply, a person they do not know or whose name they simply do not wish to bear. Hence, changing the name can be experienced as a liberation. In addition, bearing the name of the person who does not exercise parental authority can lead to heavy administrative complications on a daily basis. However, these two situations are increasingly encountered, particularly in the case of single-parent families. Often, a mother alone raises her child, who does not bear the same name as her, but that of a father who could only have had a role as a breeder. Inheritance of our patriarchal societies, the family name was for a very long time exclusively that of the father. He was until recently referred to as a patronymic. The Civil Code of 1804 provided that children would take the name of their father. As a result of this heritage, eight out of ten children still bear their father's only family name. Our law has changed a lot in recent years. Since the 2003 Act, parents have been able to choose the names of their children: it may be the father's name, the mother's name, or the addition of both names. Since the 2013 law, in the event of disagreement between parents, the child is assigned a name consisting of the names of both parents in alphabetical order. All of this, I suppose you know. But it was necessary to go further, in particular to facilitate access to administrative procedures for name change, which are now part of the combatant's journey. In this sense, the bill is very welcome. I would like to thank Patrick Vignal, its author, for his quality work. Section 1 of the Bill will allow persons who wish to do so to indicate as their name of use, i.e. as a name which they use in everyday life, the name of the parent who did not transmit his name to them, whereas the current law does not allow it to be added to their name. The text also proposes, in Article 2, to simplify considerably the procedure for changing the surname, i.e. the name entered on the birth certificate, in the event that the adult wishes to bear the name of the parent who did not transmit his or her name. The amendment adopted in committee that the request for a change of name could also be made to the registrar of the place of residence, not just the place of birth, is welcome and will further facilitate access to this right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u199	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u200	In conclusion, I would like to thank the group Porte mon nom that worked to put this topic on the political agenda. This collective has collected thousands of testimonies from people wishing to change their surnames. There are many testimonies from people who today bear the name of a person who abused them during their childhood and who await the vote on this bill as a release. As you will understand, the Libertés et territoires Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u201	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u202	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u203	We will discuss a particular legal object, the last name. Indeed, as several speakers have already pointed out before me, the name is first and foremost a tool that every Frenchman uses daily, in all the acts of administrative, professional and personal life, to recognize himself, to differentiate himself and to identify himself. It is therefore a particularly intimate legal object. From the acceleration of exchanges between individuals, and the need to secure them, emerged the need to codify the way one calls the other, the one with which one interacts. So it is a very old right that we are about to touch. The evidence is that it is codified in very old articles of the Civil Code. It may be that we are breaking an open door, but I want to stress how sparingly we must intervene, following a changing society, but always being aware that the name is at the heart of the concerns that we still share today: facilitating identification, stabilizing the law over time, facilitating interactions and securing them at the legal level. The times have changed and the way the name is passed on has probably changed as well. We agree with you that a number of uses require further flexibility. This is particularly the case for article 1 of the bill, which provides for effective and welcome relaxations for parents who need, in the acts of daily life, their children to be easily recognized as their own in order to avoid particularly complex legal imbroglios, which have become unbearable to many families. The family has changed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u204	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u205	... and this change must be accompanied in the way the family organizes its legal relations with society, through the use of the family name. The Republican Group will therefore have no overall difficulty with Article 1e r, which, I repeat, provides for welcome improvements. Formal change of name to civil status is a slightly more sensitive issue, and attention should be paid to the fact that special cases, rightly mobilized by previous speakers, do not become the general rule. There are two different situations to distinguish. First, the simplification of the rules that allow for the addition of the family name of the parent who was not given at birth to the civil status: on this point, the situation will be different according to the generational cohorts, because not all generations are equal. For some of them, the issue is largely already resolved, since the law has changed by allowing parents to give two names to children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u206	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u207	The second situation, namely the replacement of a name with a civil status, is different. It is a matter of specific and less recurrent cases, which, in my view, require greater caution. I am quite uncomfortable with the idea that the registrar can, alone, substitute one last name for another, that is, erase a good part of the previous civil status. In conclusion, I would like us to have some attention in the next debate: I have heard colleagues say in committee, in particular, that some people have the name of a father they have never known; I see what example it is alluded to, and I understand it. However, this way of presenting things hides other examples. One can bear the name of a father whom one has not known and be very proud of; ...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u208	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u209	... you can even sometimes bear the name of a father you didn't know following a posthumous marriage – it is very rare, but still allowed in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u210	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u211	By generalizing cases of this kind in order to defend a societal advance, perhaps necessary, we risk doing very much to many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u212	I'd rather agree.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u213	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u214	The proposal for a law to guarantee equality and freedom in the attribution and choice of name has a dual objective: to facilitate the lives of families and to better reflect, in the possibilities offered by law, the identities that sometimes cause suffering. The text provides a relevant response to the requests of associations and thousands of our fellow citizens who alert us to the difficulties resulting from the rigidity of the current law, even though it has evolved in this area, particularly since the 2002 law. A name is a story, it's our own insertion into history. It reminds us that the construction of an individual is also made of symbols and representations. A family name is therefore not a number, it is the powerful identifier of a person, of his past: it is an emblem of which one can be proud, which is fortunately the case for many of us. But we can also feel shame or anger at him, unfortunately, because he can bear witness to a painful past that we would like to hunt but that is unduly lingering. How can we not understand the pain of a child or adult who is forced to bear the surname of a father who is absent or violent or of an abusive parent? How can we admit that this reprimanded name will be the one to be passed on to our own children, a testimony of a scorned past that comes over and over again, perpetuating itself, so to speak, by force in the future of our own descendants? How can we not simply hear the difficulties of a mother who, alone in charge of raising her children, sees herself at every opportunity, at school, in the hospital, in the sports club, obliged to prove that she is their mother by leaving her family booklet at every end of the day, as Mr. The bill responds to these difficulties without profoundly changing, a fortiori without weakening, the building of the civil code and our civil status.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u215	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u216	The proposed law represents a new evolution of the law, which has gradually shifted from the automaticity of the attribution of the father's name to the possibility of entering the mother's name and, from that of changing, replacing or supplementing her family name with a simple application to the registrar. This right to change, and not just to ask for change, is a real step forward that the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will support. The family name is the identity of each individual. It allows one to situate oneself in a family history, while projecting towards the future for one's own transmission. It is therefore essential that each individual be able to assume fully and serenely that name(s) derived from filiation, which will themselves be passed on to his or her children. The flexibility afforded by the text, both by securing the use of the use name and by facilitating the change of the name on the birth certificate, also reflects a desire not to invisivize the mother in filiation. Even if this is not the direct object of this text, as evidenced by the change of its title in committee, this is, at least in part, the meaning of the various civil status reforms that have taken place since the 1985 law: the progressive passage of the surname, whose etymology refers to the father, in the family name. Even today, 85% of the children born only bear the name of their father, which is of course the result of the weight of traditions, as society remains deeply marked by patriarchy. Society is asking us to make a difference. It is our responsibility to adapt the right to this requirement and to ensure that each future parent is informed that it is possible, if not desirable, that the child's name bears witness to the identity of both parents. From this point of view, the example of Spain, where both names are systematically joined, is often cited. Maybe we'll have to think about it later.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u217	We agree, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u218	Maybe. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential and urgent to change the law. The need for a ground deemed legitimate, the submission to a heavy procedure involving the publication of a decree of the Ministry of Justice, with a rate of acceptance of applications less than 50%: all this is no longer in line with the requests. It is for this reason that our country's jurisprudence has evolved in recent years, recognizing the legitimacy of the emotional motive in requests for name change. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Therefore, this bill, by providing a relevant response to real problems, without weakening the law of filiation, must enter into force quickly. That is why our group will vote for this text and thank the rapporteur for his work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u219	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u220	While yesterday it was a patriarchal reference, in 2002 the name became a marker of equality in the couple, the legislator having replaced the patronymic name with the family name, allowing the parents to attribute to the child who has just been born the name of the father, the mother's name or both at the same time, in the order they wish. The name can become a tool of freedom for parents and children. It is this possibility that the present bill, tabled on the initiative of our colleague Patrick Vignal and supported by the La République en marche group, promotes, by extending the conditions for wearing the name of the parent who did not transmit his or her name to the birth of the child. It is a simplification text, strictly limited to the surname of the parents.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u221	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u222	It will create new rights for minors and those who have become adults. For minors, first of all. Too often, parents whose children do not bear the name, whether or not they are separated from their spouses, find themselves in difficult situations: questions are asked, proofs are asked by the school, or the hospital, during registrations for activities, on a trip to France or abroad, which pollutes the daily lives of many French and French people. The purpose of the proposed law is therefore to introduce into the Civil Code the procedure allowing these parents to have their child bear their name as their use. Codifying would make such a possibility better known to parents, but not only. The text also provides that a minor, subject to his or her consent, if he or she is over the age of 13, may bear as his or her usual name the name of the parent who has not transmitted his or her own, if both parents agree or if only one of the parents so wishes, but informs the other, who will then have the opportunity to oppose it. Beyond its symbolic value, this simplification is essential in order to change the daily lives of parents who will no longer have to continually justify their bond of filiation with their child. This text will also be a vehicle of freedom for the adult child who wishes to bear the family name of the parent who did not transmit it to him, either as a use or by changing his name. Some may decide to add or substitute the name of the other parent for use, without affecting children or civil status. The text will thus provide children with the same possibility as members of the married couple, who may decide to bear the name of the other member as usual, by joining or replacing the other member. Others will be able to make a stronger choice – it will be so, because it will have consequences on the name of their own children – that of changing the name mentioned to the civil status, by adding one parent's name to the other's name or by replacing it. As the previous speakers have pointed out, such a choice can be justified for a wide variety of reasons, whether one does not want to see the parent's name extinguished, whether it is to show his or her attachment and recognition to one or the other of his or her parents, or, conversely, to detach himself or herself symbolically from an abusive parent. Until 2014, such a choice was almost impossible, since such applications did not fall within the scope of the change of name procedure provided for in Article 61 of the Civil Code. It provides that the application to the keeper of the seals must be based on a demonstration of the existence of a "legitimate interest": however, the various seal guards and the Council of State had ruled out the emotional motives as such. It was only on 5 March 2014 that the High Court, influenced by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), evolved, judging that a child who became an adult could now refer to an emotional motive as the basis for his or her application. Article 2 of this text provides for further action, allowing the applicant to emerge from the complexity, randomity and length of the current procedure. A simple procedure will allow each child who has become an adult to benefit from the same choice for his or her name as his or her parents at birth tomorrow. In this way, he may choose to add to his name the name of the parent who did not transmit his name or choose to bear only that name instead of that of the other parent. This option can only be exercised once. As has been recalled, the procedure will be to seize the registrar, who will affix the new name on the sidelines of the birth certificate. To make such a request, it will not be necessary to justify a particular reason, if not the desire to bear a name that is the reflection of its history – it will be all the more beautiful or even less difficult to bear. Some on these benches fear that this text will weaken our society, that the security that surrounds the name will be called into question. Let them be reassured. The principles will remain the same; the general rules on the attribution and devolution of the surname will remain unchanged;...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u223	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u224	... the change of name procedure will continue to apply only to those who wish to change their name or have a different name and the bond of filiation between the minor or adult child and his or her parents will not be affected: it will remain intact. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you have understood, the Republic on the move Group is convinced of the need for this bill, based on the principles of equality and freedom, which we have been constantly promoting since 2017. We'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u225	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u226	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u227	Here we go! We have arrived at the end of this quinquennium, with what will probably be the last text defended by the majority group, that of the Republic on the move, in the field of justice. This law has been described as a "great law" by the keeper of the seals. A great law could have been a profound reform of the justice system, which so much needs it, or a law allowing the expulsion of convicted aliens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u228	Extraordinary! You should come more often!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u229	But no: your last major text aims to facilitate the change of surname – that says a lot, I will come back to it. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, with you place Vendôme, we were going to see what we were going to see. Well, we saw. We were promised Robert Badinter; We had Pierre Arpaillange. You have managed to bring together against you almost all the professionals of justice, who have shown themselves to a great extent again last December, following a forum co-signed by 6000 magistrates – out of the 9000 that the country counts – due to the dilapidation of the judicial institution. The courts lack human resources – it is the son of a clerk who tells you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u230	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u231	The software used is obsolete. France spends 70 euros per capita on its judicial system, when Germany spends 131. However, you regularly gargle your balance sheet and, today, we are studying a bill on name change. There is no need to take refuge behind so-called budget increases because, as you well know, they mostly fund legal aid.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u232	You weren't here to vote on this budget!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u233	The magistrates remain desperately deprived, but we will not talk about it. The budget for justice in 2017 was 8.5 billion; In 2021, it is 8.2 billion, but we will not talk about it. Where are the 15,000 prison places promised by Emmanuel Macron? We won't talk about it – you don't want to talk about it. As for convicted foreigners, your record is frightening, but we will not talk about it. Some 16% of those convicted in France are not French nationals, but you do not want to talk about it, because the question requires something other than words and debates. She's asking for courage.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u234	You're out of the ground!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u235	You speak loud, you speak loud, but you have done so little. I remember your first speech when you arrived at the Chancellery. You announced that your door would be "open to all." It has remained desperately closed; You acted as a sectarian and brutal man. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] As Emmanuel Macron's election campaign began, you announced a few days ago the recruitment of an additional 200 magistrates. The French will not be impressed by these games of dupe. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group. – Mr. Keeper of the Seals laughs]] Despite this calamitous record, we are gathered for this final text, which aims to deconstruct identity – identity, a word that you do not like very much. Indeed, this proposal for a law facilitating the change of name is part of the philosophical continuity of the uprooting of individuals, of the deconstruction of the family to the benefit of the most exacerbated individualism. This text is consistent with your value loss policy, where everything is interchangeable. As I said in the debate on the vaccination pass, for you, a merchant, a restaurant owner, must turn into an identity checker, because, yes, everything is interchangeable. Everyone must be able to change their profession, place of life, sex, name, political party and region – as you did, without ever returning to the North, when he had so kindly welcomed you. With you, everything can be modified with a feather stroke! Wonderful liberal society, without limits, without restraint, without balance, without attachment, without history!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u236	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u237	In order to allow for a change of name, without any legitimate restriction or justification, individual rights will now take precedence. Of course – we can talk about it – this bill will meet some individual expectations. I don't despise them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u238	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u239	But the law in force already allows a lot. You are the example: it allows the child to associate the name of his father with that of his mother. It also allows you to wear a pseudonym or a user name. Yes, a lot is already possible. Therefore, it is not the affective or the emotional that must take precedence, it is the general interest. There are many inconsistencies in this text. If a parent changes his or her name, but his or her children over the age of 13 do not want to, will they have a name different from their parent? Similarly, you want to allow a minor to change his or her name, but perhaps he or she will then regret a choice influenced by his or her parents. As you understand, we will not support this text. If, as I said, it can respond to a few specific cases, it is actually a deconstruction signal, which has far more disadvantages than advantages.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u240	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u241	The deputies of the National Rally will not support this text, which adds a new stone to individualism. He'll be your last lap. It is in this capacity alone that he is a source of joy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u242	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u243	[["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Goodbye, and good wind, Master Dupond-Moretti!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u244	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u245	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u246	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u247	This bill is presented as a simplification text, but agree that it is not just that. It raises a lot of questions, and it is far from being annoyed, because it will have important consequences. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, if we stick to the examples you have given, things seem obvious. We are touched by the example of this woman who has divorced and must constantly prove that she is the mother of her children because she no longer bears the same name as them, or by the example of those who bear the name of their executioner. In these cases, of course, the law has to be changed: steps are already possible, but they can be simplified. All right. However, your bill also raises real questions, which have not been answered in committee, let alone in the impact assessment, since there are none. From a philosophical point of view, the father's name is a means of recognizing the father in filiation and it is not neutral. Is this bill not going to upset the construction of identity even further? Sylviane Agacinski notes: "The civil status is the institution of the person in his social identity, his symbolic inscription in a genealogy, an order that does not depend on him, and everyone cannot decide on the common law. » Mr rapporteur, I have also asked you a few questions in committee. For example, will this bill not make it easier for debtors to evade their obligations, or, we have already seen such cases, for offenders to escape prosecution? What would be the consequences for the organisation of the state if the French changed their surnames massively, which is also a general police tool? The bill is of course of good intent, but it raises issues that are far from minor and whose consequences, far from being anodized, might, contrary to appearances, only appear in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u248	I have before me four identical amendments, Nos 10, 18, 50 and 78. I call Mr Thibault Bazin to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u249	The purpose of section 1 is to further amend the rules relating to the use name and name change. However, some relaxations have already been introduced: the Act of 23 December 1985 allows any person to add, as a custom, the name of the parent who has not been transmitted to him. The Act of 4 March 2002, as amended by the Act of 18 June 2003, granted parents the right to choose the child's surname: either the name of the father, the name of the mother, or their two names in the order chosen by them. The Act of 17 May 2013 supplemented this scheme with a view to improving equality between parents; In the event of disagreement between them, the Court terminated the rule which, by default, assigned the father's name and provided for the child to be given a name composed of each parent's name in alphabetical order. Considering that the change of name is already possible, it is not appropriate to further relax the rules, as there is a real risk of instability of civil status. Rather, the inaccuracies that have existed for children born between laws, and which sometimes create inconsistencies in the names assigned, should be addressed. The liberalization of civil status, based on a logic of individualism, will indeed be able to contribute to the destructuring of the institution of the family. National representation must protect the family, because it embodies the future of the nation. That is why the aim of the amendment is to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u250	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u251	Many of us have a real difficulty with this text. Let us understand, it does not concern an answer that could be given to particular sufferings – and I look at a part of the audience in the gallery that is there. Who can deny the difficulties of bearing certain surnames? Who can deny the difficulty of bearing the name of a father who was not, in fact, a father, especially if one was a child or a young adult, a victim of domestic violence? All these elements are obviously to be taken into account. We are in 2022 and society must respond to these questions and adapt to suffering; It's obvious. Nevertheless, the text you are proposing, Mr rapporteur, introduces a form of simplification to the extreme. Your answer to a real question is not the right one. You are in such a desire to simplify that a simple CERFA form, a simple administrative document, will allow a profound change in a civil status that must not be shaken. Today, neither the use names nor the possibility of having a dual name pose any particular difficulty. The amendment provides an opportunity to question the Government beyond deletion, since Article 1e r essentially codifies the existing law: it is not the subject. But, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, how can a change of identity be so unnoticed? How do I avoid an impact assessment? How can we ignore the opinion of the Council of State, on a subject as important as the family name, which is far from being as commonplace as we would like to present it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u252	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u253	As is often the case with this type of text, it happens in catini: we start from particular cases and we exploit them for very political purposes. We will have the opportunity to come back to the subject during our discussions. We do not deny the difficulties that may exist in some families, but we consider that other solutions were possible. The existing law could have been simplified. Changing the name is a serious matter: the passage by a judge seems to us necessary and the legitimate reason for the necessary change of name. But your logic is to transform the civil code – formerly the code of the family – into a code of the individual: we are in a total logic of individualism. [[Long exclamations on several banks of the LaREM group]] Another thing bothers me in this case: these are the words you say about fathers. You yourself, Mr rapporteur, yourself, Mr Minister, in your remarks, the father is a systematically violent, even rapist. These are the words I heard in the gallery! Think more about the tragedies of children who are deprived of a father; Instead, think of the tragedies of fathers who no longer have access to their children. You mentioned, Mr. Rapporteur, those children who did not know their father. I have in mind a great character of the Republic, born in 1943. His father was killed in September 1944 in the Vosges: he did not know him and his life consisted of honoring his memory. From this he overcomes all the obstacles of his personal life and political life. Let us stop denying the role of fathers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u254	Amendment No 78 by Mr Sébastien Chenu is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u255	[[Ms. Alexandra Louis applauds]] I will clarify one point: Article 1 deals only with the use name and not with the change of surname. Mr Le Fur, none of the people who spoke questioned the probity of the fathers. We simply want fairness, justice and equality. Your remarks are at the limit of the acceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u256	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u257	You thought you had to hear what we did not say, and that is a shame, in a debate that must be of quality. You have been shaken, I believe, by the various testimonies that have been mentioned, these everyday situations that lead us to amend the law, to simplify practices. As I said, it is a text of freedom and equality. Madame Ménard, the delinquents will be followed. Indeed, when a change of name is adopted at the Chancellery, after lengthy steps – which are not always successful, and for cause – the criminal record, now fully computerized, is immediately informed. If it was enough to change the name to go under the radars of justice, you can imagine that, not for a moment, I would not have considered defending this text. Everything is done automatically. You're afraid of civil status, but I said it in my speech – I don't want to go back to it: the registrar obviously has the habit of doing this, and this has been going on for a long time, I was going to say. Now, as for Mr Chenu's insults... Mr Chenu, I have defended more than twenty-five texts since I was in office: I have not seen you once in committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u258	I'm not a member of the Law Commission!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u259	I have never seen you defend an amendment in the House! The only amendment that I remember was tabled by Mrs Le Pen: it was intended to prosecute journalists when, in her view, they violated the secrecy of the investigation, to which they were not bound.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u260	Anything! Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u261	Mr. Chenu, you can say 20 times "anything! You are very rarely present in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u262	More than you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u263	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Mrs. Le Pen is never there. Marine Gatineau Dupré, who has done everything possible to defend this text, for eighteen months that I have been a minister, will have been more present here than yours, of Marine! So insults are fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u264	What insults?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u265	You spoke to me in the gallery for three minutes, Mr. Chenu: that's your way of doing it. As for the qualifiers that you reserve for me, as regards the comparisons that you make between the various lawyers whose names you know, I would like, since you wished me well, to ask me simply if you wished Mr. Collard a good wind when he left you a few days ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u266	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u267	Now, that's enough, we're gonna raise the debate, you understand? It must be said that it is difficult with you, because you always choose low instincts, you like to flatter them, that's what you make your butter with. The question is very simple, Mr Chenu of the National Front: do we help women who are in trouble when they raise their children alone? Are we allowing women who have been raped by their father to get out of this past they no longer want?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u268	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u269	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are simple things, all beasts, close to people, you see, far from the incantatory of which you make your butter and honey. The French are watching us: they will appreciate it. If you knew, sir, how many letters I received, you wouldn't risk doing what you did during the election campaign. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u270	The level of the seal guard!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u271	Stay five more minutes and then leave as you usually do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u272	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u273	Mr. Keeper of the Seals, I would like to respond, because you are telling me that there is no problem for offenders who would like to use this procedure to escape prosecution. You are right since the request for a change of name is now formalized in the form of a motion addressed to the Minister of Justice – and therefore to you – with various documents, including Bulletin number three of the criminal record, for persons of age. You're absolutely right; But that's the current procedure. If, tomorrow, we can change our name with a simple CERFA form, there will be no more applications for a criminal record! The request for a criminal record will no longer exist, and thus the criminal record will be completely obscured. Moreover, this already happens: there have already been cases, people have been tried. I have before me a case that occurred in 2017: in order to escape prosecution, a person had found it necessary to change his identity. It was later caught up, but it proves that people are already changing their identity when it's complicated: if, tomorrow, it's much easier, what safeguards have you planned? I am not insulting you, I am not kidding: I am asking you this question, which is a concern for me, because I know that this possibility already exists in a complicated procedure. I would like to know what safeguards are provided for under a simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u274	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u275	I want to reply to Mrs Ménard, because her concern is obviously legitimate. I'll even say more, Madame Ménard: I share it. Today, if an offender who has changed his name is not caught, it is not because the investigators would not read the Official Gazette! Indeed, a translation is carried out immediately, whether it is a change of surname or first name. In addition, the criminal record is completely digitized. As you can imagine, we will take every precaution to ensure that proper transmission is carried out as soon as the name change occurs in the civil registry, which will allow the follow-up. In fact, the question is not just about the criminal record: I am thinking of taxes. You could tell me, but then whoever's gonna change his name won't pay taxes anymore? Well, no, Mrs. Ménard. Of course, all administrations will be informed immediately by the civil registry. This is what is happening today: it is a continuum. I said earlier to some of your colleagues that they did not have to worry about difficulties. A fear has been expressed, inherent in the fact that the registrar could not or could not do: yes, he knows how. Administrations are alerted to name changes, it is an obligation. You don't become an unknown by changing your name: you only changed your name. I want to reassure you completely on this point. If I have to, I'll give it a circular back-up, but I think it would be superfetal. Of course, I will look closely at the issue: we will be very attentive to all these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u276	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u277	I also have very specific questions to ask you, and then we will leave you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, to your discussions with Mr. Chenu. Of course, our questions are very concrete and of a legal nature, but this is the failure of the Committee on Laws: we address ourselves to the guardian of the seals, Minister of Justice, who plays an important role, especially in matters of civil status. You say that you will consider the question, but at this stage of the debate, the answers should be available.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u278	Don't make your Chenu!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u279	You say that the transmission is automated in the department. This is the case today, because some of the name change files go through the department and you are therefore aware of them. If the text is adopted, it will be known to the municipality of the applicant's domicile, or his place of birth, by a simple CERFA form. It would therefore be interesting to know how the information would be transmitted, particularly to administrations, and whether it would be brought to the attention of the public. What will happen to personal data, for example, in relation to the "informatics and freedoms" law? It concerns very specific elements, the text of which does not say anything. What about a summons, published with a given name? Will the judicial procedure be interrupted because the name is no longer the right one, making the prosecution stop immediately? Should the procedure be restarted? These are very specific questions, which must be answered. Will a payment order, published with a given name, remain valid once the person has changed his or her identity? I'm not saying it's a change of person, but we want the seal keeper to provide specific answers to these questions in order to enlighten us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u280	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u281	Article 1 concerns the name of use and aims to facilitate life, especially for mothers, who face daily difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u282	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u283	The debate is under way!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u284	Mrs Ménard, when a woman marries and adopts her husband's name as her usual name, she obviously cannot escape justice, and it is happy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u285	You know that very well!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u286	Court proceedings always take into consideration filiation, with the names of the parents. This will not be the case with Article 2. In committee, some argued that the name change would allow creditors to escape. If one could escape justice or creditors, that would be true! There are much simpler techniques, some of which master very well. The aim of this article is to facilitate the lives of mothers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u287	Yes! Let's go back to Article 1!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u288	Many of them are involved. I have received thousands of testimonies, some even in my surroundings, from people who face practical difficulties when they have to justify being the mother of a child. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u289	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u290	I agree with Mrs Louis: we are debating the change of name, whereas Article 1 concerns only the use name. We will be able to address these issues in the discussion of Article 2, but it is important to stress this point, since we are going to vote on amendments to delete Article 1. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Then, Mr. Le Fur, you cite the example of a child who carried with honour and pride the name of his father who died during the war. With this law, he could continue to wear it as well. Imagine a child whose resistant mother died during the war to save France. With Article 2, which we will vote earlier, he could also bear his name with honour and pride. This responds well to your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u291	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u292	We're studying article 1. It provides that a parent who has not been able to give his or her child a name of use may do so, by informing the other parent, unless the juxtaposition of the names has a ridiculous effect. If the other parent does not share this intention, the text reverses the logic currently at work: he will be able to seize the judge and explain his position. We will have time to consider Article 2, but we must have a real debate on Article 1. Indeed, as Alexandra Louis pointed out, it concerns thousands of women, and men, who are embarrassed in their daily lives. So let's talk about Article 1: we'll discuss Article 2 later, because we have questions about your comments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u293	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u294	When I listened to Mr Schellenberger during the general discussion, I thought for a moment that the Republican Group would vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u295	I was perfectly sincere!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u296	You weren't far from it. Perhaps I thought that there was a flaw in your group, or that its members had not remained insensitive to certain arguments. They're Republicans, for the vast majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u297	For the whole thing! Stop handing out good and bad points!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u298	For the whole thing! You say so, but the question-and-answer sessions to the Government give me a demonstration of the opposite every week.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u299	Stop doing politics like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u300	I sincerely believed that you would vote for the text. By hearing you talk about problems related to the criminal record in particular, I thought it was a trompe l'oeil debate: in order not to be destabilized by your own emotions, you are trying to put sticks in our wheels with technical objections. But they are falsely technical. I would like to reassure you of the implications of Article 2, even if the immediate debate concerns Article 1. The name change results in a transmission to the National Identification Register of Natural Persons (NIPPs). The registrar shall transmit to INSEE the name information in order to update this national register, which the municipalities abound in the preparation of the civil registration documents or in the updating of entries on their margin. Organizations such as banks, insurance, administrations and FranceConnect, within the framework of the single electoral register, are also seeking this national directory to certify identities – and you know that, Mr Gosselin, because you are too fine a lawyer to ignore it. In addition, the national criminal record may be the first to receive a monthly extract from that register. The question does not deserve further consideration. The procedure is not through a department but through a number on the national register. It is very clear and secure: you have absolutely no fear to have.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u301	I call Mr Gosselin to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u302	He's forbidden, but I want to go back to our questions. Ms. Ménard asked legitimate questions. Mine emerged as a result of the debate, although it did not concern Article 1 which, as I said, does not pose an existential problem to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u303	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u304	In the course of a debate, questions do not arise at the best time. The answers you have provided with respect to section 1 are correct, and I have no objection.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u305	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u306	The national register exists well, the procedure is solid. On the other hand, we shall return to the examination of article 2, which does not concern the name of use but a complete change of civil status, on matters relating to criminal procedure and other implications. I am not trying to do a blow: these are too important topics. They are not only about people who experience personal situations – emotional, difficult, for various reasons – that are entirely legitimate and respectable. Such measures have a wider impact on society and cannot be ignored. I say it so that our way of doing things is clear and we don't send out bird names all the time – the question doesn't deserve it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u307	I never used bird names!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u308	Not for me! The debate must be as calm as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u309	Don't you want Chenu!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u310	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u311	Paragraph 2 does not refer to the names of children but rather to the names of the spouses. There is no risk of blurring genealogy. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u312	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u313	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u314	Mrs Coralie Dubost has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u315	I have listened to the colleagues of the Republican Group and those sitting above them, who therefore belong to the National Rally or to the far right in general. I listened calmly to you during the general discussion, then to Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1. The latter concerns the name of use, but you already refer to the content of Article 2. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I want to respond generally to all your comments on the family. You're in the fatality register. In your opinion, the situation at a given point in time must never be changed again. However, Mr Patrick Vignal's proposal, which our group supports, aims to resolve the difficulties faced by many people who are suffering, without undermining all the rules governing the functioning of our society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I've been listening to you for a long time, gentlemen. On the LDC – medically assisted procreation – for all, you have chipped; on paternity leave, you have chipped; on the opening of the adoption, you have chipped; on equality between women and men in the economic sphere, you've broken down; Unsurprisingly, on the possibility of changing your name, you're chipping. We refuse that the situations of families, children, mothers and fathers should be fatal: we propose solutions for dignity, freedom and equality. We don't want to chip!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u316	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u317	I cannot let this speech by Mrs Dubost, who seeks to caricature positions in the debate, pass without reacting. We have to move on.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u318	Mrs. Dubost would be good too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u319	Do not dramatize nuances: your group has been, as many as others, crossed by disagreements and tensions. It's good that they can speak here. As I pointed out in the general discussion, the LR Group is in favour of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u320	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u321	That does not prevent us from discussing certain details in order to understand: if we do not do so now, we will never do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u322	There's no impact assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u323	The impact assessment is the citizens!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u324	On the other hand, we have reservations about article 2. We are divided as to the scope of its scope. Yet we are all in favour of making life easier for the French. It is not because the election campaign is approaching that we must caricature the positions of each other. Mrs Dubost, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, do not speak too hard, the coming weeks will give you enough opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u325	Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u326	It is a feminist amendment: like this text, it aims to put an end to a patriarchal social system. Indeed, many women bear witness to their annoyance at the habit, marked by a certain sexism, which the economic, social and professional actors have taken by default to assign to them the name of their husband as soon as they marry, even though they have not chosen it as their usual name. It is then up to them to undertake often lengthy, embarrassing, humiliating steps to justify their choice to keep their birth name, together with the administrative difficulties involved in the simultaneous subsistence of two names. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to make it clear that the name of birth remains by default the name of the individual until he or she expressly wishes to use another used name.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u327	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u328	I agree with you: a woman must have the choice whether or not to bear her husband's name. No one should impose that name on him. However, in practice, some administrations or companies, out of ignorance, do not always respect this principle: this is not normal. Your amendment is, however, satisfied with the existing law, since the law already provides that the use name is optional.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u329	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u330	This proposal for a law should make it possible to do pedagogy with regard to administrations and businesses on this point. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u331	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u332	If I fully understand the meaning of your amendment, I would nevertheless ask you to withdraw it. Indeed, the civil code is already very clear: the name of use is the person's free choice and cannot be imposed by third parties. The problem that you raise – legitimate, but not to become a concern – is the inertia of the practice of certain administrations or private institutions, which ex officio assign the husband's name to the married woman. The civil code, which is our guide in this area, is perfectly clear. In the absence of a withdrawal, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u333	Mr Xavier Breton has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u334	It is intended to delete paragraphs 3 to 6. If we table deletion amendments, it is to invite the debate, because this bill has not been the subject of any impact assessment or opinion of the Council of State. However, provisions relating to civil status are amended, according to the same method which has prevailed for texts of the same type: special cases are mentioned by giving first names and ages; Of course, we understand these situations, since we also know them. Each time, it is presented to us as an additional freedom for such a person, but it does not change anything for others. Then, when the law is enforced, many problems arise. Today, lawyers and philosophers – like Sylviane Agacinski – wonder: they represent all the currents of thought. Our duty, ladies and gentlemen, yes, it is to chipoter, not to be the simple godillots that applaud,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u335	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u336	... the texts submitted by such a member of the Government or by such a member of the Government. Our role in the opposition is to ask questions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u337	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u338	... while yours is to answer it, do not dislike it. You would, of course, like the debates to be quick, you would only like to stay on display by mentioning your innumerable examples of letters. But we are here not in the affective,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u339	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u340	I'm in the affection!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u341	...but in the law. You're talking about love and suffering, but it's not the place, even if they exist in society. Our role is to create law, to apply it and to consider all possibilities. Excuse us for remaining in this register: this is our understanding of the role of legislators and we assume it. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have mentioned, in a somewhat unwise manner, the trembling hand of the legislator: we will continue to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u342	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u343	Unfavorable opinion. We have, Mr. Breton, worked with the Chancellery and with lawyers. These paragraphs allow the use name to be entered in the civil code because of filiation, in order to improve its accessibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u344	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u345	I didn't dare to use the term "chipotage," because I thought it was unacceptable to your ears, but you did. I'll explain things. There is nothing definitive about minors, since it is the name of use. As for the majors – who are, I hope, vaccinated – they choose, from a field of possibles that is not very open: the name of the father or the mother. The order may be changed. It is therefore not complicated, there are no forty solutions and, I repeat, we are addressing majors. The other provisions have, I believe, been perfectly marked. You pretend not to be in the affectionate, but that is the case. What's the question? My mission, as I see it, then, afterward, I will be pushed by the wind...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u346	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u347	Yes, since we are in a great democracy...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u348	In the direction of the wind!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u349	You can't say that about me, because it doesn't fit me! More seriously, my mission and yours – they are the same – is to improve people's lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u350	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u351	There is one point on which I do not entirely agree with you. It is a matter of semantics and would probably lead us into too long debates: is it the law that makes society or is it society that should lead us to change the law? It is the evolution of society that must lead us to do so. [[Mr Raphaël Schellenberger acquiesce]] In fact, Mr Schellenberger has expressed this perfectly because he is a modern man, who has understood the modern family and its difficulties: basically, what you said, I could have said, if you had not stopped in such a good way to address matters of detail. You dare not tell us, as if it were a heretic sacrilege, that we are right to promote this text. I do not understand you, because many people are waiting for him: in this regard, I have proposed to show you the letters that I have received and which call upon us, because you represent the French people, and I myself, the Government. This subject deserves a trans-partisan approach, because it is a good text. I hear your questions about the criminal record – you talked about chipping. On this point, the text is square and very simple: for a minor, it is only the name of use,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u352	With the agreement of both parents!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u353	... indeed, with the consent of both parents, failing which one speaks to the judge, as every time there is a dispute. The one who does not agree will bear the costs of justice, which seems fair to me. As for the majors, the choice belongs to them. To take a lighter example than the drama I mentioned earlier, what is the answer to the lady who has a prestigious name – perhaps even the one you mentioned, Mr. Le Fur – and who wants to pass it on to her children? Nothing, we bow, because this is not currently possible. It would be great to allow a woman to perpetuate a prestigious family name. There are a thousand hypotheses, impossible to summarize, because they are infinitely numerous. Many people look at us and want us to pass this bill, which is simple and not at all destructive of the family. I hope that we will agree on this text. We have already done so. When Senator Billon proposed a text that I found very useful and meaningful, I supported it, without asking myself any questions. I could multiply the examples. I say again, my door has always been open to people in good faith, and I know you in good faith.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u354	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u355	Mr. Keeper of the Seals and Mr. Rapporteur were very clear. I have read the explanatory memorandum to your amendment, Mr Breton. I am surprised that you were talking about "bringing fratries out" because of a common name. You also evoke a "disruption in the construction of identity": either you are above ground or no one around you is concerned. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] There are currently many single-parent families, single mothers, single fathers: how would wearing a common name help to upset identity or break fratries? He doesn't change anything. The role of parents is to ensure that the child is built and well developed, it is not just a question of name: we are all confronted with this type of experience, around us, in our families, personally. There is no need to have a common name to know where we come from and where we want to go.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u356	I call Mr Le Fur to support Amendment No. 45.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u357	Our colleague Xavier Breton has said this and I repeat: the texts we are looking at are intended to provoke, in catini, important breaks under practical appearances. Our visions are different: you have an individualistic conception of the law, while we consider that transmission also counts. I said "in catimini": I will illustrate my point. This is a proposal for a law and the Council of State has not been consulted, although the regulation allows it. Similarly, we do not have an impact assessment, we have very few elements. Nevertheless, the accelerated procedure has been initiated: there will be only one substantive debate in the Assembly and then one in the Senate. But the question of the name deserves more discussion, because it is not only the property of an individual, it is the way in which it is called in the whole social body, in the public place, which counts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u358	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u359	Why such haste, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, when this may be the last text of this legislature?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u360	Because I like this text!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u361	[[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Because your goal is to win the societal left.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u362	This has nothing to do with the right and the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u363	Yes! Your reflections prove this, ladies and gentlemen: it is for you to win the societal left, since the social left has disappeared, alas. That is also why we will be considering, in a few days' time, the text aimed at extending the abortion period from 12 to 14 weeks. All these texts have the same object, which is not anecdotal or not only aimed at improving everyday life, as you would suggest: they are elements of rupture, very political.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u364	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u365	Do you think, Mr Le Fur, that someone who has been sexually abused considers that it is the left who will vote in favour of this text? Do you think about the mother who has to justify being the mother, taking the plane, or the woman who gives life but can't give her name? I will be very clear, I repeat: Article 1 does not allow the name to be changed; It's only about the use name. Currently, it is possible to add the use name of a parent who has not given his name, but through the Chancellery. This applies to 2000 to 3000 requests per year, which are often sources of conflict. The purpose of the bill is therefore freedom, equality and equity in the couple. Your amendment is intended to delete the name of use because of filiation, which currently exists and does not pose any difficulties. On the contrary, the use name must allow parents who have not passed on their names to their child to perform acts of daily life with them and for them. There is no risk of regrets. It is already possible to change the name of use, for example by requesting its identity papers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u366	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u367	Mr. Le Fur, you lend us some political ulterior thoughts that are actually yours.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u368	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u369	I'm sorry to tell you. I defend this text because I find it beautiful, useful and simplifies people's lives. It's no more complicated than that. I very much appreciated Mr Schellenberger's remarks; He's not far from thinking the same thing. Now, either you do little "pol", or we join together to move forward on this text that people are waiting for. The rapporteur is right, they do not wonder whether this is a left-wing or a right-wing measure. Mr. Le Fur, do you think that the woman who has to show her family booklet to register her child in judo is asking these questions? It's only you who ask them, it's really a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u370	Mr Raphaël Schellenberger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u371	Beyond the political debates that arise in this chamber, which is a good sign since they prove that it is alive, this amendment raises an interesting intellectual question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u372	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u373	I formalise it: who are the minors concerned by the need to have a name of use in everyday life? The parents of this generation of miners we are talking about today have already been able to choose to accept their two names.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u374	Not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u375	This means that this generation finds itself in a situation where parents change their minds...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u376	Change your life first!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u377	... for various reasons and carry with them the identity of the minor, which still raises a question. We are not in the event that parents have not been able to give their names to the minor. Parents have made a choice and, during the child's minority, feel the need to change the child's name of use, or simply want it. I once again put the terms of the debate so that our remarks are very precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u378	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u379	Mr. Le Fur, you said it was an electionist measure. But in the House – yesterday, as we have seen again – we are not only voting for social texts, I quote. It's not a right or left problem, it's a heart problem. We're talking about the human.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u380	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u381	I heard that these debates were not appropriate, that we were not there to understand what people could feel. But yes, we are here for that and that is also why we are legislators. We are because people come to see us in our permanences and tell us their story: some lead us to tell us, when the door closes, that we are very lucky. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Please, we can try to take a little height when examining this important text, looked at by thousands of French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u382	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u383	Mr Schellenberger, I will answer you by taking an example. The examples always speak, as it is true that a little drawing is sometimes better than a long explanation, isn't it? Mr. Martin married Mrs. Dubois; their child is named Martin by mutual agreement. Then they get divorced. When they chose the child's first name, they thought it would always last, you see.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u384	Oh, love!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u385	It turns out that this does not always last, despite the precise provisions of articles 212 et seq. of the Civil Code which, like me, you know by heart. They split up and Mrs. Dubois doesn't want to show her family libretto. You didn't deny these complexities, you know them. They made a decision and then changed their minds because in the meantime, they changed their lives. That is the measure we are proposing, it is no more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u386	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u387	Precautions are taken as to the age of the child. This is good for the child because, even in school, he is justified on his surname; It's very complicated. From now on, we can avoid such situations: so let's go, cheerfully do I almost want to add.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u388	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-26-O1135.u389	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the proposed law to ensure equality and freedom in the attribution and choice of name. The meeting is adjourned.
