ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate to repeal obsolete laws for better legibility of the law (No. 4221, 4964).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u2	As this text has not been amended, I shall put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u3	The next item is the discussion, in accordance with the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill of MM. Patrick Mignola, Erwan Balanant, Ms Géraldine Bannier and several of their colleagues aimed at better combining employee share ownership and corporate transfer (No. 4850, 4965).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u4	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u5	The next speaker is the Deputy Minister for Citizenship, in support of Amendment No. 1, which deletes Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u6	The purpose of this amendment is to remove the guarantee of the bill, which is the subject of Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u7	Mr Mignola, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u8	I thank the Government for raising the pledge. However, I would like to reassure all of our colleagues that these provisions will cost the state nothing, because the purpose of the bill is to facilitate the transfer of businesses, resulting in wealth, employment and, consequently, tax resources. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the Finance Committee met this morning. It voted unanimously in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u9	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u10	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution for a fairer representation of the French in the National Assembly (No. 4872).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u11	Mrs Isabelle Florennes spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u12	You will have understood this, given the agenda of the own-initiative parliamentary day of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group, we are, as our name suggests, deeply convinced that democracy is one of our most valuable assets and that we must work continuously to preserve and prosper it. We have therefore wished to make this day a peaceful space for debate, in the image of the democracy we call for, around a few subjects which we believe are central to the functioning of our institutions and to the fight against distrust towards the political world. We will address issues that are not unanimous in our assembly or in each group. But let us not be afraid: from our debates we may have consensus; That's what we're attached to. That is the purpose of the motion for a resolution that I am presenting to you on behalf of my group. It is a fact that our country is experiencing a crisis in its representation. In 2013, Jean-Marc Sauvé, Vice-President of the Council of State, explained that "in political matters, representing can mean three things": first, "to take the place of", that is to say to replace the one we represent, since there is no imperative mandate; Then, "like," that is to say, to be representative of the reality of the country; Finally, "to be the spokesman for". This last sense is probably becoming more and more prevalent. On July 3, 2017, in front of the Congressional Parliament in Versailles, President Emmanuel Macron expressed his will to see French democracy revive "with the variety of reality, with the diversity of French society" which is the profound breath of the democratic vitality of our country. Although France's "multiple [...] reality" entered, to a large extent, the National Assembly in 2017, this evolution is incomplete. That is why I tabled with my group this motion for a resolution for a fairer representation of the French in the National Assembly. We wish to propose appropriate solutions to meet this important challenge, as it goes from the whole chain of legitimacy of our representative democracy. It's not nothing! This essential development is the condition for Parliament and parliamentarians to regain their rightful place: that of an institution experienced as the true emanation of the nation, central to the political organization of the state and constituting a strong element in the regaining of citizen participation. This includes a reform of the voting system. Under the Fifth Republic, the dominant mode of voting is the two-round single-member ballot for the national elections. This dominance, however, has been undermined by attempts to establish a dynamic of proportionalization of national elections. The first was the desire of President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing to reorganise French political life on the occasion of the first election of the European Parliament by universal suffrage in 1979. The second attempt took place in the 1986 parliamentary elections, but its credibility was marred by the political tactics behind its implementation. After these attempts, the return to a logic of locking up French political life was naturally imposed. However, as Jean-Louis Bourlanges said so well, this method of voting makes "the general elections the replica, in the seismic sense of the term, of the presidential election [...]. It's obviously very unhealthy." It is also unfair. Indeed, is it not a blatant injustice to see political currents passing through our country in a fairly powerful and relatively lasting way, without any concrete translation in the parliamentary elections, therefore in our Chamber? This is partly the reason for the lack of interest on the part of our fellow citizens in parliamentary action, which we see year after year. Thus, the rate of abstention increases while the French's disinterest in their MP continues to increase. However, if "Parliament is challenged", it is because, as François Bayrou said, "its composition is too far from the reality of the country". And if Parliament is in dispute, I will let you imagine what will happen next, ladies and gentlemen. This problem affects the legitimacy of our action: that of the laws that we are drafting in this House, that of the control that we must constantly exercise on behalf of our fellow citizens and that we must be able to report to them. It is for this legitimacy that we must fight and strengthen Parliament. This objective of better representativeness of the French within our institution can be achieved with the introduction of proportional voting. We can consider setting a threshold of 5% of votes in order to implement this development expected by our fellow citizens. Indeed, this idea is increasingly shared by the French, as we were able to measure in particular during the great debate. Moreover, the fears expressed by the critics of such a development seem to be overtaken. First of all, it is largely unfounded to fear political and governmental instability, such as that which France experienced under the previous republics. This was concluded by a working group on the future of institutions organized by the National Assembly in 2015, which recalls that this instability was not the result of proportional voting. The report also points out that many countries have adopted this method of voting, sometimes in full, without suffering from it. In fact, in neighbouring countries that have chosen the proportion, particularly Germany, the construction of large majorities and projects helps to make the institutional architecture more robust. The fear of a loss of influence on the President of the Republic vis-à-vis his Prime Minister is also raised. It is unlikely that this will happen in the light of our Constitution, which, in substance and form, makes the most important head of State of the public authorities, but also in the light of the presidential practice since General de Gaulle. If the introduction of a proportional dose, which we have been advocating for a long time – we tabled a bill on this subject a year ago – is a desire increasingly shared by our fellow citizens, it is also because it would bring undeniable legitimacy to the elected candidates and, thus, to our assembly. This development also responds to a demand for citizens to reinvest in the political field. Far from being distorted, commitment, especially political commitment, seems more than ever to be a central value of cohesion for many French people, especially among the younger ones. This commitment is no longer reflected in voting days. No one can be satisfied with it. Changing our voting system would be a strong guarantee for citizens' re-appropriation of civic space. Public opinion has been ready for this for a long time and the political forces have largely moved in this regard. In addition, it is a commitment made after election by successive Executives without ever achieving this reform. Yet it is a measure of justice in relation to the principle of the democratic ideal. That is why, through our motion for a resolution, we invite the Government to reflect on the reform of the voting system of the general elections to make it more representative of the partisan preferences of each elector. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] The whole Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group would be pleased if you would support our approach by adopting this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u13	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u14	The motion for a resolution before us is intended to affirm the need for a fairer representation of the French in the National Assembly. It would be difficult not to agree fully with that stated objective. As is often the case, especially with regard to voting methods, the devil nests in the details. And the wording of the resolution is particularly vague, since it is a question of "inviting the Government to reflect on the reform of the voting system of the general elections in order to make it more representative of the partisan preferences of each elector". On the other hand, the more precise explanatory memorandum refers to "the introduction of a proportional voting system with a representation threshold of 5 %". However, such an indication still leaves us unclear. In essence, this motion for a resolution tells us little about the desired reform: would any constituencies be maintained? If so, on what basis would the redistribution take place? Would proportional voting be to the highest average or to the strongest leftovers? Last but not least, since we are talking about the representation of citizens, is this reform, yes or no, accompanied by another one aimed at reducing the number of parliamentarians? This question is not trivial since this motion for a resolution, tabled by a parliamentary group that supports the Government, falls within the framework of the legislature which saw the failure of the institutional reform of 2018: it seems incompatible to us to want to ensure a better representation of the French in the National Assembly by reducing the number of representatives of the nation. While the Socialist and related group has always been open to changes in the voting system, notably through the introduction of a proportional dose, it has repeatedly expressed its opposition to any reform aimed at reducing the number of Members of Parliament, which would seriously affect the political representation of the population. That is at least one point that should be clarified before we can vote in favour of such a motion for a resolution. Outside these shadow zones, this text makes approximate comparisons. A good example of this is the comparison with Germany, where the Bundestag's elected representatives are not appointed in a proportional electoral system, but in a mixed voting system that combines a majority vote with a ballot and a proportional vote. The distribution of seats in the latter title shall be open only to those parties which have obtained at least 5 per cent of the votes cast or which have succeeded in having at least three deputies elected in the majority vote. The comparison with Germany does not work to demonstrate the efficiency and justice of the voting method you are defending. The introduction of a proportional voting system with a 5 per cent threshold would in this regard be much closer to the Spanish system, whose 3 per cent threshold is reinforced in its majority effects by regional constituencies and a distribution to the highest average. It was under the influence of such an election that the first proportional parliamentary elections were held in 1986 in the history of the Fifth Republic. Finally, this text is based on the understanding received that proportional voting is essentially more democratic than majority voting. It is, however, sufficient to observe all the countries that practice this method of voting to see that this is far from the case. Israel still offers us a sad illustration: it took three legislative elections since April 2019 for this country to have a government, finally constituted in May 2020, at the end of, therefore, 500 days of campaigning. Organised on a single round, the proportional method of voting causes the representation to break down without strengthening the representativeness of the elected representatives. The list-based proportional voting system is favoured by party executives, to the detriment of those elected on the ground who have legitimacy in their constituency. Moreover and above all, the breakdown of representation is far from playing the game of citizens, who have no say in the coalitions formed after the elections. Conversely, the second round of a majority vote allows citizens to arbitrate alliances between different political groups. This is worth noting: the two-round majority vote favours political parties that are able to join each other. This form of bounty to those who are able to form alliances is nothing incongruous in a democratic system, on the contrary. In any case, the re-appropriation of civic space by citizens also requires a strengthening of the work of Parliament, both in the legislative construction and in its task of monitoring the Government's action. While the Socialist and Related Group fully supports the aim of this text of a better representation of citizens, we do not believe that the solution proposed here is the most appropriate one to achieve it. The introduction of a proportional dose is a solution that appears a priori more democratic, but it would in all cases be necessary to know whether this reform would be accompanied by other measures, such as the reduction of the number of parliamentarians, or other measures relating to the functioning of the National Assembly. In the face of such a blur, we prefer to abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u15	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u16	I should like to begin by expressing my gratitude to our colleagues and friends in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, who are giving us the opportunity to discuss this very important and interesting subject this morning. The democratic question is a major one in the eyes of the Working Group, and the crisis of representation is not an illusion but a reality of our world; It has multiple dimensions, multiple meanings. In this democracy, which looks and comments on itself continuously and live and no longer succeeds in appeasing itself, trying to find remedies to our difficulties is commendable. The first of the proposals put forward by the Dem Group today concerns the method of voting. This is a central issue, on which there is no consensus, and which also divides the Action Group together, which has not found a unanimous position. The voting method of our general elections, the single-member, two-round majority, has advantages that cannot be denied: it has clear and consistent majorities, and imposes on the political offer an effort of legibility, since it is obliged to structure itself in advance of the elections. It therefore ensures stability and efficiency. Nor can we deny that this system crushes small formations and diminishes the range of the political offer offered to our fellow citizens, who sometimes find themselves difficult to recognize in the configuration of the assembly that we now occupy the benches. Proportional voting therefore often appears as a panacea: it represents much better the different sensitivities since, with a dozen per cent of the votes, one obtains – according to the practical arrangements chosen, distribution at the highest balance or the highest average – a dozen per cent of the seats. However, there are disadvantages, starting with the crunching of the political offer: why should we structure ourselves upstream if we obtain seats by presenting ourselves as a small independent formation? Therefore, some fear a weakening of the majorities, even if I join Isabelle Florennes on this point: in the streamlined system which is ours, the difficulties are much less than those which we have experienced under the Third or the Fourth Republic. Finally, in a proportional ballot, the lists are constructed by the political apparatus, and citizens are called upon to vote not on persons, but on lists of which they have not chosen the members or the order in which they appear. Proportional voting exists in various forms – in full proportional or proportional dose, in particular. In my view, the essential thing is to open the debate, to launch a reflection that puts on the table all the elements that are likely to feed fertile exchanges. I suggest a personal reflection: we could draw inspiration from the German system, which combines the majority system with the proportional system. It cumulates the advantages of the two without adding up the disadvantages: it makes it possible to obtain majorities without preventing the small formations from being represented. This track deserves to be explored, as I had already argued during the flash mission I had conducted alongside Olivier Marleix, with the valuable help of our mathematician colleague Cédric Villani. There is therefore, in my view, a matter for debate. But I am worried about a debate that would be limited in scope. We cannot, of course, settle everything with a motion for a resolution. However, there are some issues that need to be addressed. Thus, the question of representation is often reduced to that of the National Assembly, whereas it is asked not only in the Senate, but also in the territorial authorities, regions, departments or communes, all strata of representation systematically kept away from the debate. We could also talk about horizontal representation, that of the socio-professional categories that make up the political movements. Perhaps this is a reflection on the composition of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, or even on the prospect of the creation of a third chamber. We will still have to discuss the issues of citizen participation, but the Dem Group is pleased to return to it during the day. I therefore support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u17	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u18	First of all, I would like to thank Patrick Mignola and the whole Dem Group for putting this motion for a resolution on the agenda: we thought that there would never be a question of proportional voting in this House during this parliamentary term. However, it had been the subject of a promise by the President of the Republic: it was abandoned, and the failure of the 2018 constitutional revision is nothing but a pretext, since such a revision was not necessary to establish a form of proportionality. So it is a betrayed promise of President Macron – one more. This debate allows me to return to a number of misconceptions and to the fact that we must draw together the state of political representation in France. The first thing to say is that this finding is sad: we often talk about a crisis of representation; In reality, this representation is distorted by a system which is not intended to represent the French people, but to obtain a majority in the service of the executive. This is the balance found in the Fifth Republic, which I think is increasingly unbalanced. It is true that with 32% of the vote, the current majority has won nearly 350 deputies; It is true that the National Rally, with 13% of the votes, has 8, when France, with 11%, has 17. This can keep our fellow citizens away from the ballot box, when they do not recognize themselves in the binary question of the Fifth Republic: am I for or against the President of the Republic? That is why the nuances that exist in our fellow citizens, but very little is found in the debates in this House. It is also paradoxical that we often talk about the need to recognise the white vote, that is, the vote of people who would like to vote but who feel that they are not being heard, but that we talk very little about those who would not want to vote white, but who know that even if they vote, they will not be represented on these benches, and that they will not have a spokesperson in this House. The electoral mechanism of the Fifth Republic, with the single-member two-round majority vote, actually leads to the erasure of Parliament and the all-power of the executive. Once the majority has been achieved, the President of the Republic, who is already, of all the Western Heads of State, the one who concentrates in his hands the most extensive powers and who has in front of him the least counter-powers, has no parliamentary counter-power against him: the Assembly, whatever the majorities have been in the course of time, always does what the President wants. How many times during the Fifth Republic did the National Assembly oppose the will of the executive when it erred? Almost never. This imbalance accentuates both the weakness of our governance and the remoteness of our fellow citizens from the polls when they are to elect their national representatives. I want to fight another false idea, that of instability. Isabelle Florennes did it very well before me. The countries that have established the proportion are no more unstable than ours; They simply manage to find what is considered a rudeness in France while it is the nobility of politics: coalitions, additions of ideas, compromises, which allow us to move forward and often to share the policies that are led more widely by the citizens. We are the country where, I repeat, the Head of State concentrates the most powers in his hands, with almost non-existent counter-powers; And yet we are the country that is reforming and changing the least, when others – because they are obliged to find compromises between different political forces – reform themselves more and more sustainably. The paradox of the omnipotence of the Head of State and the impotence of the reform should arise far beyond the Dem Group – we have this question in common, I know – and far beyond this Chamber. A method of voting must, from our point of view, have three virtues: to represent as precisely as possible the opinions that go through political life; maintaining a territorial anchor, and that's why the Dem Group's proposal does not seem satisfactory to me, but there are 20 ways to do proportionally – so the subject is not in detail, if I may say so; a relative majority. I also observe that all elections held in France, apart from legislative and departmental elections, are held by proportional ballot. And we're told he's not governing! This has been true for the regions, but there has been a change in the method of voting and the way in which a regional majority is reversed, and while there is no absolute majority in most regions, they are governed, they work. It is therefore not the method of voting that determines exclusively the majority – unless it is entirely submitted to the Head of State, a phenomenon which has worsened with the quinquennium – but the balance of powers. This can be found elsewhere than in the representation mode, but the representation mode cannot be found outside the election mode. That is the balance that we should seek in the next legislature, on the understanding that the Government has decided not to worry about it in the course of the next legislature. This balance would allow us to better represent, to form coalitions, to find compromises, so to reform our country much deeper by bringing together widely. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] All the successive heads of state have had the chance – but it is a bad luck for our country – to be able to govern by listening only to themselves and neglecting all the other actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u19	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u20	The introduction of a proportional dose of parliamentary elections was a formal commitment of the President of the Republic. This commitment was at the heart of the agreement between the Democratic Movement (MODEM), which historically defends this subject, and the Republic on the move, knowing that the MODEM Group is supposed to be a pivotal group of the majority and we seemed to have made respect for this commitment a condition of its support. Where are we five years later? We are debating a non-binding motion for a resolution, which "invites the Government to reflect on the reform of the voting system of the parliamentary elections to make it more representative of the partisan preferences of each elector". [[Exclaims on the banks of the Dem Group]] After five years in power with an absolute majority in the National Assembly, the text, I repeat, "invites the Government to conduct a reflection", two months before the presidential election. This motion for a resolution is therefore nothing less than a demonstration of impotence on the majority and the Government. You haven't even dared to table a bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u21	There's no way you'll be applauded, Mr. Pancher!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u22	Moreover, this motion for a resolution makes no concrete proposal on the modalities for reforming the vote. It is only in the explanatory memorandum that we understand that it is vaguely related to proportionality. But are we talking about a proportional dose – if so, at what level: 10, 20 or 50%? – or are we considering an integral proportional? Would it be proportional to national lists, regional lists or departmental lists? And should these lists be equal? In short, how could the Libertés et territoires group mobilize on such an imprecise text, even though some of its members, starting with me, might be in favour of this method of voting? So let's try to answer on the merits. Proportionalism is a subject that makes no consensus anywhere in France, including within my group. Some consider this method of voting to be a factor of political instability, taking the example of the Fourth Republic in particular.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u23	Oh, there! We've got to get back to history classes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u24	Others point out that its establishment would lessen the link between the MP and his election territory and favour the apparatchiks – numerous in our country – of political parties to the detriment of the elected representatives established and having a sense of the realities on the ground. These criticisms are well-founded, but I am in favour of proportionality. I believe that the priority for our country is to embark on a profound cultural transformation to learn the culture of consensus and collective decision-making. Indeed, the majority system amounts to creating collective imbecility, with a majority always in favour of the texts and an opposition that opposes everything. Things cannot work on a lasting basis in this way: this bipartisan confrontation, often Manichean, is a factor of incomprehension among French and French people, who are increasingly disillusioned. This has, unfortunately, helped to encourage, among other factors, the rise of abstention and voting for extremes. And even if this bipartisan confrontation has diminished over the last five years, to become a multi-party confrontation, it remains that we remain in a conflict logic because of our voting method, which almost automatically gives rise to a large majority in Parliament in the wake of the presidential election. When we are in the majority, we have the nuclear bomb, with the possibility of blowing up the Government, but we never use it. And when you're in the opposition, you only have a water gun: when you try to move things, nothing happens. Therefore, I sincerely believe that proportionality would allow collective intelligence to be recreated in all of our commitments. An integral proportional, why not with regional lists, would give a very different composition of our assembly, which would better reflect the views of the voters. While the majority won only 30 per cent of the votes in the 2017 general election, it has 60 per cent of the seats in our assembly. On the other hand, some parties are barely represented, if not not at all, while they are important currents in our country. This misrepresentation of voters' aspirations poses a problem of legitimacy for elected officials and contributes to increased distrust of political power. Finally, it should be pointed out that such a reform should only be undertaken if Parliament itself is clearly strengthened. What would be the use of proportionality if we did not have the means to act ourselves? We don't have to be just a check-in room. Thus, in our view, the strengthening of Parliament is a necessary crossing point for the introduction of proportional representation, which I support.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u25	Thank you...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u26	Unfortunately, it is not this motion for a resolution, which is vague and unambitious and which will obviously not be implemented, that will allow us to introduce this method of voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u27	Let me remind you that everyone has five minutes to speak and that this time is not indicative. Please respect it. In this way we can look at all the texts proposed by the MODEM Group and hear all the opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u28	Thank you, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u29	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor and therefore for a period of five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u30	[[Smile]] I note that your indication supports a small margin of error of more or less 10%, Mr. President. We are here today to discuss a non-binding text,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u31	It's called a motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u32	... which "invites the Government to reflect on the reform of the voting system of the parliamentary elections to make it more representative of the partisan preferences of each elector". As we have understood, our colleagues in the MODEM Group would like to establish a proportional representation in the general elections. Why, then, have they not tabled a bill to that effect instead of this simple motion for a resolution? They will discuss a matter of procedure and timetable. It is true that article 25 of the Constitution provides that an independent commission must be consulted before any change in the voting procedures is made. However, the objective of our colleagues is in reality to hide the denials of the macro-majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u33	There you go!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u34	In October 2016, at a meeting following his resignation from the Government, former economic minister Emmanuel Macron presented the reform of our voting system as a "necessity". Then, in 2017, newly elected President of the Republic, he argued that a reform of the institutions would be carried out "in a year's time", so that "all sensitivities are accurately represented". This reform was repeatedly postponed, with the last denial going back to the summer of 2019, when a text increasing the proportion of MEPs to 20% was presented in the Council of Ministers, but never being placed on the agenda of our Assembly for discussion. At La France insoumée, we have always remained consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u35	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u36	Indeed, we have consistently called for the introduction of full proportional representation for parliamentary elections. This was the subject of Jean-Luc Mélenchon's bill, which was examined last year as part of our parliamentary niche. True to its political line, the MODEM Group supported it: we thank them again.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u37	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u38	The reform of our voting system is indeed urgent and supported by almost 70 per cent of our citizens. France has already used this method of voting. The proportion was one of François Mitterrand's commitments and proved its worth in the 1986 general elections. A stable majority came from the vote and gave a fair representation of the voters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u40	The objective of obtaining a stable majority is in any case not central with a view to re-establishing this method of voting. It is time to ensure a fairer representation of the French, respecting the diversity of their opinions through the organization of fair parliamentary elections – in this I am unusually in agreement with my two predecessors in this rostrum, Mr. Lagarde and Mr. Pancher. In 2017, the alliance between the Republic on the move and the Democratic Movement had won 30 per cent of the votes in the first round of the general elections, but had won more than 60 per cent of the seats in the National Assembly after the second round. On the other hand, France had won 11 per cent of the vote in the first round of the election, but then had less than 3 per cent of the seats. A full proportional approach would help to revitalize our democracy and put the National Assembly at the centre of political life by reaffirming its legitimacy. It is not just one tool among others to ensure popular intervention in a republic where the sovereignty of the people is limited to voting once every five years, without the possibility of intervening afterwards. In due course, we will carry out this reform, with all the related measures that we propose in our programme "The Common Future", such as the citizens' initiative referendum to propose or repeal a law, the right to remove elected officials, the right to vote at 16 years of age, and I am moving on.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u41	I'm going through with some of the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u42	Interesting question: do we revoke a single elected candidate or the whole list? You have two hours!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u43	Unsuspected blunder, did not Emmanuel Macron himself, in 2020, say that "democratic popular sovereignty is a treasure to keep preciously"? Well, in less than seventy-five days, we will treat this treasure with great delicacy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u44	[[Smile]] Thank you, Mr Prud'homme: the margin of error has been fully respected. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u45	Proportional is a real institutional sea serpent. Promised at regular intervals in the name of fair representation, it is constantly pushed back to the Greek calends. As a candidate, Emmanuel Macron had committed himself to it. Having become President, he confirmed this commitment on 3 July 2017 before the parliamentarians meeting in Congress, stating that he would propose "that Parliament be elected with a proportional dose so that all the sensitivities are accurately represented there". On 9 May 2018, a constitutional bill, an organic bill and an ordinary bill were presented to the Council of Ministers. Among other measures, they included a 30% reduction in the number of parliamentarians and the introduction of a 15% proportional dose of MPs. It is recalled that the review of this reform was suspended following the Benalla case and the texts were withdrawn. The yellow vest movement then revived the subject, which was among the themes of the great national debate wanted by the Head of State in early 2019 to try to get out of the crisis. A new reform project was then detailed by Emmanuel Macron at an address on April 25, 2019. This constitutional reform, presented to the Council of Ministers on 28 August 2019, aimed, among other things, at introducing a 20% proportional dose in the way in which MPs are elected. However, this new reform of the institutions has never been examined, having been set aside and swept away by the health crisis. Despite repeated calls from various political forces, including that of the Democratic and Republican Left, against the Head of State, reminding him of his promise to establish the proportional, he therefore did not keep his word. We have thus met again to consider a motion for a resolution drawn up by the MODEM Group. We welcome this, even if it is limited to inviting "the Government to reflect on the reform of the voting system of the parliamentary elections to make it more representative of the partisan preferences of each elector". Communist Members, who have consistently defended proportional representation for so many years, can only subscribe to what is ultimately only a modest invitation to do so. We will therefore vote on this motion for a resolution. It is a response to the growing distrust of our compatriots, which translates into massive and growing abstention in every new election. Recall that 57% of voters abstained in the second round of the 2017 general elections: never so few French people had gone to vote in this election since 1958. The various surveys conducted year after year highlight this growing dissatisfaction with our democratic life. Recently questioned on this issue, 70 per cent of the French say that the democratic system is working rather poorly in our country and that their ideas are not well represented. The introduction of proportional representation would therefore be an appropriate response, allowing for a more accurate reflection of the different opinions and diversity of society, and for ensuring that each elector has a fairer representation. For while majority voting is often presented as the means of achieving indispensable political stability, it is in reality a distorted and precarious stability that we pay at a high price. Indeed, the less democratic representation seems to accurately reflect the positions expressed in the country, the more institutional mistrust and the political instability sought to be avoided. I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the majority vote used in France to elect Members is an exception in the European institutional landscape. Most countries use proportional, partial or full voting to elect their deputies. If in 2017, such a provision had been adopted, our assembly would have a completely different face, and the absence of an absolute majority within it would have restored to the work of our chamber their central place in the democratic life of the country: the arrogance and the monarchical logics that exasperated so much our fellow citizens should have made room for dialogue and the search for compromise. Finally, beyond better political representation, it is also another face of the country that would have appeared, with greater diversity and a better respect for parity. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Gilles Le Gendre also applauds]] For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u46	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u47	Mr Jean-Michel Mis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u48	Our mission, as Members of Parliament, is to formulate proposals that are balanced, solid and ambitious. The resolutions we adopt in this House must meet the aspirations of society – we can take over – but they also aim to formulate an effective and proportionate response to the challenges we face. The introduction of proportional voting is a political decision; It is expected by a large part of the French. This idea, which has long been defended by François Bayrou, has come its way in the public debate. Nevertheless, while it seems necessary to move towards a fairer and more equitable representation of the various political sensitivities in the National Assembly, we are all aware that a change in the voting rules is impossible before the next presidential and legislative elections. We also know that the Senate has chosen to veto the constitutional reform of 2019. Of which act.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u49	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u50	That is why we are considering today a motion for a resolution that "invites the Government to reflect on the reform of the voting system of the general elections, to make it more representative of the partisan preferences of each elector". I welcome this motion for a resolution tabled by the MODEM Group, because it responds to the growing mistrust of citizens with regard to the system of political representation and aims to strengthen the legitimacy of Parliament. In the first place, the launching of a reflection on the method of voting in the general elections can alleviate "the crisis of membership of politics" observed by the President of the Republic. Faced with the weakness of electoral participation, but also with the growing lack of consideration of voters for their representatives – let us not look at them – we must involve the French in public decision-making and represent them in a fairer way in the National Assembly. There is a crisis of trust between the population and the system of political representation, which is particularly marked among young people and the popular categories. This observation was relayed by the fact-finding mission on the jurisdiction of abstention, led by MPs Xavier Breton and Stéphane Travert and launched at the initiative of President Richard Ferrand. Abstention is more broadly part of a sense of citizens' distrust of the political class. It is therefore essential to restore meaning to citizenship because it is the cement of our republican society. In addition, the launching of a reflection on the voting method of the elections aims to strengthen the legitimacy of our institutions. Parliament must play its full role in the adoption of the law, the evaluation of public policies and the monitoring of Government action. Its position will be reinforced by the representation of the various political sensitivities in the National Assembly. This reform can lead to the construction of large and plural majorities, as there are in Germany, these majorities of ideas dear to President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, whose memory we were honouring yesterday, and to Edgar Faure, whose seat I have the honour of occupying in this House. However, we must remain vigilant because the growing fragmentation of our political landscape can have consequences for the foreseeable effects of proportionalness – I refer you to an excellent article published in Le Monde in 2018. That is why our group is obviously in favour of opening a debate on the method of voting in the general elections. We stress the positive aspects of such a reform while being aware that its implementation can be difficult. Under no circumstances do we envisage changing the voting rules before the presidential and legislative elections. Our position is thus in line with the commitment on institutional reform made on 17 March 2021 by the majority group presidents, Christophe Castaner, Patrick Mignola and Olivier Becht. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u51	The general discussion is closed. The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u52	I would like to begin by welcoming the initiative of the members of the Dem Group, which brings me to address you on the occasion of the consideration of this motion for a resolution for a fairer representation of French and French people in the National Assembly. The point you make about the crisis of electoral participation and the challenges of representation in the National Assembly is clear; It seems to me shared. I believe that our citizens expect their elected representatives to have the courage to reform citizens' participation in the political life of our country. The two-round single-member majority voting system, by which deputies of national representation are elected today, is not the sine qua non for the success of our republican model. It can, and must, always reinvent itself in order to satisfy more the citizen aspirations of representativeness. The Government therefore supports this motion for a resolution. The challenges to the smooth and efficient conduct of democratic activity are very many – I would not pretend to summarize them here – but the electoral abstention that we know more strongly at each election, the distrust that some of our compatriots feel about the way in which our representative system operates prompts us to consider this partial reform of the voting system that you defend. Its objective is commendable: to allow a more faithful representation of the political aspirations of French and French people in this assembly. The Government – some of you recalled – had initiated an ambitious and proactive reflection on this subject, particularly at the end of the great national debate, at which the President of the Republic gave this impetus, many of our fellow citizens having expressed their desire for a parliament more representative of the country's various political sensitivities. This had led to an ambitious institutional reform project, the National Assembly component of which provided for the election of 20 per cent of deputies by a national list vote, to proportional representation beyond a threshold of 5 per cent of the votes cast. If the majority vote allowed, among other things, the stability of government power, this project had to correct its limits. Indeed, the usual electoral procedures could have been supplemented by a national proportional vote applicable to the first round of elections to enable a faithful and direct representation of national political pluralism. I am aware, Mrs Florennes, of your group's commitment to this issue and I would like to commend your determination to ensure the vitality of our democratic life, which is expressed particularly during the electoral period and in the election of the representatives of the nation. I therefore welcome the reflection on the introduction of a supplementary proportional vote, which is more representative of the partisan preferences of voters. Of course, this reflection will have to continue beyond the forthcoming electoral deadlines, and I hope that we will continue to work together, and with perseverance, to strengthen the legitimacy of our institutions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] That is why this motion for a resolution for a fairer representation of French and French people in the National Assembly, defended by your group, seems to us quite appropriate. The Government supports her and thanks MP Isabelle Florennes and her colleagues for this debate, which I hope will feed into government considerations and future parliamentary discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u53	On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. If President Patrick Mignola agrees, I propose to proceed to the vote without waiting for the five regulatory minutes...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u54	[[Smile]] President Mignola still agrees with President Renson!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u55	[[Smile]] I note that President Castaner did not say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u56	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u57	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 67 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 65 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u58	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the establishment of the Territorial Councillor (No. 4871).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u59	[["Happy birthday! » on the benches of the Dem group]] [[Smile]] In the general discussion, the floor was for Mr Philippe Vigier. It seems to me to have understood, Mr. Vigier, that it was your birthday, and I would therefore like to wish you that. But your speaking time will not be extended!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank my colleagues in the Dem Group and its President Patrick Mignola, as well as all the Members for the honour they have given me on this important day, especially since I am defending this motion for a resolution on the Territorial Councillor before you. About ten years ago, I remember sitting on the bench of the committees, as draftsman of the opinion on behalf of the Committee on Finance, of a text proposing the creation of the Territorial Councillor. It was under Nicolas Sarkozy's quinquennium, and it was meant to be an answer to a problem that has become even more burning today. The proximity of elected representatives and the true nature of the role of local authorities are a matter of concern to all our fellow citizens, who wonder about the usefulness of the departmental councillor or the regional councillor. This is not surprising, as our territories have been mistreated: I am thinking in particular of the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic (NOTRE) and its immense cantons – the one where I reside is seventy-two kilometres long! Everyone imagines the proximity of departmental advisors under such conditions... The regional elected representative I have been in for some 20 years knows how often the regional councillor is misidentified in his territory. What is the area for? For our compatriots, for community leaders or business leaders, knowing what door to knock on is a real journey of the fighter: "Oh no! you must address the region... No, it's up to the department... You must address the community of agglomeration... It is the responsibility of the community of communes... » In 2009, Édouard Balladur published a very interesting report, in which a contribution by Philippe Séguin, a character whose intellectual agility is no longer to be demonstrated. He suggested thinking about how to bring departments and regions closer together, without any question of removing either – let's close the door to such a debate! I heard here, a few years ago, a minister of the interior who became Prime Minister explain to us that the departments should be abolished: no! Without being "departmentalist", I know, like all of you and most of the Dem Group's elected officials who have the experience of local mandates, the usefulness of the departmental councillor, former general councillor, and that of the regional councillor. The Balladur report advocated a form of partnership organisation, at three levels: the commune and intercommunality, the department and the region, the State and Europe, with the idea that a good territorial organisation consists of asking everyone to assume their competence and to assume it effectively. That is why it was decided to create the Territorial Adviser in the name of efficiency and readability; to remove duplicates, too, and to reduce the number of elected officials, which was a good initiative. But, more than that, it is a matter of giving meaning to the law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and carrying out various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, defended by Jacqueline Gourault at a time when, in all the regions of France, we are talking about the mobility aspect of the State-region plan contract. When we know exactly how communities work, we know that there is a copy of the president of the department on one side, of the president of the second department on the other... In the immense regions – I look at Christophe Jerretie, who sees what I am referring to – when we go from the Corrèze to Biarritz, you imagine that, of course, the notions of differentiation, deconcentration and decentralization resonate differently. During this quinquennium, we did not want, once again, to shred the territories. They needed appeasement, they needed to take a little step backwards from this law OUR which so badly mistreated them. They also needed financial support. The choice was made to forget the 13.5 billion euros of decreases in allocations to communities from 2012 to 2017. But I didn't forget; the mayors have not forgotten; the departments have not forgotten; the regions have not forgotten. The territorial councillor is therefore a good idea, because it is the one of efficiency; But efficiency is the question that must be asked on a daily basis, since the State cannot do everything. I am deeply committed to decentralization and deeply committed to the accountability of local elected officials. We put in place departmental plans, regional plans, plan contracts, x diagrams... It's the hick, by the way, and we'd better simplify all these schemes a little bit. During the review of the 3DS Act, my colleagues and I explained that streamlining would be necessary at the agency level, so that efficiency would be at the rendezvous. It is not a question of favouring the department or the region, but of favouring the region-department couple, each in its competence. You may remember that at one time, we were told that cross-financing had to be avoided. But those who have a daily experience of these subjects know that we are happy to have them! On this point, the doctrine has evolved. With territorial councillors, it would be very simple: in the region Centre-Val-de-Loire, the one who is elected from Eure-et-Loir would not tell different things depending on whether he is in Chartres or in Orléans. We would then have a single vision, at the same time, for the department and for the region – because a region is above all a vision. We can do this, because there is no strong region without strong departments and no strong departments without a region at the rendezvous. The tragedy of the EHPADs reminds us of the need for local communities. How do you want to control what happens 450 kilometres from a regional capital? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] We, Jean-Noël Barrot and I, are very attached to the enforcement of the law at the last kilometer. That will be one of the issues over the next five years, and I hope that Parliament, which has seen its ability to put forward its bills and amend the bills, will be in control of government activity, because that is what we must defend, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Territorial Councillor is an opportunity for France; It is not today that we are going to put it in place, but we had to talk about it. It's funny he's been forgotten. I regret that the Republicans are not here, because I had taken back their most beautiful leaves, drawing heavily on what Brice Hortefeux had said, with a great deal of common sense: "This is a major innovation. The Government proposes a simple, pragmatic and ambitious reform through the establishment of a new local elected representative, the territorial councillor [...]. With the Territorial Councillor, the region will find a place of proximity for our fellow citizens. The department, on the other hand, will be able to find a way to broaden its horizon. » But I did not stop at Brice Hortefeux: Dominique Perben, of whom everyone remembers, referred to "an organisation that will ensure a good distribution of competences over time, with in particular the creation of the territorial councillor. [...] The choice has been made, and I fully assume him as rapporteur, not to remove any of these two steps [...]" – in which we find ourselves. Christian Jacob, a prominent figure since he was, at the time chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development, quoted in his speech – because unfortunately we did not yet have the organisation we know today – as a "first step towards rapprochement", with efficiency at the meeting. Finally, Bruno Bourg-Broc, president of the small towns of 20,000 to 100,000 inhabitants, was very favorable to the territorial councillor. So this is a subject on which we should all find ourselves. It is not a question of opposing one another once again. The French are so far away from all this! Yellow vests remind us that we have only one requirement, efficiency; the major abstention in the regional and departmental elections last year also reminded us. These echelons are the levers of territorial reconquest. The mobility guidance law (LOM) that we voted for meets their expectations by allowing departments and regions to organise daily mobility, because it is not Paris, Orleans, Tours or Lyon that we can take care of everything on a daily basis. No! Let us trust, once again, the local actors. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on many benches of the LaREM group]] I hope that the Government will support our initiative at the next quinquennium and allow us to go further, because we must. I repeat, the 3DS law was a step forward, certainly insufficient, but it was a step forward. The policy of small steps will, in the long run, make a major step forward, that of trust and efficiency for all territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u61	Let's be mitterrandists for the proportional and sarkozysts for the territorial councillor!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u62	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u63	For more than ten years, the territorial councillor has appeared and disappeared as a sea serpent in the political debate. He first appeared in the 2009 report submitted by Édouard Balladur at the request of President Sarkozy. At the time, the former Prime Minister advocated a simplification of the territorial organization, the creation of which was a key measure. The law of 16 December 2010 on the reform of local authorities provided for single councillors sitting on both the departmental and regional councils, elected at cantonal level by a two-round single-member majority vote starting in 2014. The establishment of a single elected representative was intended to improve coordination between departments and regions and to simplify citizens' apprehension of local elected officials and their election procedures. Everyone remembers this: this reform has made a great deal of noise in its time. The local elected representatives, that is to say the least, did not support it, and the law was finally repealed in 2012 before it could enter into force. The motion for a resolution therefore exhumes the territorial councillor on the basis of the disinterest shown by the citizens in the departmental and regional elections of 2021, for which the participation has indeed collapsed by more than 30% compared to 2015. The territorial councillor would be the solution to encourage the return of electors to the polling station. Without wishing to call into question some of the very relevant elements of this proposal, and without contesting the need to debate it, let me think that citizen disengagement will not only be resolved by such a reform. The evil is far deeper than a mere lack of knowledge of the voting methods. The authors highlight the unreadable nature of two concurrent elections for our fellow citizens on different constituencies and operational modalities; It is a reality, and we share that fact. The logical and obvious conclusion of this finding would be the return to the territorial adviser's project, and it is to this reflection that the resolution invites the Government. As a first step, you will allow me to note that the disaffection between our compatriots and the territorial elected representatives has only increased for ten years for many reasons, and not only because of the complexity of the electoral rules. We could retain a division of competences, which is still poorly integrated by our fellow citizens; in general terms, the breach of confidence between the French and their representatives; lack of knowledge of the tasks assigned to these communities; Finally, I believe, the holding of elections on the same day, which does not make it possible to communicate clearly about a single community and creates confusion. However, let us beware of the need for a reform of simplification and harmonisation. Is the Territorial Adviser the solution? A reform of this nature presents, indisputably, a number of advantages: the single, two-round majority vote in a territorially identifiable constituency, which promotes the recognition of the elected candidate, is an advantage; a better theoretical coordination of the two levels of communities in the same territory for shared competences is also probably an advantage; The stronger anchoring of regional elected officials, who often struggle to exist on their territory, would also be an undeniable advantage. Nor can we ignore the shortcomings that such a reform would entail: first, the creation of a kind of territorial super-elect, which would exercise two major mandates over a sometimes extremely large constituency; Secondly, the significant risk of a decline in parity, which no one can wish for here, since parity is now in force in both assemblies; thirdly, the need for a delicate redistribution of the cantons to ensure a balanced distribution between the different departments within the regional assembly; Finally, another disadvantage that I cannot ignore, the reform will be seen as a kind of erasure of the departments, therefore of a local identity sometimes very strong, erasure which will be considered as the signal of a pure and simple suppression of the departments. If the motion for a resolution opens a completely legitimate debate by inviting the Government to think about the harmonization of the voting methods to which we could adhere, it turns out that it sets the outcome from the outset by inviting the Government to set up the Territorial Adviser. In view of the complexity of the question and its challenges, the Socialist and Related Group considers it important to conduct a global reflection. To close the debate and to reduce it to a single solution seems to us to be a very likely method of contestation and rejection. That is why, not without reiterating the need for reform, we will abstain from the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u64	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u65	I would like to reiterate my thanks to the MODEM Group for proposing, through this text, to recreate the Territorial Councillor, and I am pleased that he gives us an opportunity to discuss this. The reform, which was cancelled in 2012, was based on the fact that there was a massive abstention, which was even more pronounced in the intermediate territorial elections, namely the departmental and regional elections, and on the principle that the lack of representativeness is not always linked to the method of voting, since the regional elections are held proportionally with a majority correction while the departmental elections take place in the two-round majority, proof that the problem lies rather in the interpretation of the institutions than in their reality. These institutions are also accused of a lack of efficiency – at least that is how it is felt; We must recognize that our fellow citizens have had a great deal of difficulty reading local action and identifying local actors, no longer knowing who has been doing what for a long time. I do not believe that this should be seen as a sign of disinterest on their part in public action, for which, on the contrary, our fellow citizens have a strong demand, in addition to their willingness to contribute more. We spoke earlier about representation in the National Assembly. We come down here at the regional and departmental levels. I want to say a word about it, using a very simple vocabulary: I believe that our fellow citizens are sometimes – we are afraid to say so – completely disarmed in front of the institutional tangle that is ours at the local level. To say it with more brutal words, in many cases they no longer understand anything: they have a very vague perception of action at the communal level; the inter-municipal level is unknown; the departmental and regional levels form an opaque nebula that completely escapes everyone's understanding. In this context, the territorial adviser envisaged by the 2010 reform, which I had analysed at the time as an observer outside politics, seemed to me to have the merit of clarifying. It provided that the representative of the department in the department would be called upon to represent him also in the region; If this measure had been accompanied by a ban on the cumulation of mandates requiring the person with a mandate to focus on it, it would have seemed to me quite consistent and quite clear. The reform provided an element of clarification by focusing the issues on a single election and clarifying the election itself; It also made it possible to simplify local structures by superimposing both levels without one of them disappearing; Finally, it provided a clarification on the interlocking of the two structures which should allow – on this point, I agree with Mr Vigier – their better effectiveness. Personally, I regret that this reform introduced in 2010 was abolished in 2012. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] The demand, the need for simplification and clarification of local structures is recurring – this was already the position in 2009 of the committee for the reform of local authorities, known as the Balladur Committee, and, most recently, of the fact-finding mission aimed at identifying the powers of abstention and measures to strengthen electoral participation, reported by Stéphane Travert. The creation of the Territorial Councillor would, from my point of view, be in the right direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u66	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u67	In 2010, the debates on the establishment of a territorial councillor had inflamed our hemicycle and that of the Senate. Elected representatives of all sides then wondered about the place of local and regional authorities and their representatives in our political system. While the previous Socialist majority has cut the debate by simply abolishing this measure before it is implemented, I welcome the decision of the MODEM Group to give us the opportunity to relaunch it. This is important because the situation has changed a lot since 2010. The regions, first of all, are no longer the same: they are much larger. Their redistribution radically changes the regional political landscape. For example, in the Grand-Est region, where I have the honour of being elected, it is now a matter of coordinating work with ten departments whose realities and expectations are very different. If the creation of the territorial councillor would allow elected representatives to better reconcile strategies for action at the regional and departmental levels, let us avoid creating a regional chamber made up of countless elected officials! Another example is New Aquitaine, with 258 cantons. It would be ludicrous to create an assembly of more than 500 regional councillors. On the other hand, the scale of the canton allows for proximity to the land which is not to be diverted on the grounds of rationalisation of the competences. Many departmental councillors are elected from the field, often unenclosed, as opposed to regional elected officials. This specificity also explains the commitment of the French to their department and to those elected there, hence the interest of protecting them. In addition, the rules now applicable on the non-cumulation of mandates are obviating the opportunities offered to elected officials – especially Members – to act as close as possible to the ground. Let us avoid a reform that would cause them to lose even further in their vicinity – as you know, our group wants this debate to be reopened. In the light of these profound developments, we cannot content ourselves with a simple reform creating a territorial adviser. The question of effective, effective decentralization, with a clear division of powers, should be addressed. As you know, this is a wish dear to the IDU and independent group. If you want to simplify, the first step would be to give local authorities much more real and effective power in certain areas. The exercise of competence between departments and regions in economics and transport – as is already the case in some communities – should be pooled, as in health, an area in which the regional health agencies (RHAs) already allow the regionalization that we wish to see. This would help our fellow citizens to identify the role of the department and the region in their daily lives. The tragedy of the French territorial structure is that, for decades, successive majorities have each wanted to apply their vision of governance, organizing disorganization. To listen to them, the various candidates in this year's presidential election are all committed to liberating decentralization. This was already the case in previous elections, but once elected, no candidate ever took the trouble of giving up some of his power to executives much closer to the realities of the field. I must tell you, therefore, that the creation of the Territorial Adviser should not be used as an excuse and should hide a lack of courage in terms of decentralization. Do not believe that such a measure alone would reconcile our fellow citizens with the departmental and regional elections. There is a need for major reform in favour of greater community autonomy. It is in such a framework that we would be prepared to imagine the creation of the status of territorial councillor, elected in a canton that allows him to remain close to the ground. This would be all the more important as elected officials wearing this double hat could help streamline the areas of intervention of communities that are still too often duplication of work on the same subject, due to the lack of a clear division of competences. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Our group will therefore support this motion for a resolution, which should lead to a more comprehensive reflection on the organisation of our State.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u68	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u69	Ladies and gentlemen of the Dem Group, the texts you are presenting attempt to respond to a finding, which we all share, that of increasing distrust of elected officials and political power and of increasing abstention in all elections. But, as I said earlier, these motions for resolutions come after five years of office, when they should have been adopted earlier during the quinquennium. Thus, no effects can be followed, given their late nature. The present motion for a resolution "invites the Government to carry out the necessary reflections for the harmonization of voting methods in departmental and regional elections and to draw the result by the creation of the territorial councillor who would sit in both assemblies". Such a formulation, which is particularly imprecise, raises many questions. This was already the case in the past; Such a proposal had to be abandoned in the face of a wave of mobilizations. We therefore question the capacity to implement such reforms without prior consultation with all relevant stakeholders. With the same causes having the same effects, it is very likely that, as in the past, you will have to step back on this proposal as on others aimed at strengthening the democratic system. What do you mean by "harmonization of voting methods"? Is it a matter of generalizing in regional elections – or even in legislative elections: at least you do not close the debate – cantonal voting, which currently applies to departmental elections, or of generalizing proportional list voting as it exists in regional elections? Or do you intend to create a new voting mode for the occasion? If, through the creation of the Territorial Councillor, you wish, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, to reactivate the reform undertaken in 2010 under the mandate of Nicolas Sarkozy and abolished just two years later, we will find it difficult to follow you. Indeed, if an elected councillor at cantonal level sat in the region, it could completely distort the role of regional councillors – even if I am not closed to this type of reflection, far from it. Instead of such an unconvincing reform of voting methods, regional and departmental councils should be merged in the territories that so request. Indeed, the specificities of each territory must be taken into account and the choices made by each of them must be respected. It is also an opportunity to examine the place of departments, particularly in rural areas, and the interactions between departments, communes and inter-municipal structures. What can be done with all of these levels? It is necessary to think about a shock of decentralization, on the understanding that the real problem is that of the resources of departments and regions, which are obviously insufficient. Our country must also make a massive transfer of skills. It is one of the most centralized in the world; That's why things work badly! A shock of decentralization would therefore be a shock of rebalancing our institutions and a shock of listening – this is the fabric of all your motions for resolutions, which unfortunately arrive very late. Bill 3DS could have been a major act of decentralization – still a promise that has not been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u70	There's nothing like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u71	Citizens feel dispossessed of their power, because the impact of voting on daily life has become invisible. It is therefore imperative to put decision-making closer to our citizens in their daily lives and to encourage participatory democracy, which is important at the local level. This has not been done in recent years; We'll get back to it later. On the other hand, your proposal to create a territorial adviser throughout the territory without taking into account the demands of the field, without prior consultation or negotiation with the local authorities, lacks ambition, from our point of view. This measure would have little impact on the lives of our citizens. She wouldn't solve...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u73	... in no way the challenges facing our democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u74	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u75	The authors of this motion for a resolution, which aims to create a territorial councillor, point to an "increasingly massive abstention", which would be "a strong signal of the lack of interest of citizens in the political decision-making process that they consider severely, either that it appears unrepresentative or that it seems ineffective". Throughout their term of office, the Members of the La France group have repeatedly warned about the excessive abstention, particularly in the last regional and departmental elections. This is all the more crucial since the presidential elections are now held in less than three months and the deadline for voter registration is 4 March. Every day, France does its utmost to fight against this abstention, against non-registration and ill-registration on the electoral lists. The fight against abstention is at the heart of the programme "The Common Future", which recalls that citizens must not be kept out of public life in democracy. Citizen intervention is at the heart of our programme and our political project for France. We therefore propose a series of measures, such as the recognition of the blank vote, the establishment of a threshold of votes that would have to be reached for the election to be validated and the right to vote from the age of 16. Finally, in order to strengthen citizen participation in public life, we propose the establishment of a citizens' initiative referendum. Let us return to this motion for a resolution. First of all, we regret the contempt you show for the French and French when you talk about territorial competence. I quote the explanatory memorandum: "The record of abstention in the last regional and departmental elections proves this: as soon as the competences merge or overlap, they cancel in the spirit of the French who do not hear the Byzantine subtleties of a regional vote by departmental lists, and of a departmental vote by cantonal binomes". Finally, this contemptuous wording is in the image of your quinquennium: the system in question is probably too "subtle" for the French to understand. As for the text of the motion for a resolution itself, it aims to "invite the Government to carry out the necessary reflections for the harmonization of voting methods in departmental and regional elections and to draw the result by the creation of the territorial councillor who would sit in both assemblies". Let me return to the creation of the Territorial Councillor. We are surprised that the presential majority is taking up a proposal supported under Mr Sarkozy's quinquennium. Indeed, this measure was envisaged in the 2010 reform but abandoned by the new majority, elected in 2012. You thus state that "the concerns raised then, as legitimate as they may be, must not prevent us from moving forward today." Let me remind you that the report of the Senate's Law Commission highlighted the existence of numerous objections to the creation of the territorial councillor: "Indeed, it will not only make it possible to achieve savings, nor to ensure better coordination between the actions of the department and those of the region, but above all it will institutionalize the cumulation of mandates; it will lead to the establishment of plethora of regional assemblies, and therefore difficult to govern; it will de facto establish a trusteeship of one [territorial] community over another; In view of the two-round single-member majority voting system chosen by the legislator in 2010, its creation will be unfavourable both to the equal access of men and women to elected office and to political pluralism. » The many limitations I have just mentioned lead us to question the purpose of the authors of this motion for a resolution. Our group will therefore vote against the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u76	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u77	After discussing the ideal method of voting that should be introduced for the general elections, our colleagues in the MODEM Group invite us to exchange views on the creation of the status of territorial councillor, thus, ultimately, on the territorial organisation of the Republic. This debate is just as interesting, as it reveals the deep political disagreements between us. Of course, we share the fact that French and French people are increasingly disenchanted with their political representatives and institutions. Their distrust is expressed by an increasing abstention, which now affects all elections, including municipal, regional and departmental elections, so far rather preserved. This mistrust has increased throughout the quinquennium, crystallizing especially at the time of the yellow vest movement. It is also expressed in certain forms of radicalization and very harsh protest, which sometimes go as far as verbal, if not physical, intimidation. Nothing can justify threats and violence: the communist group, moreover, systematically condemns them. But our duty is also to analyse the sources of such behaviour and to hear that they are the result of the inability of our democratic institutions to produce common. It is here that our roads separate, for, curiously, you seek to heal this painful cut by ever further moving away the shores that separate the citizens from those who represent them. Your solution is to go even further in metropolization, which bears a serious responsibility in this situation. Of course, your majority is not solely responsible because, for some 30 years, many texts have considerably aggravated the competition of the territories. These reforms have led to considerable institutional upheavals, accentuating territorial inequalities, while calling into question the constitutional principles of unity and indivisibility of the Republic. In the face of such earthquakes, it would have been wiser to engage in a genuine national debate, but the various governments stubbornly refused any new thinking, preferring to rush the examination of reforms elaborated without consultation and without long-term vision. The NOTRE Act and, to some extent, Bill 3DS are exemplary of the abuses that are cruelly hurting our democracy. By pretending to fight the famous millefeuille, these increasingly "tech" reforms have made our local French system, already binding and inoperative, even more incomprehensible to citizens. It's now a headless duck that's on its way: no brain controls anything anymore. That is why we must urgently return to the model left as a legacy by the revolutionaries of 1789. We must reshape our democracy on the three fundamental pillars of the Republic: the State, the Department and the Commune. To that end, we must put an end to the presidential monarchy, which stifles the French and French, who feel that they are silenced, at most consulted during major haughty debates or during the presidential elections, without they ever being able to intervene otherwise in national political life. It is also necessary to make departments the workers' ankles of the Social Republic, which means to put an end to these regions and these inhuman, giant, incoherent intercommunalities from a geographical, historical and sociological point of view. Finally, it is necessary to strengthen the commune as the basic stage of popular sovereignty, with the means that this implies for the municipalities, which make social cohesion possible on a daily basis, thanks to the public services and the dedication of the servants of the general interest. It is in this way that citizens will regain confidence in their institutions and elected officials. We shall therefore vote against this motion for a resolution, considering that the creation of the status of territorial councillor is only another technocratic challenge, which could only worsen the democratic crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u78	Mr Didier Paris has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u79	The problem of the intertwining of competences between regions and departments is not new, far from it, everyone knows. It has probably been further accentuated by the establishment of large regions, or even by the law OUR. Moreover, it is not certain that the 3DS law, which we will vote next week on the basis of the text of the Joint Joint Committee (JC), resolves this specific difficulty, although it will significantly improve the conditions for the exercise of many public policies. Our fellow citizens – how to blame them – have the greatest difficulty in identifying the centre of territorial decisions and too often feel that they have no effect on their daily lives. In addition, they generally value politics more than politics, and give it a general sense of distrust. These are some of the reasons for the very serious level of abstention we experienced last spring. Only one third of voters moved, 13% only among young people between the ages of 18 and 24, which shows enough the state of crisis in which this democratic process finds itself. Regrettably, the way in which regional and departmental elections are held has only exacerbated the problem, which has been exacerbated by the incredible shortcomings in the distribution of electoral materials. The departmental elections are conducted by the majority binominal elections; it is proportional with majority premium and departmental sections for the regionals. As a campaign manager of the list of the presidential majority in Burgundy-Franche-Comté, I was able to see that our fellow citizens are unaware of the precise electoral method, just as I myself was strictly unable, on the evening of the election, to guess how many councillors we would have in each department, before the prefect would have wished to finish all his calculations. So, what to do? We are obviously not, in any case, on the eve of a great evening of territorial reform; However, the idea of creating a territorial councillor must be included in our work, even if it will obviously not solve all the problems. The theme is not new, everyone knows it. The proposal has been put forward several times. Recommended by the Balladur Committee, voted under the government of François Fillon, the reform was repealed, without putting it into practice, under the presidency of François Hollande. So it was never materialized, never praised, but never really abandoned either. In his time, many critics were opposed to him, and no doubt they are still relevant: the risk of establishing regional control over the departments and of cantoning the regions; the technical complexity of its application; the risk of making institutional practice rather confusing, especially since it would cause a problem of identity of local and regional authorities. However, the MODEM Group's motion for a resolution has the merit of resting the central and lenient questions of the interest of our fellow citizens in public action and of their understanding of the workings that govern it. The answers necessarily require a better embodiment of the territorial politicians and therefore, why not, a rapprochement of the departmental and regional advisers. Stéphane Travert's excellent report, tabled in conclusion of the fact-finding mission to identify the areas of abstention and measures to strengthen electoral participation, chaired by Xavier Breton, does not dissipate, but invites us to reflect at least on the rapprochement of the methods of election of regional and departmental councillors, while recognizing that this should pave the way for a new reflection on the possibility of bringing the "figures" of the departmental councillor and the regional councillor closer to the creation of the territorial councillor. We can recognise that the latter can be a factor in the fight against abstention, improve the readability of public action and the coordination of political decision-making, and probably better embody what a local decision-maker should be. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Although further work for more comprehensive reflection is undoubtedly necessary, the motion for a resolution "invites the Government to carry out the necessary reflections for the harmonization of voting methods in departmental and regional elections and to draw the result by the creation of the territorial councillor who would sit in both assemblies". In these circumstances, there is no serious reason not to follow it; The LaREM Group, which I have the honour to represent before you, will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u80	As Mrs Lorho has not arrived, I shall close the general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u81	She's still out of sleep!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u82	Members of the LR Group too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u83	I invite you to show a little humility about the presence in the National Assembly, because we could all be the subject of such disparaging remarks. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request from the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u84	[["Ah! » and applause on the benches of the Dem group]] First of all, I wish Mr. Philippe Vigier a happy birthday! This motion for a resolution calls on the Government to reflect on the harmonization of regional and departmental voting methods, thus creating the territorial councillor. You also invite the Government to reflect on the articulation of the departmental and regional levels. The aim is to review the method of election of departmental and regional councillors, following the model of the territorial councillor, according to a reform adopted by Parliament in 2010, but never implemented. The Government would not be against that text, since it seemed entirely legitimate and useful to continue to reflect on how to make the intermediate territorial level more readable and closer to citizens and their concerns, to increase the accountability of elected officials and to further clarify the division of powers among local levels. This motion for a resolution allows us to share the common and compelling objective of improving electoral participation and the interest of our citizens in all elections. I have had the opportunity to make a broad statement on this subject in the context of the work on ways to combat abstention, led by Xavier Breton and Stéphane Travert, which I thank and welcome. The fight against electoral abstention is essential to the vitality of democratic institutions. The ministry for which I am responsible is working. We have developed tools, some of which have been presented; others will soon be, we still have to work together. Almost two thirds of the French abstained from voting in the last departmental and regional elections in 2021. The health situation has certainly contributed to this historical decline, of 16 per cent for the departmental elections and 24 per cent for the regional elections, but we cannot attribute everything to the covid. The text therefore raises two essential questions. The first concerns the legibility of the territorial organisation, particularly with regard to the articulation between the levels. It implies a degree of stability, including the voting patterns of regional and departmental elections, as well as territorial boundaries, following successive reforms between 2012 and 2017. The Government has chosen not to change the institutional and electoral framework of departments and regions again, and to focus on improving their effectiveness. The 3DS law is proof of this. Stability is also essential for our citizens to understand the issues that depend on the departments and regions in the economic, social and environmental fields. With regard to the search for a coherent method of voting, which would facilitate the articulation between the various levels, the return to the territorial councillor as envisaged in 2010 raises many questions. If it can no doubt be the starting point for a common reflection, it will hardly be a point of conclusion, at least in its version adopted in 2010. In principle, the territorial councillor had to replace the departmental councillor and the regional councillor, by serving on both the departmental council and the regional council. Territorial councillors were to be appointed by a two-round single-member majority vote, following the model of the cantonal elections in force before the 2013 reform. Since 2010, the legal and institutional framework has evolved dramatically. The cantonal map has been revised and the departmental councillors are elected in each canton, by a majority vote by equal binome. At the same time, the major regions were created. The establishment of the territorial councillor would therefore imply a new, sensitive cantonal division, just seven years after the redistributions of 2014 and 2015. Such a method of election would not necessarily guarantee the constitution of such certain majorities as in the context of the regional election currently in force. The question of the stability of majorities would also be likely to arise in the event of a list vote being applied to the current regional model. This method of voting would, of course, make it possible to obtain clear majorities at the regional level, thanks to the majority premium attributed to the top-ranked list. However, the division of seats by departmental sections might not give the majority in a departmental council to the list that had come to the top in that department, which would be difficult for voters to understand. Those are the questions that the Government is asking itself. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As I mentioned in the introduction, the Government considers it necessary to continue to reflect on these issues, which are essential for the vitality of our local democracy and for the territorial organization of our country. However, all possible scenarios must be put on the table, beyond the model of the territorial councillor, to which this motion for a resolution refers. I would like to thank the MODEM Group once again for putting this type of issue on the agenda, which is fundamental to the vitality of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u85	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u86	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 92 Number of votes cast 90 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 88 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u87	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u88	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u89	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the development of citizen participation as a pillar of our democratic model (No 4873).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u90	In the general debate, Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u91	Mr President, the Deputy Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution that I am defending on behalf of the MODEM Group is first of all a message to our fellow citizens by which we, as Members of the nation, reaffirm that their participation is essential to our democratic system. In the exercise of our mandates, during public meetings in the face-to-face or virtual, hearings or meetings on the ground that we organize, each and every one of us, regardless of the bench on which we sit, defends the idea that representative democracy is enriched by participatory democracy. I'll remind you that it's neither a blush, nor an idea in the air of time. Article 6 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789 clearly states that all citizens have the right to participate personally in the drafting of the law. For elected officials, this citizen participation is sometimes a sting, but always a compass. Two tendencies, apparently antagonistic, are emerging. First trend: committed citizens want to be directly involved in public decisions affecting them. There is no longer the citizens on the one hand, and the elected ones on the other hand, who decide on their own in a vertical way. They promote a short circuit logic between citizens and public decision-making. In a book published in 2016, I named this first trend of uberization of politics. In any case, I have seen a certain disintermediation and the evolution of the role of the elected candidate in the face of the desire to establish this short circuit. The second trend, almost antagonistic, is, beyond the mere abstention, the democratic stallion of some of our fellow citizens who consider that democracy no longer concerns them. As elected officials, our challenge is to respond to these two trends. It raises several questions, including methodology, and encourages us to consider innovation issues. On methodological issues, in another book, I explained that we need to adapt the level of consultation and consultation to the situations we face. I identified four levels of consultation. First, we must ensure information and transparency for our citizens. Secondly, we must formally consult them through voting and referendums. The third level we now know well is classic: participation. We know where we are going, we all associate, listening to it and adapting the path we take or the public policy we define. Finally, the fourth level is the most demanding, the one that takes the most time: the co-construction that we have each been able to experiment. In fact, it is quite anxiogenic because we leave a point A that we know, while we do not know where the point B of arrival is. This is precisely the principle of co-construction. For having experienced it like many of you, I am sure, I have found that it is the most powerful way to develop the best public policies because it feeds on each other's eyes. Of course, there are also key factors for success, such as the sincerity of the approach and its accessibility in the broad sense, in order to prevent only a committed elite from resorting to citizen participation. Minister-in-Office, I would like to welcome your action with regard to this method. You have made a great deal of progress in this area within the Government, by defending the concept of the duty to follow-up, that is, the obligation of the organizer of a citizen consultation to report well, at the end of the exercise, on how it has taken into account the contributions made. This is obviously a major issue because a citizen who does not see how his or her contribution is taken into account would eventually get tired. Unfortunately, we see this when the organization of these consultations does not follow a sufficiently rigorous approach. [[Murmurs on several benches]] That is to say how pleased I am today to have the Prime Minister..., the Prime Minister of Citizen Participation, on the bench.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u92	We were scared!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u93	[[Smiles and applause on the benches of the Dem group]] This is MODEM's parliamentary day: after all, we have the right to have a sense of anticipation. Deputy Minister, you are a perfect embodiment of this very close relationship between participatory democracy and representative democracy. We are also facing a strong innovation challenge. Our territories are full of experiments, innovations that many local elected officials apply. During the mandate, we experienced two major democratic innovations, which we probably did not learn enough from: the great national debate and the Citizen's Climate Convention. In the great debate, a wealth of information, ideas and opinions has been brought about which we must now exploit even more. From the opening of the Citizen's Convention for the Climate, it should have been better explained that the idea was not to transpose directly into the law all the proposals made, but to respond to them one by one, and then to measure the performance of the process by the number of ideas retained in the law. [[Smiles and applause on the benches of the Dem group]] That said, ladies and gentlemen, I know a lot of Members who would be very happy if only half of the many ideas they present were retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u94	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u95	I am not just speaking to our opposition colleagues, but to each of the Members. So we cannot blame those who promote these democratic innovations for taking risks and experimenting. In any case, they represent major moments of democracy that we must welcome, while being humbled to say that we must continue our efforts in order to integrate them fully into the democratic landscape. [[Élodie Jacquier-Laforge and Albane Gaillot applaud]] Finally, the text proposes lines of development and concrete actions. The first concerns ways of advancing the civic spirit, especially among our young people, but not only. Our youth is much more committed than some sponcifs would have us believe. I take two examples. We are the country where civic service is the most successful in Europe. Indeed, young people move mountains, giving one year of their lives for others, for sustainable development, for people who are dependent or disabled; In short, they set an example. Youth have also shown us the example during the climate marches, which represent a very strong message of commitment, especially to the entire political class. Thus, our youth is engaged. Its involvement takes on new forms; It's up to us to know how to answer it and give it its rightful place. Because democracy works throughout the life of a citizen, we propose very concretely to launch open universities of democracy. Thus, each French university would propose a curriculum open to all, allowing every citizen, at the moment he or she wishes, to be able to question, reflect, progress in his or her understanding of the democratic model and the fundamentals of the rule of law. I want to mention a second area of development: the immense challenge of digital democracy. The Civic Tech offers new opportunities. We have the opportunity to live in a digital democracy with an open face, France Connect attests to this. Many ethical and equity issues arise. Is the principle of fairness between candidates still respected when an elected official develops a digital platform for exchanges with his fellow citizens? In short, we propose the launch of the foundations of digital democracy, which alone will set the stage for it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the National Assembly should be the heart of this reflection on citizen participation. Our successors will have to continue our action on petitions, now much more accessible since the reform of our regulation, but also on the legibility of our laws to make them more accessible, and make innovative proposals. One can imagine, for example, creating citizen platforms so that citizens can table amendments to a bill. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr Christophe Euzet and Mrs Albane Gaillot also applaud]] These are the foundations of a new democratic civil and civic pact, which reflects our desire to put the citizen back at the heart of our democratic edifice. This political philosophy starts from the premise that every citizen has his or her value to bring to our democratic model. The MODEM Group defends and proposes today a deeply humanist and inclusive political approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u96	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u97	The motion for a resolution is based on Article 6 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen, which sets out the principle of the participation of citizens in the drafting of the law – that has been said. It proposes two axes: to structure the governance of citizen participation and to systematize this participation in the formulation and evaluation of public policies. It starts from the observation – made several times this morning – that our representative model is in crisis. We see that our fellow citizens want to be involved and active in their social life, as evidenced by the march for climate change, the enthusiasm for civic service, collective citizens and the success of participatory budgets. Paradoxically, citizens are voting less and less. Sylvain Waserman has just said this brilliantly: a feeling of distrust tends to develop in our country against the representative system, which is put on the margins and whose actors are sometimes even the subject of confrontations. Beyond the words and style that we sometimes use in the gallery, citizen participation as a complement to representative democracy has now become a crucial issue. We must now encourage the participatory involvement of our fellow citizens, as this will be the way to get them back to the polls. In this sense, participation will inevitably be an enrichment of representation. In this marriage, one has no vocation to substitute for the other; They are intended to complement each other. Mechanisms already mentioned exist in our system: next Wednesday, in the Law Committee, we will examine citizen petitions, an interdepartmental centre for citizen participation has been established, the major national debate and the Citizen Climate Convention have been very successful. The question now arises of the sustainability of the actions taken, the methods employed and the sustainable innovation of the mechanisms that we could introduce. Mr Waserman, we agree with you on the five real issues set out in the motion for a resolution of which you are the author, on which we must be asked to reflect. First of all, participation should be extended to less committed audiences in this societal investment. Secondly, time should be set aside for those who may wish to become involved. Then, the concrete follow-up of a consultation will have to be considered, creating a duty in a row, and it will still be necessary to evaluate the consultation and capitalize on the experience. Finally, it is a matter of going far beyond the mere act of consultation. I have also taken note of your four proposals, on which we fully agree with you once again. First, we share the idea of promoting participation from an early age and continuing to do so later in life. Everything starts from school, we know it very well. It is at school that the idea that participatory democracy is complementary to representative democracy must be born and flourished. Then come the idea of organizing, modeling this participation so that it is no longer empirical, but structured and increasingly institutionalized; the development of digital democracy – I am not a strong advocate of it, but I agree with it in that it is intended to counter the pseudo-democracy of social networks; to structure the governance of citizen participation by integrating citizens into future laws from the outset of the impact assessment. I repeat, we can only support these proposals. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat also applauds]] Without any demagogy, the group Action Together could even try to go further, as recommended in its work, which I recently read, Professor Xavier Magnon, who teaches at the University of Aix-Marseille where he runs the Louis Favoreu Institute (ILF). Why not explore the possibilities to mark the modalities of a popular legislative initiative, to better consult the public when elected officials have to take measures that were not included in their programme? In short, your proposals are the launching pad for collective reflection on our system of government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u98	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u99	Like the other texts discussed today at the initiative of the MODEM Group, the Group is trying to solve a problem that we all see: the democratic crisis which is worsening as more and more of our citizens move away from the electoral process and from consultations. Already in 2017, Brice Teinturier called them the PRAFs: "no more to do, no more to fuck." They gave up until the protest vote, which, while allowing the system to express its discontent, was part of democratic vitality. The deep crisis we are experiencing is thus of a completely different nature than those we had experienced before. In an attempt to remedy this situation, we must logically focus on the citizen: this text aims to place him at the heart of our reflection, of our action. Only the citizen himself is multiple. In addition to the voter, there is the taxpayer who is committed to making the best use of his money, the increasingly demanding user in terms of the efficiency of public services, and Jean-Michel Twittos who, anonymity helping, behaves more as a prosecutor on social networks than by participating in democratic life. However, these networks have become so important that their activities necessarily affect public debate and that we cannot ignore them when we consider measures that will enable citizens to find their way back to the polls. The motion for a resolution concerns several areas, be they training or various methods and practices. Whether or not we are exercising a local mandate, we are a number to consult regularly with our fellow citizens about what concerns them or what the House is submitting for our consideration. I salute my colleague Guy Bricout, who created an electoral district council of sixty people to work with him on current issues, including legislation. As far as the digital aspect is concerned, I will imitate Mr Euzet's caution: we tend only too much to regard digital as the remedy for remoteness. Sometimes it's true, but not always. In order, for example, to gain access to physically distant public services, our citizens will have to be accompanied in order to master digital tools and be able to use them on a daily basis. The same applies to citizenship: digital technology will never replace the physical presence in confrontation, debate, dialogue, or in this electoral participation that has been the heart of our democracy for 250 years. This is why the IDU and independent group opposes the idea of a mail-order vote or an electronic vote. The ritual of the ballot slipping into the ballot box makes the person who realizes it realizes that his voice, added to others, will determine the election of a man or woman, that of the mayor, a departmental or regional councillor or the President of the Republic. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and Dem groups. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] We welcome this motion for a resolution as an invitation to take certain initiatives: that is why our group will be quite in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u100	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u101	In my political commitment, I was very marked by the Grenelle de l'Environnement. It was more than ten years ago: we were aware of the environmental crisis, the need to act, and to act quickly. We had brought together representatives of environmental organisations, but also representatives of companies, farmers and hunters: so many people who were usually unaware, did not speak to each other, or even hated each other. At the end of six months, they had determined precisely the objectives and the means to achieve them. Above all, I witnessed an impressive transformation of minds: all had recognized the goodwill of each other, wanted to work together, respected each other. Even if Jean-Louis Borloo is not Harry Potter, it was magic! Unfortunately, everything then fell back like a blow: we did not continue to make the interested people work together, and the old reflexes took over. Our country is beautiful, even beautiful; The French want to commit themselves to it. He has brought a great deal to the world and, like many of you, I believe he is able to continue to do so, provided we all really work together. But its main problem is decision-making: how can we ensure that it is collective, that everyone is involved? This will only be achieved if there is a democratic shock; Otherwise, no need to try, even with a big brain to direct us. It is certainly better for the holder of power to be intelligent, but above all we need great ears to listen to each other, at whatever social level we find ourselves. It is feasible provided that the institutions are reformed, that Parliament is rebalanced, because it is not normal for so many powers to be in the hands of one person; There must be a shock of decentralization, and this debate must also cause a real shock of listening to our fellow citizens. This shock hasn't happened yet: it could have. We should all be marked with red iron by the yellow vest crisis, which has violently shaken the country. Without the army, the police, the gendarmerie, an orange revolution swept away our institutions; We would have done worse than those countries whose lack of democratic experience we denounce! What were the consequences? A big debate which, in the end, ended up with a big blabla.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u102	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u103	We've listened to a lot of people; It would have been enough to identify twenty or thirty proposals that would be brought up for work, then downhill and again under discussion. Our fellow citizens were not asking for more to have the feeling that they had been understood, that things were moving forward. I repeat, however, that this crisis has not been taken into account. At the last moment, devices such as the Citizen Climate Convention were invented. There was no lack of interest in the idea; However, the responsible citizens involved said they were frustrated because the President of the Republic had not kept his promise to submit their text "without a filter" to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u104	That's not what we said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u105	Worse, on a number of points, we have regressed: I am thinking of the collapse of participation arrangements, particularly at the local level. We must put the citizen back at the heart of the mechanisms, regularly resort to a multi-choice referendum, lower the threshold for triggering the referendum on a shared initiative to 1 million signatures – see what happened about the privatisation of Paris airports. The Libertés et Territoires Group also proposes that the texts which have collected a number of signatures by petition may be submitted to the local executive and even, for those who would obtain 200,000 signatures, for our consideration, in the context of citizen niches. Civil society representatives must be given fair status and means; There is a need to organise large structured debates leading to decisions, to simplify local bodies for consultation, to make impact assessments and consultation mandatory for Parliament. [[Guy Bricout applauds]] All of this would be easily achievable. I regret that these debates are only on our agenda at the end of the quinquennium, and I hope that the future President of the Republic will finally put these common-sense measures into practice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u106	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u107	[["Ah! » on the benches of the Dem group]] Mr Pancher is on his way to insubmission: I have noticed this twice this morning and, of course, I welcome it. I also wanted to reassure him: the next President of the Republic, Jean-Luc Mélenchon, will take these democratic questions with his arms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u108	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u109	We are considering the motion for a resolution on the development of citizen participation as a pillar of our democratic model. The explanatory statement of the text proclaims: "Two major democratic innovations will also have marked the quinquennium: the great national debate, with two million citizen contributions received in various forms, and the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, which resulted from it – an unprecedented deliberative exercise on this scale in France and around the world. This idyllic vision is lacuna, if not false. Bertrand Pancher recalled this about the big debate, which Jean-Luc Mélenchon, for his part, described as "total bide". Recall that the National Commission for Public Debate (CNDP) had been excluded, and that the questionnaires proposed by the Government were more than oriented.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u110	That's not nice of those who responded!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u111	[["Oh! » on the benches of the Dem group]] Mr Balanant, if you wish to speak, I invite you to go up to the gallery! To give just one example, the options proposed to finance social expenditure were: to reduce the retirement age, to increase working time, to review the conditions for granting certain social assistance. In other words, participants only had a choice between liberalism, liberalism, or liberalism! With the Citizen Climate Convention, you have raised expectations without meeting them, without honouring your promises. Macron...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u112	President Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u113	... had promised to take back the proposals "without filter"; In reality, he swept them away with a back of his hand. The most ambitious met with a presidential joker, the others were pushed aside, watered down, and put into practice delayed. The disappointment of the 150 members of the Convention can be measured by the note they have given to the bill – the future "climate and resilience" law of 22 August 2021 – supposed to transpose their recommendations: 3.3 out of 10. You heard me, didn't you? The majority calls it "major democratic innovations" the failures of its anti-democratic policy. You indicate that you want to simplify. After reading the explanatory memorandum, I wonder: to paraphrase you, it would seem that your vision of simplification is not so simple. It is mentioned that "simplification to better involve our fellow citizens would be a new compass to guide our simplification actions". It looks like a bit of a sophisticated Shadok language. You also point out that "Debate every reform as to whether it is a source of simplification "as seen by the citizen", and if it therefore brings our fellow citizens a clearer vision that will allow them to participate more concretely in public life, must be part of the legislator's reasoning more systematically". I am lost in the arguments of your explanatory statement because they lack simplicity! Once again, I wonder. After the ASAP law on the acceleration and simplification of public action and the 3DS bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, the only thing that remains simple is the title of the law or bill. If you want to develop citizen participation, why not have introduced the citizens' initiative referendum? However, it was one of the demands of the yellow vests, and that is also what France is proposing in its programme "L'avenir en commun". With the citizens' initiative referendum, citizens who gather sufficient signatures can revoke elected officials, propose or repeal a law and amend the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u114	It's demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u115	I would remind you that 69% of French people say they are in favour of a citizens' initiative referendum! Finally, you indicate that you want to develop our digital democracy as a place for citizen debate; Mr. Bertrand Pancher mentioned it. There is no mention in your motion for a resolution of ill-electronics and the digital divide, of which I would remind you that it is nevertheless very present in France! In a study in October 2019, INSEE indicated that illiteracy, or digital illiteracy, affects 17% of the population. Throughout the quinquennium, the deputies of La France insoumée kept reminding us of the urgent need to launch an investment plan to combat the white areas and the digital divide. It is much more urgent than deploying 5G, which has a considerable environmental impact, and it is especially more useful to allow citizens to be involved in public life. For all these reasons, our group will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u116	How amazing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u117	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u118	First of all, I sincerely thank my colleagues in the MODEM Group for putting on the agenda of their parliamentary niche a large number of texts relating to democracy and our institutions. We, the Communist Members of Parliament, regret that these matters are too often neglected by national representation. They are, however, essential to many French and French people who, most often, are exasperated by the functioning of our democratic institutions and aspire to a change of republic. Like them, we want this change. Like them, we want to restore its letters of nobility to the parliamentary regime that has been so devalued. Like them, we can no longer afford this presidential monarchy that has done so much harm to national cohesion during the health crisis, and we want to put an end to it. Like them, we want to involve citizens in decision-making, develop participatory democracy and articulate it not in opposition but in complementarity with representative democracy. We are convinced that these developments must be made simultaneously, failing which the reforms will fail on the altar of presidentialism. That is what we have seen in the last five years. At the institutional level, first, the President who promised a Copernician revolution did not change anything. Worse still, the Government and the present majority have not hesitated to use and abuse all the old recipes left behind by the founding fathers of the Fifth Republic. I am thinking of the use of article 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution during the reform of pensions; I am also thinking of the blocked vote on our group's bill to deconjugate the allowance for adults with disabilities; I am also thinking of the majority fact which has never radiated as much as during this parliamentary term, in sometimes caricatural proportions. As far as citizen participation is concerned, which is discussed in this resolution, the results are not much more satisfactory. First of all, I want to talk about the Citizen's Climate Convention, which ended in a failure. The main fault lies with the President of the Republic, who had previously committed himself to take up all the proposals "without a filter" either to transmit them to Parliament or to submit them to a referendum. The rest is well known: not only has Emmanuel Macron not accepted all the proposals, but he has constantly changed or emptied some of them of their meaning with, it is true, the assistance of the deputies of the majority. It is all the more regrettable that we have proposed, through our group chairman, the creation of a special committee in the House to study all the proposals made by the people drawn up by lot. It would have been a great opportunity to demonstrate that participatory democracy and parliamentary democracy can be harmoniously articulated. But once again, verticality triumphed, inciting the anger of the conventionaries, disgusted by having been thus instrumentalized. That is why they launched a petition to save the Citizen Climate Convention. To date, it has more than 529,000 signatories and is also an admission of the failure of this innovative process. Finally, how can we not go back to the yellow vest movement and the citizens' initiative referendum? In recent years, we have never seen such a democratic aspiration, especially from people who seem to have turned their backs on political life. On the roundabouts and in the streets, in our cities and in our countryside, in the metropolis and in the ultramarine territories, women and men spoke together, simply asking that their voices be heard and that their demands be taken into account in the development of public policies. The demand expressed with great dignity by these citizens – those "who are nothing", as the President of the Republic said – was simple: that the sovereignty of the people, that which was conquered by the French Revolution, be finally restored to them. To this legitimate demand and in reality exciting, if we take seriously the republican promise of a Government "by the people and for the people", the power responded as always by contempt, verticality and denial of a formidable democratic momentum. So you will understand that, despite some interesting proposals, our group will abstain from this text. We believe that the prospects you offer us, colleagues, will remain chimeras until you give up the presidentialism that stifles citizens' aspirations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u119	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u120	In 1947, Winston Churchill said: "Democracy is the worst system of government, with the exception of all others. Long stressed for the virtues it conveys, democracy – at least its exercise – has gradually become the reference model, the one that the United Nations establishes during the reconstruction of states. This same democratic ideal is the basis of our European institutions. Yet, some say that democracy is suffering from shortness of breath. Long magnified, revered, she is now being questioned, questioned or even abandoned, criticized or questioned. How can we move forward and reconcile representative democracy with participatory democracy? There is a paradox between an increased demand for participation and the decline in citizen participation. Abstention is increasing, regardless of the vote, as pointed out in the recent information report by our colleagues Xavier Breton and Stéphane Travert. It has gradually registered in each of our elections since 1970, reaching a level never equalled during the last election consultations in June 2021. There are new forms of demonstrations – the yellow vests in 2018, the marches for the climate, the standing night – that testify to the mismatch and stalling of citizens with the traditional models of democratic participation. Practice shows that distrust of institutions also results in opposition to any form of institutional legitimacy, which challenges the model of representative democracy on which our institutions are based. The increase in violence against law enforcement officials, journalists and elected officials is a striking example. So how can we respond to the challenge of citizen engagement, how can we strengthen and broaden citizen participation and how can we strengthen our model of democracy? Since 2017, these issues have been at the heart of elected officials' concerns. This is evidenced by the desire of the President of the Republic, during the launch of the major debate in 2019, to identify the concerns of citizens throughout the territory, or the establishment of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, at which 150 citizens were drawn by lot and of which 146 proposals were included in various pieces of legislation. This is also reflected in the reform in 2020 of the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC), a privileged expression of citizen participation, which opened the door to digital petitions for citizens from the age of 16. This is also evidenced by the opening of digital platforms by ministries, through the various reforms, on which everyone can give their opinion and make proposals. Finally, the foundations of water or the general states of justice, which are all forums for consultation, bear witness to this. It is in this context that the resolution proposed to us today is in place. It pursues an objective that we share with the MODEM group, that of developing citizen participation. The text provides for the creation of conditions for youth participation. To achieve this, education for democracy must start early and be distilled throughout the youth's journey. The school is a privileged place for education and socialisation and it is in this context that actions are carried out for young people. Interventions of deputies in classes, classes Parliament, visits of the Assembly, municipal children's councils, elections of class delegates, civic service, universal national service: all these approaches that help each young person find his place as a citizen in our democracy. In order to develop public expertise in participation, then, we need to redefine its rules and modalities so that everyone who is committed knows why, how and what they are committed to. Developing digital democracy means putting technology and new digital tools at the service of democracy to modernise it. Finally, to structure governance is to foster democratic innovation by drawing on good practices stemming from the vitality of our territories and our local democracy, by developing lifelong learning and by questioning our legislative work in order to make it more attractive and simplify it. There is a need to encourage local initiatives, such as citizen councils and participatory budgets, to seek the views of everyone. The pragmatic motion for a resolution before us continues the work undertaken to develop citizen participation. In view of the findings, issues and proposals of our colleague Sylvain Waserman, the LaREM Group will vote for it, as it is an indispensable contribution to change citizen participation, improve commitment and promote access to voting – in short, democratize democracy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Dem group]] As Pierre Mendès France said, "Democracy does not consist of placing an episodic ballot in a ballot box, delegating the powers to one or more elected officials and then disinteresting, abstaining, silent for five years. It is the continuous action of the citizen and thus requires his vigilant presence. [...] Democracy is effective only if it exists everywhere and at all times. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u121	The general discussion is closed. On the vote on the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for giving us today the opportunity to discuss citizen participation. I am all the more pleased that, in this House, there are few opportunities to mention the priorities of this new ministerial perimeter that I have been responsible for since July 2020. I would therefore like to welcome the initiative of Vice-President Waserman and members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats, which is fully in line with the Government's ambition for participatory democracy. I would also like to thank the group for having chosen, as Mr Little pointed out, the more general theme of democracy: the subjects it covers are extremely topical and I have no doubt that they will mark the months and years to come, as long as they are to be visited and revisited at all times. The great stakes of your motion for a resolution lie at the heart of the mission entrusted to me 18 months ago. I share the findings and objectives that you have just formulated; They are the very foundation of my road map. You have rightly recalled the dangers that threaten the functioning of our democracy: citizens' indifference to public affairs, electoral abstention, and growing distrust of politicians and elected officials. This crime is expressed by multiple phenomena of protest, radicalisation or even violence. Many of you here have been directly confronted. I would therefore like once again to express the solidarity of the Government, as well as mine, with those who have recently been the targets of these intolerable threats and attacks. With every threat, verbal or physical, it is democracy that recedes because every violence is the freedom of opinion that is threatened and the debate is prevented. Such facts, which, of course, we condemn forcefully and without reservation, are, unfortunately, the worrying symptom of a reality that no one can ignore: for many of our fellow citizens, disappointment or even rejection is real vis-à-vis the representative system. They're gone, they don't recognize him anymore. In this context, the main actors of this system are increasingly seeing their decisions challenged in their legitimacy and challenged in their effectiveness. Whatever its forms, this democratic exhaustion jeopardizes the legitimacy of the institutions. As you said, this fatigue bears the seeds of a weakening of democracy itself. At the same time, like you, I see a strong aspiration on the part of the citizens to make their voices heard, to weigh in the public debate. In my view, this is not a paradox. If our fellow citizens turn away from traditional democratic expression, they also want to see recognition of new forms of engagement and mobilization. The subject is not only national and institutional, Mr Little: at the local level too, our citizens aspire to be better involved in public decision-making. This must call for a global reflection. To restore confidence, we must meet this expectation and propose that they do otherwise, i.e. invent new ways of action that give them a real place in the design, implementation and evaluation of public policies. This is the whole issue of the development of citizen participation that you call your wishes, and that has already established itself as a government priority after the great national debate and the Citizens' Convention for the Climate. I often say that these two devices, unprecedented on this scale in France and in the world, have had a rattling effect. I am absolutely certain, after these exceptional participatory experiences, we will not go back. But we won't be able to do that either. I will not recall here the progress that the Citizen's Climate Convention has made: you have discussed it at length on these benches during the consideration of the climate change bill and the strengthening of resilience to its effects, says climate and resilience. Contrary to what some may have said, including during these debates, I remain convinced that, on many subjects, we would never have gone so far without the sting of the Convention; Maybe we wouldn't have even talked about it. Awareness of the challenges of artificialisation or of the very important issues related to consumption, advertising or mobility is the emanation of the Citizens' Convention for the Climate. I also believe that the usefulness of the exercise should not only be judged on the number of measures that have been fully taken up, partially carried out or ruled out. Its success is also the echo that the proposals and themes brought forward by these 150 citizens have had in the opinion and within the professional sectors concerned by the proposed developments. Be assured that we take a lucid look at the strengths and weaknesses of such a device, of which we assume the unprecedented dimension, and therefore perfectible. We have not yet finished drawing all the lessons from it. But already, recognize that its greatest virtue lies in this bet: to recognize the citizen an ability to contribute to the public good, based on informed information, to participate in the construction of the general interest, to pose himself singularly in the capacity to change the devices; It also recognizes its ability to have some of the solutions to be implemented to solve collective problems. The Convention has clearly shown that it is possible to overcome conflicts and build consensus by involving citizens in the elaboration, transparent and debated, of concrete solutions. You never win caricature, Mr. President Pancher.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u123	Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u124	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr. Sylvain Templier also applauds]] It would not be my idea to caricature the Grenelle de l'environnement, but the idyllic version that you proposed on the assumption that the lack of follow-up would have been the only problem, seems a little simplistic. It was a little more complicated than that, since obviously those who had been gathered around the table no longer discussed together once the table was removed. As you are a fan of the rapid democratic debate to give lessons, I urge you not to fall into the caricature on these subjects.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u125	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u126	The challenge here is to allow citizens to be no longer only arbitrators at the time of the elections, but also to be fully actors in the democratic conversation, able to take part, without prior expertise, in the discussion of the general will, to come to democracy on a continuous basis. Several speakers have rightly stated that the development of citizen participation must respond to the need to propose a new social contract, which is no longer based solely on electoral representation. The horizon is a more shared and continuous democracy, which, of course, must be reflected in the traditional representative logic. It is in this context that the conditions must be created for a much more active participation of citizens in political decision-making, without calling into question the fundamental principle of delegating the sovereignty of citizens to their representatives. Participatory democracy and representative democracy must be seen as complementary: there is no competition between the two and no substitution from one to the other. There is no question of dispossessing parliamentarians of their constitutional prerogatives, nor are local elected representatives of their local prerogatives, and much less of creating competition from legitimacys that could prove to be harmful. This is probably our fundamental difference with you, Mr. Prud'homme, and with what you represent. You spend your time questioning representative democracy. One wonders why, when you are yourself a result of the representative vote. I believe that this quarrel between representative democracy and participatory democracy is dangerous. Participatory democracy must strengthen, strengthen and regenerate representative democracy, not undermine it. This is the reason for a ministerial scope dedicated to citizen participation and linked to relations with Parliament. Strengthening the mechanisms for participation does not exempt us from a more comprehensive reflection on the powers and balances of representative democracy, Mr Little recalled. This is the subject of this niche, and I would like once again to welcome the initiative of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats and its President. As you said in your speeches, proposing a new pact of trust between citizens and their representatives is based on a strong conviction: public participation in the drafting of the decision is not only necessary for its effectiveness, but also, and above all, enhances its legitimacy. It is this type of approach that must now be fully systematized and integrated into the process of public policy development and evaluation. I therefore fully endorse your proposal to "promote a methodology that can improve and develop participatory approaches. To produce collective intelligence, it is necessary to mobilize specific skills and knowledge. That is why, for the past 18 months, the Government has been working to build a new democratic engineering, with the dual objective of creating credibility and systematizing citizen participation. Systematizing it is to include it as an additional link in the chain of public policy development, implementation and evaluation. This does not mean, so much as is necessary, systematically checking the box of citizen participation, to give yourself a good conscience or because it is in the air of time. It would be a futile exercise and, in many respects, very deceptive for the citizens we would be asking for. To credify it is to provide the citizens with proof that their contribution has been useful and objectively demonstrate its impact. It is not enough to propose that citizens should be more closely involved in public decision-making. Yet we must tell them how, for what purpose and within what limits. This means defining clear commitments to the participants, reporting on the results of the process and keeping them regularly informed of the follow-up. This is the whole meaning of the participation-citizen.gouv.fr platform, which was put online last November. From now on, our citizens will be able to find, in a single digital space, all the non-compulsory participatory approaches undertaken by the State in recent years. They will be able to learn about the resulting proposals, the Government's responses to them, and thus assess the impact their participation will have had on the public decision-making process. That is what the Government is called the duty in a row, which it undertakes to guarantee for every consultation it initiates. Meeting this commitment is essential if the citizens who participated are to be able to measure the usefulness of their contribution. It is, of course, a guarantee of mutual trust, but I also see it as a powerful driving force for the transformation of public action. It was in this spirit that we worked with the State Secretariat for European Affairs, with which we co-led the national part of the Conference on the Future of Europe, which concluded last November. The continuing duty is complex to implement at the national level. The exercise is all the more arduous at European level, as part of a simultaneous approach in the 27 countries of the Union. That is why we have set up a new mechanism by setting up a follow-up citizens' committee, composed of fifteen citizens who participated in the initial consultation. The purpose of this committee is to value the proposals of French citizens and to observe how they have been taken into account at European level. At the end of this exercise, they will report on these findings in a collective report, which will be accessible on the citizen participation platform. This is an example of the "structured governance of citizen participation" at the state level that you call for and invite us to. Developing citizen participation does not, of course, mean multiplying participatory exercises without a method or concern for the outcome. That would be particularly counterproductive. With the Interdepartmental Centre for Citizen Participation, whose commitment and unwavering activism on these issues I would like to acknowledge, we are instead pursuing the objective of accompanying the ministries to enable them to organize their consultations within a rigorous framework, which guarantees transparency and impartiality. Last September, "citizen participation" referents were appointed in each ministry, with a dual objective: to enable all administrations to seize participatory issues and build a common culture of participation in all areas of government action. As you suggest, this ambition could be usefully embodied in an inter-ministerial charter of citizen participation. To illustrate the Government's voluntarism, I could obviously mention other innovative participatory approaches, carried out over the last few months: the digital consultation on discriminations, the consultation Habiter la France demain, the citizen aspect of the general states of justice or the consultation on the future of the Alpes-Maritime valleys destroyed by storm Alex in October 2020. Here again, it is an unprecedented mechanism that we have designed to involve all the actors concerned, elected, inhabitants, economic and associative actors, in the elaboration of a new land project, resilient and shared, beyond the reconstruction alone. As you suggest, we must obviously pursue the goal of including citizen participation in our institutions. A first step was taken last year, with the Organic Law of 15 January 2021, which makes the EESC the focal point for citizen consultations. We will certainly have to go further. This is the purpose of the mission on the future of deliberative democracy in France, entrusted by the Prime Minister to Patrick Bernasconi, former President of the EESC, who is due to deliver his conclusions shortly. In the meantime, I believe that it is necessary to continue to innovate, share good practices, rigorously evaluate the exercises carried out and capitalise on the experiences carried out both at national and local level, not to mention, as you wisely propose, to invest the field of education in order to raise awareness among young people of civic issues, to irrigate the digital spaces of new forms of citizen expression and to support the actors in this field who contribute to the renewal of the public debate. I share the feeling of some of you about social networks and the concerns that they can raise. It seems to me that investing these spaces would prevent them from becoming the caricature of themselves and from developing unacceptable drifts. We must not abandon them to those who do not share the same vision of democracy. It is by pursuing each of these objectives that we will eventually find the right adjustments to a new democratic mechanism, capable of restoring efficiency and confidence in public action, an ambition that I believe we all share. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for giving us the opportunity to speak before your Assembly about the Government's action on citizen participation, and to remind you of the commitments it has made to develop and infuse everywhere in France. The prospects set out in this debate certainly do not exhaust all the issues that our country's democratic fatigue confronts us, but I believe it is essential that as parliamentarians today you affirm that citizen participation is one of the keys to re-establishing trust on the part of our fellow citizens and revitalizing our democracy. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] I therefore hope that this motion for a resolution will now receive all your votes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u127	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u128	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 104 Number of votes cast 100 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 99 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u129	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge and others to strengthen parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc (No. 4587, 4966).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u130	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u131	Let me have a thought about Jacqueline, Sarah, Yolaine – who changed her mind! – Lindy, Genia, Marc, François, Patrick, Erwan, Sylvain, Julien, of course for Catherine, Monique, Fabienne, without forgetting Laurent, Jean-Claude, Jean-Yves and of course Clément – my Clement – Achilles and Armand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u132	What about us?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u133	I won't forget you, dear colleagues, you'll see! Today, it is a small step for men but a big step for women, because we are going to debate the equal access of women and men to the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc. Since the 1999 constitutional laws – it was another century! Article 1 of the Constitution states: "The law shall promote equal access of women and men to electoral mandates and elected office, as well as to professional and social responsibilities. For the past 20 years, the joint building has been built thanks to several large laws, which nevertheless have two white areas: the municipal councils of municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants and the inter-municipal executive. Here are a few figures: 80 per cent of mayors are men, as well as 89 per cent of presidents of public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation (EPCI). Men account for 62.4 per cent of the elected representatives of municipal councils in municipalities with less than 1,000 inhabitants and 64.2 per cent of community councillors. In the executive branches of the intercommunities, the proportion of men serving as Vice-Presidents of the EPCI is 74.4%. In municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants, where parity rules apply, the municipal councils have 48.5 per cent women. These figures alert us collectively and push us to act. Experience has shown that without legislative measures, the factors that explain the underrepresentation of women are so ingrained that parity is never self-evident. As early as 2018, the Association of Mayors of France and Presidents of Intercommunality (AMF), the Association of Rural Mayors of France (AMRF) and the Intercommunalities of France, as well as the High Council for Equality between Women and Men (HCEFH) called in a communiqué to legislate for parity in local elections. The HCEFH published yesterday a note setting out proposals to strengthen the position of women in the local bloc – I invite you to give it a careful reading. The bill we are looking at today has its origin in section 28 of the Act of 27 December 2019 on engagement in local life and proximity to public action, which provided that we would legislate before 31 December 2021 on this issue. So in 2021, in the Law Committee, we conducted a flash mission on parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc – Raphaël Schellenberger, who is not present today, and I myself were the rapporteurs – and we presented our conclusions last October. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Before I introduce the bill, I would like to thank all the actors heard during the work of the flash mission, and then the examination of the text, for their valuable assistance, not to mention the chair of the Law Commission, who was able to show, once again, his qualities of perseverance. I also thank all members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, whom I cannot mention individually, for their support. The text makes several proposals. With regard to the less populated communes, which were dealt with in the first three articles, he suggested that the joint list vote should be extended: this solution had appeared to be the most legible for both candidates and voters, and the most relevant for the rapid establishment of effective parity. The adoption of such a provision very early in the next municipal elections would make it possible to start work on the lists at an early stage – this seems very important to me. This provision is the subject of a broad consensus within the elected associations, I mentioned, as well as on the part of the HCEFH. Such a provision could, however, undermine the principle of pluralism guaranteed by the Constitution, since the establishment of lists in the least populated municipalities might prove to be difficult. In order to limit this, a number of parallel measures are planned: firstly, the proposed law reduces the number of members of the municipal council in communes of between 500 and 999 inhabitants, which would increase from 15 to 13 members, thus creating a new layer; Secondly, it authorises the deposit of incomplete lists in all municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants; Third, it extends the derogations from the principle of completeness of the municipal council, currently provided for communes of less than 500 inhabitants, to communes between 500 and 999 inhabitants. With regard to the Vice-Presidents of the EPCI, I proposed in the original version of the text an original solution, from a senatorial source, which, however, was not retained in committee. I suggested that we should not go back to their method of majority voting, so as not to upset territorial and political balances. In order to strengthen the presence of women among the Vice-Presidents, however, article 4 of the draft law provided that the gender distribution of the Vice-Presidents should be proportional to the gender distribution of all members of the legislative body. For example, if women represented 20 per cent of the members of the deliberative assembly, they had to hold at least 20 per cent of the vice-presidents. This arrangement had two advantages: first, to strengthen the presence of women in inter-communal executive bodies; Secondly, it was pragmatic in that it would have followed developments on the part of women in the body, making it unnecessary to legislate on this point. I have tabled an amendment aimed at re-establishing these provisions, however, by amending the wording. I would also like to acknowledge the work of Mrs Marie-George Buffet, who proposed a formulation to which I gave a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u134	Excellent amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u135	I therefore hope that we will succeed in convincing the National Assembly to re-establish Article 4. On the ground, expectations are very high. The five articles in the text seem to me to respond, although in a limited way, to the disenchantment of our fellow citizens – the minister delegate spoke of "democratic fatigue". According to a survey by the Institut Montaigne published this morning, young women are driving societal and political developments. They are at the forefront on many subjects and represent a driving force for the overall evolution of socio-political attitudes to gender issues. Above all, 61% of young women disagree with the idea that "men and women will always have different views and ways of being because of their gender," versus 36% of women in the generation of parents – of whom I am – and baby boomers. The evolution of young women over generations is stronger than that of men. They have a more pronounced taste for protest than other generations, but they strongly respect the democratic framework, "repelling... political violence." Faced with these too masculine forms of politics, they struggle to find their place. [[Marie-George Buffet and Albane Gaillot applaud]] [[Smile]] Today you have the opportunity to send to all women who look at us the following message: "You have your place! You're legitimate! You're competent! " Thank you for your applause! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Marie-George Buffet and Mr Christophe Euzet also applaud]] Let us bring women into our communes and intercommunalities, this is the first step of our democracy. They're counting on us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u136	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u137	The proposal for a law to strengthen parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc that we are considering presents a clear objective: to promote the presence of women in the municipal councils of municipalities of less than 1000 inhabitants, by introducing in them a joint list vote. Even if the Government shares the objective of parity expressed in this text, it will issue a wisdomal position that can be explained by the questions raised by the provisions of the proposed law as to the necessary articulation and balance that must be maintained between the objective of parity and the constitutional principle of political pluralism. I'll have a chance to come back in a few moments. You recalled, Madam rapporteur, "the law promotes equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elected office." This bill is fully in line with this provision of article 1 of the Constitution. She even comforts her. In the area of gender equality, significant progress has been made in recent years in the assemblies of local authorities and should be welcomed. The Act of 17 May 2013 on the election of departmental councillors, municipal councillors and community councillors introduced two major measures, which should be welcomed: on the one hand, it has created a joint binominal majority vote for the election of departmental councillors; On the other hand, it lowered the threshold for voting on the joint list for the election of municipal councillors, allowing this method of voting to be extended to municipalities between 1000 and 3500 inhabitants. Indeed, at the time, some had expressed doubts while no one today would question the principles of this 2013 law. This is basically a slow and continuous process of improvement on which we must continue to move. That is what you are proposing to do, Madam rapporteur. In the aftermath of the 2020 municipal elections, the proportion of women in municipal councils rose to 42.4 per cent, compared with 39.9 per cent at the time of the 2014 general renewal. The proportion of women mayors has also increased to 19.8 per cent, compared with 16.9 per cent between 2014 and 2020. The same applies to the proportion of female assistants, which rose from 29.1 per cent to 33.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u138	It's fulgurating as progress!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u139	The list voting, by requiring the deposit of lists of equal candidates, has made a major contribution to the feminization of municipal councils. Everyone knows that without these provisions, it would not have made such progress. Consequently, the attention paid by this text to municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants is relevant in that they represent 71% of the communes of France, i.e. the vast majority of the elected representatives. However, a complete extension of the list vote to these communes does not go without saying and raises several questions, in particular of a constitutional nature – it is in fact the main question, which is real, even if we must not hide behind it. The single-member majority voting system, which applies to these municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, meets above all another objective, that of pluralistic expression of political opinions, which is also enshrined in the Constitution. It is therefore the conjugation of these two objectives which raises questions and which should be combined as best as possible. This method of voting is in keeping with the spirit of the law of 5 April 1884 which founded the republican bases of communal freedoms. It guarantees voters the designation of citizens with confidence, with a focus on people rather than partisan instructions. It allows great freedom at the time of the candidacy, with the possibility to stand individually or collectively and admits at the time of the vote the practice of panaching. This method of voting also makes it possible to overcome the difficulty of making lists, which has sometimes been encountered, and promotes pluralistic political expression within the commune. However, as I know for having sometimes practiced in the commune of 700 inhabitants of which I was mayor, it also has its limits, beyond the question of parity. I know many associations of elected or elected representatives who, beyond the question of parity, taste moderately the joys of panaching. I recall that, if I remember correctly, the law has evolved. Was a time, indeed, when one could even be elected without ever having been a candidate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u140	As in the popular elementary school!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u141	...which, from a democratic point of view, raises some questions, even if these are sometimes the joys of local elections. Therefore, the dry inclusion of all municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants raises real questions about pluralism, which some will not fail to raise, and which I myself raise. The Constitutional Council has already dealt with this issue in 2013, during the examination of the law I have mentioned, concerning the election of departmental, community and municipal councillors. In the case of lowering the threshold for the application of the list of communes of 3500 inhabitants to those of 1000 inhabitants, the Constitutional Council recognized that difficulties could arise in the constitution of the joint lists of candidates, but that they appeared to be sufficiently limited in view of the threshold, and that this did not result in an unconstitutional violation of the principle of pluralism of the currents of ideas and opinions. The difficulties in drawing up lists of candidates, however, appear to be more important, as we all know, in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, but this is a global difficulty which is not solely linked to parity. We have, to judge from this, a decline of two general elections for municipalities from 1000 to 3500 inhabitants: at the time of the 2014 renewal, 41% of these communes had a single list of candidates; In 2020, this proportion was 50%. This is, I repeat, a global phenomenon, which also affects municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. In view of these elements, the Government looks with interest at proposals to establish an intermediate threshold for the application of the list vote. Although this threshold is not a guarantee, it seems better to maintain the balance between the objective of parity and the principle of pluralism. The application of the list vote to municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants has finally implications for the composition of the Community councils and their executive bodies in terms of parity. These are, as I know for having also practiced myself, real and relevant questions put by the rapporteur for this text and several other Members. On this point, however, the Government considers that further reflection is needed and that the legal and technical implications have not yet been finalized. That, moreover, seems to me to be the object of the shuttle which will continue if the text is voted on. For this reason, the Government will be opposed to the amendments to article 4. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] I am sure that we will have a very interesting discussion on this essential issue of parity in municipal councils, which is a major element of the vitality of these councils. I was and still am a rural elected candidate, elected for the first time in 1995 in a commune of 700 inhabitants whose council consisted of nine women and six men. So it's possible and playable! This is the subject of this text and of the debate we will have today. This is also the subject of the Government's position to date, for constitutional reasons that you have understood.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u142	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u143	[[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] It is not common for me to speak, as chairman of the committee, on a text on a reserved day, but I wanted to do so today, on this text carried by Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, because I care deeply about this subject. It is a profound personal conviction. Parity is not a symbol, but a source of real progress, justice, equality and better representation of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u145	Our feminized assembly has shown this by the many provisions we have adopted in five years to make equality between men and women a real equality. However, it remains to be done, and our Law Commission has been working on it. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] As Élodie Jacquier-Laforge recalled, in 2019, during the examination of the law "engagement and proximity", we had adopted, after discussions of which everyone remembers how lively and passionate they were, a lowering of the threshold of application of the list vote to 500 inhabitants, thus making a first step, and perhaps the penultimate step, towards perfect parity in communal elections. In discussions in the Joint Joint Committee with our fellow senators, I had had to accept, in my personal capacity, to waive this provision in order for this Joint Joint Committee to be concluded. In making this gesture in the interest of the text, I had obtained the commitment of members of Parliament and senators that we would legislate on this matter before December 31, 2021. We are almost there, and I am asking my colleagues in this chamber today to seize this text to examine and vote on it. I hope that this commitment between our two chambers will be fulfilled. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] I now want to pay tribute to a woman, who was the first chair of the National Assembly's Law Commission: Catherine Tasca. The Constitutional Law on Equality between Men and Women was enacted. Article 3 of our Constitution introduced the principle that the law promotes equal access for men and women to electoral mandates and elected office. It is this law that has made it possible for all laws on parity to come into being. I would like us to pay tribute to her, who was Minister and Deputy Speaker of the Senate several times. She knew that she was the exception, and her fight was to ensure that, precisely, that was no longer the case. For that to happen, rules had to be imposed. She knew that when a woman manages to open the gates of power, she must ensure that these doors do not close behind her. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We must be proud to be sitting in this House, which has 224 women, compared to 63 at the time. It is partly thanks to this first stone which was laid by her, Elizabeth Guigou, Gisèle Halimi and Yvette Roudy. We can also think of Roselyne Bachelot, who fought at the time for these laws to be passed. The facts are very stubborn but, thanks to these laws, the place of women has advanced. We have seen it, since today we have 40% in this House. There are currently 33 per cent female senators, compared to 5 per cent at the time; 40% of female municipal councillors, compared to 21% at the time; 50% of female departmental councillors, compared with 8.5% at the time; 48% of women regional councillors, compared to 27% at the time. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] This progress does not fall from the sky; They are the result of the laws that we passed: the law of 6 June 2000, the law of 31 January 2007, the law of 17 May 2013 and, probably, the law of 3 February 2022 – although it is likely that it will not bear the date of this day, I hope that together we will lay the last stone of this building of parity, as an answer to Catherine Tasca and her allies. She said the road was still long. Today we have the opportunity to travel together the last kilometre, for women, for women politicians and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u146	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u147	"The law promotes equal access for women and men to electoral mandates and elected office. These strong words, which have been recalled, have been included in Article 1 of our Constitution since 1999. This inscription reflects the will of the legislator to accompany by law the changes of our society. On this basis, many legislative advances in gender equality have taken place over the past several decades. Let us pay tribute to all these laws. One can think in particular of the law of 6 June 2000, the law of 31 January 2007 aimed at feminizing local executive bodies for communes of more than 3500 inhabitants, or, as you pointed out, the minister delegate, the law of 17 May 2013 relating to the election of departmental, municipal and community councillors. Yet, despite these advances, there is still a long way to go to achieve parity in political life. Indeed, gender legislation has blind angles, particularly in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, for which the law is not binding, and in intercommunal communities, which are only partially subject to parity. Today, more than 80 per cent of mayors and 89 per cent of presidents of intercommunality are men, and this trend towards under-representation of women is exacerbated in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, i.e. in more than 70 per cent of the communes of France. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] These figures reflect one observation: if we have included in our law equal access to elected office, then we have not achieved real equality. I pay tribute here to my colleague Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, who has stood firm on this subject and continues to do so. Indeed, we can applaud him! As she says very well, if parity is not imposed by a law, it is not self-imposed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u148	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u149	The under-representation of women in elective and decision-making positions is due to the fact that they are spheres of power where, too often, male co-op and self-censorship prevent women from having access to the same careers as men. In addition, there are deep-rooted societal phenomena, such as the unequal distribution of domestic work between men and women, which make it difficult to reconcile private with public or professional life. These difficulties faced by women are at work in all social strata and in all professional circles. In order to actively promote the position of women in decision-making positions and to change our society, the legislator has a role to play: we need to legislate. We know, for example, the essential impact that the Copé-Zimmermann Act has had in its time on the composition of the boards of directors, and the impact that I hope the Rixain Act on economic and professional equality, which we adopted during this Parliament, will have. These major legislative advances demonstrate the importance of strong political will to accelerate equality. It is now time to take further action to accelerate gender parity, this time in favour of women's representation in local politics. Indeed, in the political world, the glass ceiling is particularly thick – it is even a tempered glass ceiling. Reconciliation of family responsibilities with the requirements of a local elected office, very busy, societal norms or self-censorship are all obstacles to the presence of women in elected office. Yet, of course, they are equally competent, equally ambitious and equally capable of carrying out these functions. I will go even further: their opinions and analyses are essential for certain realities or issues to enter the public debate. For my part, I am proud to be a member of a National Assembly that has never been so feminine. That is why the legislator must intervene. Since the beginning of the parliamentary term, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats have been committed to promoting institutional developments that will lead to parity not only in law but also in fact. Parity in politics is a dual requirement, both societal and democratic. Societal requirement, because ensuring parity in politics means participating in removing the obstacles faced by women in the political world as well as in society as a whole. Democratic demand because, in the face of the crisis of representative democracy that we are going through, we must act so that all French, and therefore all French, have the same chance of taking up elected office. To address these two crucial issues, we, the legislator, have a role to play. The bill that we are considering today is intended to introduce a mandatory parity for all elections and executive functions. The text struck a balance between the principle of equal access of women and men to electoral mandates and elected office, enshrined in article 1 of the Constitution, and the principle of pluralism of the currents of ideas and opinions enshrined in article 4 of the Constitution. This indispensable balance of the text was found thanks to the tremendous work carried out since December 2020 by my colleagues Élodie Jacquier-Laforge and Raphaël Schellenberger, co-rapporteurs of the flash mission on parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc. Article 1 of the draft law extends the voting of the joint list to all municipalities with a population of less than 1000. It provides that the lists must be composed alternately of one candidate of each sex. This extension of the vote was likely to run counter to the constitutional principle of pluralism, since, in small municipalities, the creation of complete and joint lists is mechanically more difficult because of the small number of inhabitants, and hence potential candidates. In order to remedy this possible problem, the text allows incomplete lists, already possible for municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants, to be submitted in communes between 500 and 999 inhabitants for which the minimum number of candidates per list will now be 11. Those who say, by ease, by conservatism or perhaps by lazyness, that this is not feasible did not have to consult the subject with local elected officials. The associations of elected representatives, such as the AMF, the ADCF – Assemblée des communautés de France – or AMRF, are in favour of this development, also advocated, as you pointed out by the rapporteur, by the HCEFH. We really need to move forward and take this step today. [[Smile]] Article 5, added in committee, provides that the text is intended to apply only from the next municipal elections in 2026, leaving time for adaptation. Personally, I find this time a little too long, but "one of yours is better than two you will have," as my grandmother so well said. In order to make the evolution more gradual, the text also provides for a reduction in the number of members of the municipal council for the communes between 500 and 999 inhabitants, from 15 to 13 members. This mechanism reflects the special attention that has been paid to the specificities of small municipalities, so that the implementation of parity is not to the detriment of democratic life but to its benefit. The text also aims to ensure parity in inter-communities. It's a real blind spot that we need to fill. The system originally planned, some of which found the writing somewhat complex or impossible to apply, has been redesigned and we will support this new writing, which combines readability and efficiency. I still see that every time we don't want to do it, we say it's complicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u152	Sometimes, yes, it's complicated; sometimes we have to find mechanisms that seem complicated in order to achieve the necessary result. At the moment, you all see this in your intercommunities: there are very few women in the executive. An amendment was therefore tabled to the effect that the distribution of the Vice-Presidents of each sex within the EPCI should be in proportion to their distribution within the legislative body as a whole. I confess not to find it so complicated... Thus, this text is an essential step in accelerating the presence of women in local politics. The devices we are discussing today are much more than arithmetical constraints; These are strong tools that will actively promote a shared culture and give our fellow citizens the place they deserve in the local public debate. Parity is one of the challenges of our time. We must all mobilize, all of us, women, men, politicians, civil society, citizens, to reduce the inequalities still faced by women, whether in the political world or in society as a whole. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] The Democratic Group, mobilized since the beginning of the quinquennium for parity and for the modernisation of our democratic life, will vote for this text, a fine text which represents a very favourable development in favour of equal representation of women in political life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u153	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u154	Women are half of humanity. If they must have – this is a fight – the same rights as men, they must also be represented at parity in our representative bodies and in all places of power. This democratic evidence has always been challenged throughout our history, in the name of patriarchal domination and the division of roles: to the man the city, to the woman the home. It took fighting for women to get the right to vote – it was in 1944 – or the right to work without their husband's permission – it was only in 1965. Twenty years ago, parity in elected office became a fundamental principle of our Republic. Since then, many laws have succeeded and have made it possible to move towards greater equality in the representation of women and men in our assemblies. Although we have not yet achieved strict equality, women have gained their place in politics, in the public sphere, and I welcome it. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – The Chair of the Law Committee also applauds]] Yet inequalities persist and are all the more important when parity is not imposed by law. I would therefore like to commend the work done by the rapporteur and thank her for putting this bill on the agenda of our House. In municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, the glass ceiling seems more difficult to break than elsewhere. The figures are very revealing, as 80 per cent of mayors are men and 89 per cent of intercommunals are headed by presidents and not presidents. This reality corresponds to 71% of the French communes where nearly 9 million of our fellow citizens live. In the commission of laws, I have heard some...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u155	They're not here today!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u156	...to say that the executive of these communes was feminized in a movement that was described as natural. In that case, why are women less present than where parity is mandatory? Just because the weight of mentalities is there. [[Applause the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the Dem group]] [[Smile on several benches of the Dem group]] In fact, the arguments against this text today are exactly the same as those that we were faced with 20 years ago. In committee, hearing from some of our colleagues, I experienced a rejuvenation. According to them, there would be no sufficient number of women to form the lists, which would undermine political diversity; Women do not want to be candidates for elections because women; there is a problem of availability, etc. I'm going through with some of the best...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u157	Potiches!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u158	And yet all these arguments are swept away by the place occupied by women today. The problem is that many will always say that they are more legitimate and competent than they are. It was therefore necessary to promote the fair representation of women by law. The law must accompany certain developments without which attitudes will change too little and too slowly. I therefore support the re-establishment of section 4 of the bill to ensure that women have access to delegations and responsibilities in the inter-communities, equal to their representation. While the drafting of this article could lead to misunderstanding, it is still possible to find an editorial consensus for its adoption. I heard what the rapporteur said about this. Finally, we see the path that remains to be taken when women who have a delegation are still mainly concerned with social affairs, childhood and early childhood, while men are concerned with finance, urban planning or work. [[Applause on committee benches]] Colleagues, yes, imposing parity in politics requires adjustments. But no, these changes are not insurmountable and will not destabilize the political life of our country. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and Dem groups and on several benches of the LaREM group]] I would add that at a time when totalitarian regimes deny women – I am of course thinking of our Afghan sisters (Applause on the benches of the GDR group, on several benches of the Dem group and on a few benches of the LaREM group) – it is good that France, the country of human rights, reaffirms its feminist struggle. Also, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left fully supports this text. Thank you for putting it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u159	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u160	One can only abound in the sense of the observation made by Élodie Jacquier-Laforge in his introductory statement, and the figures speak for themselves: 71% of the municipalities are not concerned, in the same way as the executives of intercommunality, by the arrangements relating to parity – one might not have been a fierce idolater of strict arithmetic equality, these proportions are of another time and they are not worthy of a democracy like ours – and 80% of the mayors and 89% of the presidents of intercommunalities are men. In 2019, we made a commitment to go further in strengthening the principle of parity, and you, the rapporteur, led a flash mission with our colleague Raphaël Schellenberger, whose legislative translation we are looking at today. The Group of the European People's Party is unanimously in favour of this bill. I would like to go back to what Mr Marie-George Buffet has said. As I said in committee, in my personal capacity I have changed a great deal about how to deal with this problem. In 1999, when the Constitution was revised to introduce parity between men and women in the allocation of electoral mandates and elective functions, I confess that I was not really in favour of this type of measure, because I felt that consciences should move faster than law. I refused to consider that the law could change consciences from time to time. On this particular point, I have changed a lot, and I have sometimes defended causes for positive discrimination that I was fighting. Like that, one can really change one's mind on some points by doing useful work. This revision of the Constitution has produced, with its Article 1, results which can certainly be regarded as imperfect, but it has produced results. Things are moving in the right direction. The measures that you propose to us, we must not hide them, will undoubtedly be difficult to implement. In some places, we'll have to find the candidates, but I'll join you fully when you say things are impossible when we haven't tried them. As practices progress, we can see that attitudes are changing, behaviour is changing, and the will to come to politics is also made when the possibility of doing so is reinforced by law. There is therefore a fundamental change in our country, a commendable development, as demonstrated by the configuration of this Assembly. Personally, like Erwan Balanant, I look forward to it. You are proposing a text that has been the subject of extensive work: it creates new strata and allows the filing of incomplete lists and derogations from the principle of completeness of the municipal council. These advances must be welcomed. We were reserved for the wording of Article 4 and I must say that we still have a few questions. We await the ins and outs of the articles that will take place in a moment between the requirement of proportional representation, on the one hand, and the concern for geographical representation of the territories, on the other. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – The Chair of the Law Committee also applauds]] If we still have to be convinced on this specific point, the Group of the European People's Party will vote on this proposal as a whole and thank you very much for presenting it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u161	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u162	There is no reluctance on our part to consider that the under-representation of women in politics in general in municipal councils and municipal and inter-municipal executive bodies constitutes an anomaly, both democratic, given the distribution of the French population, and anachronistic, in the sense that it seems to me that this debate is overtaken by the fact that there would be differences between a woman and a man in the assessment of a situation, differences in competence, differences in availability, etc. Moreover, the practice, in particular that of municipal councils in rural areas, shows us that there has been considerable progress in the representation of women. Of course, when we want to change things – history has shown it in our country – we have to go through the law at some point; It's obvious. It was the law that allowed a rebalancing to which the slow evolution of mentalities alone would not have sufficed to succeed. There are, however, other questions, which the Deputy Minister recalled. One is constitutional: a better representation of women must be reconciled with the demands of political plurality. I will go further, on the basis of a statement that can be made by everyone – which no doubt explains that the conclusions of the flash mission led by the Law Committee were not shared by its two rapporteurs, in particular with regard to the threshold of population to be retained, from the first inhabitant or from 500 inhabitants, in order to introduce the obligation to vote on a joint list. All of us who have many rural communities in their ridings are aware of the situation. Many experience a phenomenon that has been accelerating for at least two terms: the instability of the city council. Many men and women are engaged in a municipal election to disengage quickly enough from their mandates, for various reasons. This complicates the democratic functioning of rural communities. Another phenomenon, more recent and even more prevalent: beyond the question of parity, it becomes difficult to form lists, quite simply. We must therefore ask ourselves about the democratic vitality of the communal bloc and what needs to be done. It is another subject that provokes our preventions and leads us to disagree with your proposal as it stands, even though the committee has rejected this provision: the treatment of women's representation in inter-municipal executive bodies. In the commune and agglomeration communities, which have a large number of small communes with less than 1000 inhabitants, the mayor sits on the community council. The establishment of parity by list vote from the first inhabitant will regulate the balance of women's representation in municipal councils, but not in the main executive function, that of mayor. Today, the effect has not been demonstrated beyond the threshold of 1000 inhabitants. While mandatory parity has slightly increased the number of women elected, it is linked to a natural movement rather than a mechanical effect of the law. Similarly, tomorrow in the small communes, there will be no more – or little more – female mayors, and so we will not be able to rebalance the representation of women in the intercommunal communities, since, I repeat, below 1000 inhabitants, it is the mayor who sits there. For these reasons, one constitutional, the other related to the democratic difficulties faced by the small communes and the third to representation in the intercommunal executive, we are at this stage opposed to your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u163	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u164	Through a number of successive laws, political parity has increased significantly in local legislative bodies. The departmental and regional councils are now joint and we all welcome them. The share of women in municipal councils has increased, with 42.4 per cent of municipal councillors. However, as the proposed law shows, parity is less respected in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. Above all, communal and inter-communal executives remain largely dominated by men, who account for 80.2 per cent of mayors and 88.6 per cent of inter-communal presidents. Thus, by this bill, you rightly target certain blind angles of parity by looking at the small communes of less than 1000 inhabitants and the executives of the intercommunities. The question is not whether one is for or against parity, but how to decline this bill on the ground, in small communes. I am all the more pleased to say that I am proud to be elected from a territory, Corsica, where for the first time in France, a woman was elected to a municipal council, after the insurrection of 1943, when the law granting women the right to vote was not yet adopted. Moreover, the Republic of Corsica was a country that had a democratic constitution during the ephemeral period of independence in 1755, which already gave women the right to vote. However, the Liberties and Territories Group has very deep reservations about the proposed provisions, which would have consequences not only for parity but also, more broadly, for democracy. Applying the list vote to the very small communes, as you propose in Article 1, poses several problems. Behind the rule of parity, this article completely transforms the voting system of small communes. However, the extension of the list voting system to small municipalities may weaken pluralism and, for this reason, presents a risk of unconstitutionality, which has been pointed out by a number of jurists and speakers. Such a provision would transform the voting system by, in particular, abolishing the panaching as it exists for municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. However, the current voting arrangements make it possible to co-build a project for the municipality, with all citizens wishing to get involved. On the contrary, the ballot will politicize elections and often create artificial tensions that villages do not need. The establishment of joint lists for the very small communes, sometimes of a few dozen inhabitants, therefore seems irrelevant because it does not take account of the demographic distribution of each of these communes. Some of them have a large majority of men, while others have a large majority of women, not to mention the distribution of age groups, in such a way that it would be extremely difficult to establish joint lists. Here, practice prevails over theory, unfortunately. Finally, given the significant difficulties encountered in creating vocations in small municipalities, such a provision could increase the number of municipalities unable to form a municipal council due to the lack of candidates. The change to a list vote may worsen this situation – which far exceeds the issue of parity alone – even if the bill provides for a reduction in the number of municipal councillors to be elected. A threshold of 500 inhabitants, as Raphaël Schellenberger suggests in the second proposal of the flash mission, seems to us to take better account of the realities of the very small communes. We will propose with an amendment to open this debate. This position is neither frozen nor shared by all the members of our group, but the discussion would nevertheless make it possible to take an important step towards parity while avoiding the main deleterious effects on democratic pluralism in the smallest communes. The proposal made in Article 4, deleted in committee, that the gender distribution of the number of Vice-Presidents of EPCI should be "in mirror" of the gender distribution of the members of the deliberative body is innovative from the point of view of the representation of women. However, we wish to warn you that such a measure could have an unintended negative effect on the representation of small municipalities in legislative bodies. In many intercommunal communities, small municipalities are represented only by one elected representative, who is almost systematically the mayor – all too often a man. In the EPCI, the majority of elected women come from the largest municipalities, and it is therefore in this pool of urban communes that these vice-presidents will be more selected, to the detriment of the representation of rural and mountain areas. Moreover, this bill alone will not be able to completely reduce the gaps in the legislative bodies of EPCI executive bodies as long as the mayors are mainly men – a situation on which there is no possible legislative leverage. The upgrading of the local mandate, both in terms of recognition and allowances and, above all, through the transfer of skills to the municipalities to give them greater room for action, could lead to more vocations for women and men to overcome the current shortage of candidates. In the end, the members of our group will make a conscious decision on a bill whose objective we obviously share, but whose current wording may destabilise the very small communes; We hope that there will be a great deal of emphasis on adaptations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u165	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u166	I personally thank you, the rapporteur, and your group, for putting the issue of parity in politics at the forefront. It's about time! The last law on parity dates back to 2013. The Assembly then decided to extend the joint list vote to all municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants and to impose male-female pairs in departmental elections. But since then, nothing! Neither on the part of the majority, nor on the part of the Government! We had to wait a few weeks from the presidential election before you finally decided to act.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u167	Nor did the proposal appear in your parliamentary niche!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u168	However, HCEFH, AMF and other local elected associations have been warning for years about the lack of parity in local politics. In 2019, they called on parliamentarians to move quickly towards the 2020 municipalities, but you didn't do anything. As a result, at the local level, inequalities between men and women are on the rise. Only 20 per cent of mayors are women, while 42 per cent of municipal councillors are women. And when they are appointed assistant, they are often confined to the least prestigious themes such as social, culture or early childhood – Mrs Buffet recalled. The situation is even more alarming in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants and in intercommunal areas, where there are no equal rules. While women account for almost half of the municipal councillors in cities with more than 1000 inhabitants, in smaller municipalities where parity is not mandatory, their share is only 38 per cent. The same is true in the municipal councils: in the community councils, the share of women is 38 per cent and, worse still, they are only 11 per cent president of intercommunality – this figure is ridiculous. The observation is without appeal: without equal rules, parity does not come by magic. Your bill intends to put an end to these blind corners of parity, which are small communes and intercommunalities. The Group of the European People's Party endorses the measures contained in your text. However, they alone will not have a significant impact. Extending the joint list vote alternately to all municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants is certainly a measure of common sense. However, no joint rules are laid down for the appointment of the executive of these communes. In other words, parity will stop where power begins. Women will have the opportunity to deliberate in municipal councils, but decision-making positions will remain male-dominated. You also propose to allocate the vice-presidents of the intercommunal groups in a proportional manner, taking into account the representation of elected members of each sex. This is an indispensable first step. However, why not take into account the more ambitious proposals of the HCEFH? In his report, he suggested several ways to ensure better representation of women in community councils. In short, this bill is an assembly of half-measures. While the High Council recommends aligning all the joint rules that apply in municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants to all municipalities, you choose to extend only those relating to the election of municipal councillors, not those relating to the election of deputies. While the High Council makes several recommendations to allow parity in community councils, you prefer to acknowledge the under-representation of women in these councils. You write, in the explanatory memorandum of your bill, that it is necessary to "be pragmatic, since the low presence of women does not allow today to impose strict parity". We disagree. Parity must be imposed everywhere. In May 2022, when we are in power,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u169	[[Smile]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u170	I'll remind you there's a presidential election! Otherwise, take power right now!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u171	... we will put in place a plan to guarantee parity in all our political, administrative, economic, trade union and associative institutions. No exception will be made because we cannot live in a democratic country by excluding half of the population from places of power, Mr Millienne. [[Applause on committee benches. – Mrs Marie-George Buffet and Mrs Maud Petit also applaud]] Equality between men and women will have remained, unlike the announcements, the poor parent of this legislature. We regret it. However, the La France insoumée Group will vote for your text, Madam rapporteur, with the satisfaction that this matter is put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u172	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1145.u173	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the bill to strengthen parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc; Discussion of the bill to restore mail-order voting; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the consumption of products containing nitrated additives. The meeting is adjourned.
