ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u1	The next item is the re-reading of the proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation (No. 5036, 5057).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u2	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u3	We are meeting today because the Joint Joint Committee (JC) has not been able to reach an agreement, which I very much regret. Once again, the majority and the Government are alone, however, with a number of opposition groups...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u4	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u5	... which I want to greet, respectfully, warmly, which help us to bring to life a new law of freedom and equality for each of our fellow citizens. This law also aims to simplify the lives of thousands of French people who live on a daily basis in the difficulties and even the suffering that it is the responsibility of us, the Government and Parliament, to lighten or even appease by a reform that is in the depths of common sense. Yes, it is our duty to adapt the rules to our society, because it is not the law that shapes it, but the other way round. I say this again and again: I agree with this reform. I agree with this reform because, I am convinced, it will improve the lives of many of our fellow citizens. I agree with it because it meets strong expectations for simplification. I agree with him because it is not normal to oblige, for example, our compatriots to bear the name of their executioner. To bear his name, yes; to bear him as one bears a burden, no. Finally, I agree with this reform because it will make it easier for mothers to present their family booklets at all times because their children do not bear their names. As you will understand, I approve of this reform because it is fair. However, as I have also heard, there has been some concern about this reform. Some of them are legitimate and I have tried and will try to answer them until the last moment. Others seem a little more political. Some have spoken of "great chambardment." Others, in a kind of reactionary auction of bad law, spoke of "family deconstruction" – just that. I would like to stress once again that this bill is not intended to change our society but to solve concrete problems that our fellow citizens face in their daily lives. So you will allow me to come back for a moment to what happened in the Senate, which can be summed up in a word: detricacy in good and due form. First of all, with regard to the use name, at first reading, you wished that the parent whose name was not transmitted could unilaterally add his name to that of the child, provided that he had informed the other parent beforehand. It was a strong demand of single mothers, advocated high and strong by the group Porte mon nom. The Senate has removed this mechanism. Instead, he wanted the judge to be seized by the parent who wanted to add his name, i.e., simply returning to the current law. This is contrary to the very spirit of this proposed law on freedom and equality. But beyond that, it is above all very unfair, since it amounts to imposing on the mother the responsibility to refer the matter to the judge. Because, yes, it must be said, it is many mothers that it is most of the time. I therefore welcome the fact that your committee has re-established the possibility of unilaterally adding on behalf of the child the surname of the parent who did not transmit it. That's very good. This ability does not take away anything from the parent whose child bears the name, since the other parent's name is simply added. It is a question of equality that meets concrete and strong expectations of men and women, but above all of women. It was time to change things in this area. With regard to the change of surname for the majors, finally, the Senate simply rejected the proposed reform and referred to an unnecessarily cumbersome and bureaucratic arrangement that would have allied all the disadvantages of the two systems without presenting any of the advantages. It was certainly a good misconception. To choose between the father's name and the mother's name or the addition of the two names, a procedure through an instruction from the Chancellery Department and an order from the Minister is not warranted. In any case, in our eyes, it is no longer. It was therefore essential to re-establish the simplified procedure for name change, which your committee did on Thursday. I welcome this and thank him for it. This text is far too important to be a prey to some lowly political considerations that I have read here and there in the press. I would like to take a moment to thank the parliamentarians who have taken up my invitation to work together in good intelligence and trans-partisan logic. I am of course thinking of the parliamentarians on my left, who have accompanied the progressive momentum of this bill. But I am also thinking of some on my right who understood that no one here wanted to destruct anything but rather to ease the pain and simplify the lives of those men and women for whom the family name is synonymous with daily suffering or difficulties. I do not know if he will finally vote on the text, but I would like to greet Mr Schellenberger – you will pass on to him, if you will – who accompanied us to include in this law a period of reflection, on which I will return in a moment. This is a concrete improvement of the text. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Vignal, who has worked hard to get to the wording that is presented to you. He was able to count on the support of the deputies Camille Galliard-Minier – and his fine mastery of legal issues –, Aude Luquet and Alexandra Louis, who have long been with us on all issues of equality. I would like to conclude by referring very quickly to the main adjustment made to the text in relation to the first version of the House: I am talking about the time limit for reflection. Your committee has made the right choice to introduce a time limit for the change of name under the simplified procedure. You remember that we had raised this issue in the debates at first reading. It is reasonable, even more, it is responsible to prevent the name change from happening on a head start because, yes, if this law has so much strength, it is because changing the name is not a tool. It is therefore important, while simplifying it, to give this act all the solemnity that is appropriate. Henceforth, it will be necessary to confirm before the registrar, after a period of not less than one month, the desire to change the name. This delay and confirmation underline the importance and solemnity of the process of name change. With this amendment, I believe that the text has now reached an almost perfect balance. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT. – Jean-Paul Lecoq also applauds]] As you know now, I believe in this reform with vigour, with enthusiasm. It simplifies the lives of our fellow citizens, it is logical and above all it is fair.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u6	Mr Patrick Vignal, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u7	As the keeper of the seals said, last week the Joint Joint Committee of the two chambers did not reach an agreement. I'm sorry. So we are meeting today to re-read the bill that I am proud to be the rapporteur. It is very likely that we will have to meet for a final vote on Thursday, 24 February, and the law will then come into force on 1 July 2022. It will be a moment of collective celebration for thousands of men and women caught in the embarrassment of daily harassment, such as having to bear a civil identity that they abhor. They'll finally be able to change their name. We are told that we have not conducted an impact assessment. The many testimonies received and the long, difficult, uncertain and costly nature of the change of name procedure are, in our view, the best justification for the need for legislation. The successive hearings that we have conducted, the study of the group Porte mon nom, but also the debates that we conduct successively in the Assembly and in the Senate shed enough light on the situation. What is the genesis of this bill? One morning, I received the spokesperson for the group Porte mon nom, Marine Gatineau Dupré, who told me about the difficulties that separated parents had in taking a plane or driving their child to the hospital. At first, I wondered if there were any more important subjects – economics, security, immigration, "great replacement" for some – and then I realized that these concerns of everyday life affected many people around me. Besides, I know, Mr. Keeper of Seals, that your e-mail box is, like mine, every day full of requests. The starting point is therefore the proposal of this collective and I welcome it. It would be time for the laws also to start from the ground and be not only legally discussed and amended with Parisian cabinets, but also voted with collectives. Perhaps that's how the French will find their way back to the polls, trusting us. The collective's request was limited to the use name to be added: when one of the two parents did not pass the name on to his child, he must be able to add the use name, and only the child. But what have we discovered, with citizen power? We've discovered icy testimonies, where a seventy-year-old tells you that she doesn't want her executioner's name on her grave. For this person alone, this law deserves to exist. Also imagine when people have names like Abdeslam or Providet, very complicated names that they have not asked to wear but that have been imposed on them. On article 2, we went further, allowing for the substitution or the addition of a name, and so much the better. I would like to thank two people: the president of the La République group on the move, Christophe Castaner, and Richard Ferrand, the president of our assembly. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we have worked with your services, and I must say that we have received your stainless support. Earlier, I said that to know the answers, you have to live the questions, and that is your case. That is what has made us aware of, and that is how we will be able to regain the confidence of our fellow citizens. Laws can be impulsive in ministerial offices – we need the knowledge – but we also need the citizen force, people who live the realities of the field every day and who inform us about the provisions to be adopted. Without being too long, I would also like to thank the opposition. In fact, in the debates we had, it was not really an opposition. When I listened to my socialist friends, or Danièle Obono – with whom I do not share anything politically – I found that there was an interesting concord between almost all the groups. Some members of the Republicans have even simply abstained in the face of a law of common sense, a law of fairness, a law of equality. By the way, I would also like to pay tribute to Emmanuelle Ménard's work. Mrs Ménard, we do not agree on many issues, but you have been able to help us build the law because you have understood its interest, and I thank you for that. Colleagues, I do not hide from you that when the bill left the House, it had a beautiful wedding dress. I thought that once in the Senate, it would be amended in the same spirit. In the Senate, I took the same approach as in the Assembly: I went to see Jean-Pierre Grand, senator of the Republicans group and asked for his support; I also met with Senators Hussein Bourgi, Henri Cabanel and Christian Bilhac. I went to the co-workers and said, "It's the end of the quinquennium, think of those kids watching us in the stands. What a pride to end up with a law that doesn't take anything from anyone, a law that gives justice and fairness! » Unfortunately, some of them have been politically motivated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u8	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u9	How dare you accuse me of lobbying? How can I ignore the fight of the association My name or even the more than 3000 requests for name change every year? You have the opportunity to remedy suffering, and you are told that you are lobbying or tearing up the family. I do not know if we have done everything right in the legislature. I think we've made mistakes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u10	We have the list!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u11	...but to end the parliamentary session with a law...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u12	...of freedom!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u13	... of society, a law capable of bringing together, hand in hand, the majority of elected representatives, in a chain of union for the interests of the citizens, seems to me to be a beautiful gesture. I hope that the future majority – be it us or others – will be able to trust collectives of citizens and rely on the voice of citizens. It will be necessary to realize one day that there is not only the opinion of the knowing: there are also people who have the daily experience of the field. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and LT groups]] I hope that we will all be here on Thursday, the last day of the session, to vote on the final reading of this law, which does not remove anything from anyone, but puts a heart on it. But I know it well: justice has a heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u14	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u15	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Savignat spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u16	The choice of the name derived from filiation: this is the subject that concerns us today. A vast debate, you will agree, given the failure of the CMP – which I also regret, but which we have only been able to see. It is about the name, not just the one used to identify an object, but the family name, the one determining the belonging to a lineage, to a family, to a history; the one who opens rights and carries duties – succeeds but also rescues and protects his descendants or his forefathers. It is about this identity that belongs to us and that allows us to be in society. This is the first of the things that is done at our birth: to name the newborn is an obligation contained in article 57 of the Civil Code. It is a question of nominating to identify, to know who you are, to know where you come from; to protect the newborn child, so that he may have a sonage and the protection resulting therefrom. One name, we all have one, sometimes two. This or these names were given to us at birth in accordance with the provisions of article 311-21 of the Civil Code. We have not chosen them and we learn with age what they generate. The hazards and sometimes the violence of life can make it unbearable to have to bear the name of the person from whom one wishes to stand out. To forget, to no longer have to face the eyes of others or simply to be yourself, changing the name is a possibility offered by the law. But at what cost? Through what efforts, in what time frame and according to what procedures? Anyone who has never read the disarray in the eyes of a candidate for a change of name, when he has just become aware of the course of the combatant in which he wishes to engage, cannot understand. We all have a story that we bear, through our filiation, since childhood – an imposed story. But once major, we also have our history, the one that we have lived and that, because of the faults or failings of one or the other of the parents, can lead us to want to change our name, just to be ourselves in the eyes of society and not the continuation, through the name, of the wanderings of a father or mother. This is what we are talking about today: not to impose the weight of the past, the weight of the experience, on those who would no longer be able to bear it and even less to assume it through a name that is too heavy or too painful to bear. This will not remove any filiation to the civil status, but will prevent some from having to endure, to suffer the profound pain at the mention of the name. Since the 2002 Act, the name of birth is no longer necessarily patronymic: the child may bear the name of the father or mother, or both when the parents either agree or disagree. Today, eight out of ten children are named after their father. It is often the choice assumed of a traditional practice from which families do not intend to leave. This choice will not only remain possible, but will also remain the rule after the adoption of this text. But our society is evolving: the single-parent family is increasingly frequent and the number of single-parent mothers raising a child who does not bear their name is becoming more and more important, with the legion of administrative complications that this entails, not to mention the possible identity problem that the child can face, often painful and always confusing for the younger ones. It is therefore necessary to simplify the procedure for changing the name of the minor, but also to respect the choice of the major. This choice will continue to respect the parental lineage – the name that can only be that of one or the other of the parents – to facilitate daily life, but also and above all – and it is to them that I think first – to relieve some of the weight of a past that they did not want. I will end with Léon Tolstoy's quote: "All happy families are in the same way, the unhappy families are each in their own way. Then, because we cannot legislate for all those who suffer individually, in their own way and for the reasons that are theirs, still offer them the opportunity to choose; Not to erase, but to forget a little. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, this subject of society has nothing political, it is a matter of the conscience and experience of each one. The text will not change anything for those who reject it, it will open a new future for those who benefit from it; continuity for some, peace for others. We will therefore vote each in our own soul and conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u18	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u19	I do not know whether in this Chamber and in the Senate some are from the old world or from the new world, but what is certain is that they are in another world, to be so hermetic to certain sufferings and realities: the suffering of women and men, mothers and fathers, or children who bear their name or the absence of a name as a burden. In the bill we are looking at, we are not talking about changing names for pleasure, let alone choosing a farfetched name. No, we're thinking about the mother who doesn't want to have to take out her family booklet to prove that her child is hers in everyday life. One thinks of this young girl or this young man, victims of a father or a mother executioner and who, once grown up, make the courageous and healthy choice to no longer want to wear a name that hurts them so much.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u20	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u21	You who are opposed to this text, what do you reply to them? That it will still be for this mother to go to justice because her ex-husband even refuses her the addition of her name? That this young girl or this young man victim will still have to endure a long, costly and random process with the Chancellery to change the name of his executioner and rebuild? What a waste of energy and waste of time! We have an ambition other than the status quo. We want to remove these unnecessary and sometimes inhuman obstacles. All the more so since the text establishes a common and clear framework: the choice to substitute a name or to add another name can only be made between the name of the father and that of the mother, with respect for filiation. Where's the identity loss, where's the breakup? There's none. In the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats Group, we are proud to support a law that facilitates the daily lives of French people who suffer in the face of an administration that hinders them in their reconstruction or in their daily lives. We must not fear moving forward, hearing the suffering and demands of our fellow citizens. The simplified procedure for the change of name to civil status that we adopted at first reading in the National Assembly is a response to these expectations. However, it does not call into question our fundamental principles of filiation. The Senate has shown itself to be sluggish about this simplified procedure and has wanted to recentralize it, to put formalism as a guarantee. We have heard the concerns of honourable senators: it is important to ensure that the change of name to the marital status does not take place at a glance. That is why, in the Committee on Laws, we have adopted an amendment by the rapporteur to add a period for reflection to the procedure. However, we must remain in simplification, with an approach to the registrar. We were ready to work for a joint and final joint committee, but this was a red line for us not to cross under the penalty of distorting the bill. We have not been able to strike a balance with senators on this procedure, and that is a shame. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Colleagues, there's no need to be longer. Our group will vote for this law to add a little more humanity to our world, which is very real.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u22	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u23	There are laws that change things and open up opportunities; they are laws that accompany change and respond to expressed and not yet possible needs. Certainly, this text fell into the second category. Contrary to what some speeches in this chamber or in the Senate may have suggested, the use of the surname preceded by the first name was neither the rule nor the obvious for a long time. Until the 11th century, the surname was not hereditary; the principle of the immutability of the name was consecrated only seven centuries later. In our country, the legitimate child had only the name of his father, the mother's name could only be added as a custom, but could not be transmitted. It should be noted in addition that the family booklet, dating back to 1870, finally frozen the manner in which the surnames were written. The law of 4 March 2002, under the Jospin government, abolished the automatic and exclusive transmission of the father's name to the child. It allowed parents to choose the child's surname: either the father's name, the mother's name, or their two names in the order they chose. Until this law, the legitimate child had to bear the name of his father only in three European countries: Belgium, France and Italy. Subsequently, the law of 17 May 2013 went a little further by allowing the child, in the event of disagreement between the parents, to bear their two names in alphabetical order. If I insist on these points of history, it is to show that evolution has been long, but that it does not stop at what was yesterday. Social development now depends on the right to respect for private and family life guaranteed by Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the principle of non-discrimination contained in Article 14. The European Court of Human Rights has had the opportunity to affirm that the name is an element of identification of the person and, as such, is closely related to his private and family life. The fact that the state is in a position to regulate its use does not remove anything from the fact that the patronymic name is first and foremost an essential element of the individual's relationship with others. The text we are discussing does not stifle the existing framework. It gives it flexibility that will enable it to reconcile a potential personal evolution with the stability required by the identity of individuals. In this sense, it alters the situation in a reasonable and balanced manner. Article 1 gives the right to any person of age to bear, as a practice, the family name of the parent who has not transmitted his or her family name, by substitution or addition to his or her own name and in the order that he or she chooses, within, of course, the limit of a family name for each of the parents. Article 2 provides that any person may request the registrar of the birth certificate to change his or her name, by replacing or adding to his or her own name the surname of the parent who did not transmit his or her name. Article 3 lays down the conditions under which this capacity can be mobilised for protected adults. The text therefore introduces more responsibility and freedom. It will facilitate the name changes of children who, unhappy as victims of violence on the part of their father or who have been abandoned, will be able to choose, without major difficulty and avoiding a path that can be long, bitter and humiliating, to match their patronymic identity with that of loving parents. It complements a legislative movement to which the deputies of the Socialist and related groups have contributed and subscribe. Our colleagues in the Senate have mostly opposed the pivotal provision of the bill, which concerns the simplification of the change of surname; they have proposed a specific procedure under the Ministry of Justice. They also rejected the replacement of names for minors. Finally, they objected to the possibility for a parent to decide alone to add his or her family name to that of the child as a custom. In other words, they emptied the text of its substance, driven by the will to act as if the process of evolution was already complete in this matter. We see this, and I regret it, because it is a rear-guard fight. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] The amendments tabled and defended by the members of the Socialist and Related Group were debated and adopted. As it stands, the text thus makes it possible to reach a new point of balance. We will vote for it because it conforms to a social evolution – some would say societal –, resolves difficult personal and family situations and better guarantees the law applying to the patronymic name, which is a major element of private and family life. We are happy to be together to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u24	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u25	Here is a text that should bring us together; Indeed, it deals with a subject that concerns many of our fellow citizens every day. Unfortunately, we have not reached an agreement with our fellow senators in the Joint Joint Committee, and I must say that I too deeply regret it, particularly on behalf of those who are looking forward to such a bill. Its objective is simple: it aims to allow the French to change their patronymic name or their use name when the necessity the order. It is a matter of common sense, as the minister pointed out, and it is the vocation of the civil code to facilitate the lives of our fellow citizens by adapting to the society in which we live. It is not for the French to adapt to the civil code – let alone the Napoleon code; It's the other way around, and it's important to remind him. So, I hope the objective of the text we will be voting on today is to clarify two types of situation. First of all, the bill simplifies the procedure for changing the surname in the event that a person of age wishes to bear the name of the parent who has not given him or her his or her name. Then, it opens the possibility, for the parent who has not given his name, to add it to the child's name as a use; Of course, the child's personal consent is required when the child is over thirteen years of age. The bill, which has already evolved in our many parliamentary debates, does not impose anything! On the contrary, it promotes a new law and simplifies a complex procedure, while maintaining a strict framework that allows the principle of stability of civil status to be preserved. In addition, we take into account the interests of the child, particularly with regard to the use name, on which unnecessary questions in my view were raised by the Senate at the CMP. I am well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that there exists in our French law a certain sacralisation of the last name. It is our administrative identity that is at stake, but also the links that link us to society and even to our family. That is why it is very difficult to change. The purpose of the text is not to allow people to invent a new name, but to allow them to bear the name of their other parent. Let us therefore reassure our fellow citizens and – no doubt – some of our colleagues: it is not a question of attacking the family but rather of recognizing it in all its dimensions, to the closest to its individual and collective reality. That is why I would like to come back with you in more detail on some of the main aspects of the text and on the amendments that we have defended following the CMP's failure. The first point – the one that generated the most debate – is to create a simplified procedure for changing names. It aims to put an end to a combatant's journey which, every year, prevents many Frenchmen from changing their names. For some, bearing the surname they received at birth is hell. We therefore want to simplify their lives without having to engage in a tedious and costly procedure, as is the case today. By this text, we open the right for any person of age to ask, once in his life, the registrar of his birth certificate to add or substitute for his family name the name of the parent who did not transmit his or her birth certificate. Senators wanted to come back to this flagship measure, but the National Assembly's Law Commission fortunately reinstated the provision, while taking into account their questions. Thus, a reflection period of at least one month will be observed between the filing of the form and confirmation of the change of name, which will help to avoid, for example, decisions which, taken under the influence of emotion, might prove to be hasty – even if I think this would concern only a very limited number of cases. Such an amendment is proof that our house has heard the remarks of our fellow senators and has supported until the House a compromise text. The second point concerns the use name. The aim is to simplify the daily lives of families, especially mothers and their children, by clearly stating in the civil code that it is possible for the child to use the name of his mother in addition to that of his father. We had adopted an amendment to make it clear that it was up to the opposing parent to refer the matter to the Family Court (JAF) in the event of a disagreement on the child's name of use. The rapporteur in the Senate wished to return to the current law: in the event of disagreement, the JAF may be seized by the parent wishing to add his name, so that it may decide according to the interests of the child. We do not think this is appropriate at all. Indeed, the burden of judicial proceedings must be placed on the person who obstructs this simplification measure. I am therefore pleased that such a logic has been re-established in the text, in a new reading in the National Assembly. Finally, despite an unconclusive CMP, the Action Together Group is satisfied that the two chambers have agreed without difficulty on Article 2a. It was incorporated into the sitting by means of an amendment tabled by our group and all groups of the majority, in order to facilitate the change of names of children whose parents have been deprived of parental authority. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, considering that it finally gives any Frenchman the right to bear a name more faithfully reflecting his family history, the group Acter ensemble will of course vote for the text, in its version adopted on Thursday evening in the Committee on Laws.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u26	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u27	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u28	That one can take the name of his other parent, that is, most often his mother's, will not lead to the destruction of society or the family. Nor will this contribute to the creation of a civil status card, or to the interests of the child. All of these arguments, put forward in opposition to this bill, are far from reality. I therefore regret that the Senate was unable to hear the citizens' aspiration behind this text: the failure of the Joint Joint Committee resulted. If bearing his name is a pride for many of us, it can be a heavy burden for some and for some. A family name refers to the identity of a person, to his or her inheritance. He follows the individual all his life; It is much more intimate than a simple administrative name. Many people are condemned to bear the name of someone who abandoned them, abandoned them, abused them or sexually abused them when they were children. It is for them that such a law is necessary. In their case, changing the name can be experienced as a liberation. On the other hand, the name of the person who does not exercise parental authority is often a source of serious administrative complications. As we know, this situation is increasingly happening, especially in single-parent families. Often a mother alone raises a child not bearing her name but the father's name, which complicates everyday life. Finally – it is the legacy of a patriarchal society – the civil code of 1804 had written in the law that the children will take the name of their father, moreover long known as "the surname". Even today, more than eight in ten children have their father's only family name. To facilitate the possibility of changing the name is also to facilitate the transmission of the mother's name. In this regard, our law has evolved considerably in recent years, and that is a welcome development. Thus, since the Devolution of Family Name Act 2003, parents have been able to choose the name of their child, which may be the father's name, the mother's name or the addition of both names. Since the law of 2013 opening marriage to same-sex couples, in case of disagreement between parents, the child is assigned the name consisting of those of both parents, in alphabetical order. This bill will make it possible to take an additional welcome step, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank and salute the author, Patrick Vignal, for the important work he has done. For those who wish to do so, it provides for the possibility of replacing their usual name – the one they use in everyday life – with the name of the parent who did not transmit his or her name to them. This will facilitate the lives of many people, including single-parent mothers, who will be able to give their names to the children they raise. The proposed law also aims to considerably simplify the procedure for changing the surname – the one on the birth certificate – in the event that a person of age wishes to bear the name of the parent who has not given him or her his or her name. It thus makes possible the change of family name once during life, without having to justify it, by simple declaration to the registrar. This new simplified procedure, much expected, will make accessible to as many as possible what today looks like a combatant's journey. Before concluding, I would like to thank the many citizens who have worked to bring this matter to Parliament. The Porte mon nom collective has collected thousands of testimonies from people wishing to change their surnames, which illustrates the strong expectation of a part of the population in this regard. The reading of these testimonies makes a very clear observation: too many are forced to bear a name that is synonymous with daily suffering. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to offer a special thought to these people, who are looking forward to the adoption of this law. You will have understood this: the Libertés et territoires group renews its full support for the text and will vote with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u29	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u30	The proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation is not annoyed. It is a real step forward for thousands of women, men and children who suffer from wearing a family name that does not correspond to their history. The family name is one of the constituent elements of our identity, of our heritage and then of what we transmit, when we have children in our turn. But how can we accept the name of a parent who abandoned you, a father or a mother who mistreated you? How can we not hear the suffering of passing on to our own children a name synonymous with violence? How can we justify the hell experienced by mothers who raise their children alone and who do not bear the same family name as them?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u31	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u32	In order to carry out administrative procedures or simple acts of everyday life, they are constantly obliged to justify that they are their children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u33	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u34	Yes, the text provides a concrete and balanced response to many sufferings, which are most often the responsibility of the intimate. Indeed, the current procedure is inadequate, too cumbersome and too costly. It locks women, men and children in a family name that does not reflect their identity and the bonds of love that build them. By demanding a legitimate reason for the change of name, by providing for the obligation of an instruction by the Chancellery and by asking for the payment of 200 euros, the current procedures discourage our fellow citizens from embarking on what is sometimes akin to a combatant's journey. The deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left denounce the attitude of the senatorial majority who, for fear of deconstructing the family and by refusing to legislate for a minority, prevented the adoption of the text. We reject his arguments, both false and with an archaic patriarchal vision, and we support the bill resulting from the work of the Law Commission of the National Assembly. This text marks a new evolution of our law, which, after having prescribed the automatic attribution of the father's name, provided for the possibility of adding the mother's name to it and, today, that of changing, replacing or supplementing the family name upon request to a civil registrar. The right to change, and not simply to ask for change, is a real step forward, which our group will support. The law must be in line with society. However, the flexibility offered by the text, whether it is the use name, now secure, or the name inscribed on the birth certificate, reflects the desire to make the mother visible in filiation. While this objective is not directly at the heart of the bill, it inspires it strongly, as it has inspired the various civil status reforms since the Law of 23 December 1985 on the Equality of Spouses in Matrimonial Regimes and Parents in the Management of the Property of Minor Children. Today, 85% of the children born bear the name of their father, which is due to the weight of traditions in our society, which remains deeply marked by patriarchy. We will not change this overnight: society evolves gradually, and the law with it. Parents need to be better informed to know that they now have the opportunity to choose the surname they give their child, and above all to accept the names of the father and mother. In this regard, we have a proposal to make, Mr. Keeper of the Seals. As part of the evolution of the rights of the child, a paragraph on parental authority and parental responsibility for education has been added to the articles of the Civil Code on marriage. We propose that these articles be supplemented by a sentence for married persons and persons attending the marriage in order to inform them of the provisions of this bill. Marriage is an appropriate time to advertise. Contrary to what has been said by the Senate right, the bill does not deny the role of the father and does not deconstruct the family, quite the contrary. By allowing everyone to be comfortable with his or her family name, to recognize themselves in his or her identity and to be anchored in a family history, while projecting in the future through the transmission of the name, we give more strength to families, to all families, in their plurality. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] We support the simplification of the name change and the possibility for everyone to bear, as a custom, the name of the parent who has not been transmitted. When we read the hundreds of testimonies presented by the group Porte mon nom, in the light of the stories we have all heard in our constituencies, we want to take concrete and rapid action, because we know the suffering caused by the present system. That is why the deputies of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will once again support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u35	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u36	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u37	On March 4, we will celebrate the twenty years of the Family Name Act, which opened up the possibility for parents to choose their child's name: this was a real step forward, whereas the previous law provided for automatic devolution of the father's name. Now, through this law, parents have the choice, at the birth of their child, to give them one or both of their names, in the order they wish. The bill presented by our colleague Patrick Vignal and supported by the La République en marche group is in line with this founding text and codifies the rules for choosing the name of use, giving an identical choice to the child who has become an adult. This text is expected by our fellow citizens and reflects the evolution and modernization of society. At first reading, a large number of Members from all the benches supported it and improved it with their proposed amendments. I think, in particular, of our colleagues in the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, to whom we owe the amendment of the title, which now perfectly reflects the purpose of the text, that is, the choice of name, but also its scope, the name derived from filiation. I am also thinking of our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group, who wanted the choice of name to include the order of names, which was indeed useful. A new wording was adopted in committee to take account of this request and to specify expressly all the options available to parents at birth, as referred to in article 311-21 of the Civil Code. Discussions and discussions continued with our colleagues in the Senate with a view to joint drafting of the bill with the approval of both Houses. Unfortunately, despite our shared desire to succeed and the many proposals that have been made, we have failed to agree, which remains a real disappointment. We have missed an opportunity to gather around this text of equality, freedom and simplification. Two points have definitely distanced us. The first concerns the use name. The provision adopted by the National Assembly at first reading provided for the possibility of adding as a use, without the permission of the other parent, the name of the parent who did not transmit his or her birth, reserving dual authorization for the substitution of the name. The Senate wished to reinstate this dual authority, including for the addition. No compromise was possible since this new provision was considered by our honourable senators to be only in the interests of the parents, not that of the child. The provision will indeed be in accordance with the interests of the parent who does not bear the same name as that of his child, since his daily life, including his relations with schools, sports clubs and hospitals, will be greatly facilitated, but it will not be contrary to the interests of the child. A provision which is not made according to the interests of the child, i.e. which is not guided by that interest, is not necessarily in contradiction with that interest. Unlike honourable senators, we are convinced that this provision will ease tensions between separated parents and thus benefit their children. Indeed, this new rule will have the effect of removing the question of the addition of the use name from the scope of the discussions, and thus avoiding possible dissension. The dispute will thus be reserved to the assumptions in which the other parent would be entitled to object to this addition. Second, as we all agree on the need to simplify the lives of the French, particularly in their dealings with the administration, senators wanted to maintain the intervention of the services of the Ministry of Justice in the process of choosing the name. For what purpose? In order to avoid the so-called overload of civil registration officers, who would, with the text, have to carry out new missions. This argument is completely inadmissible. In fact, what will be asked of registrars tomorrow as part of the procedure for choosing the last name? They will have to carry forward the family name mentioned in the CERFA document on the applicant's civil status certificate, the exact mission they are responsible for today, whether at the birth of the child, by entering the name chosen by the parents, or after the procedure for changing the name currently provided for in the Civil Code. This procedure is decentralized to the town halls, which are responsible for keeping the registers of civil status documents. Imposing another administrative loop, with a mandatory passage by a central administration, makes no sense and would be contrary to the spirit of simplification that guides the bill. At the end of the day, we will still keep moving forward with our fellow senators – our colleague Raphaël Schellenberger mentioned it at first reading. Indeed, despite the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, the principle of confirmation of the choice of name after the submission of the application was introduced by an amendment by our rapporteur, accompanied by a period of one month. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The La République en Marche Group is convinced of the need to support the draft law in its version adopted at first reading by the Assembly and amended in new reading by the Law Committee. He will vote in favour of this text with pride and enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u38	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u39	"Change of name means changing destiny," said Marek Halter. The name is something that belongs to you and that, at the same time, is offered to society to make you known. Sylviane Agacinski says it very well: "Civil status is the institution of the person in his/her social identity, his/her symbolic inscription in a genealogy, an order that does not depend on him/her. According to her, no one can decide the common law. The "family name" – what a beautiful expression! – is the focus of our attention today. According to the explanatory statement of the original bill, "equality between parents and freedom in the choice of name deserve to be even better guaranteed while maintaining an objective of stability of civil status. From then on, the name becomes a subject of claim: it is a matter of changing the model of society and moving from a patriarchal society, we are told, to a society of equality – equality between men and women, who, victims of patriarchy, would today, thanks to you, be liberated once again by a law of progress... In its first version, the text allowed a son or daughter to abandon his father's name by personal desire: it authorized not only the juxtaposition of the father's and mother's surnames, but also the substitution of the father's name by the mother's. There have been many reactions to this possibility. For if a person were allowed to bear his mother's name instead of his father's name, that would ultimately mean allowing him to bear the name of his maternal grandfather. So we were going back to patriarchy, which was targeted by the bill! You'll agree, the egalitarian claim was badly embedded... This flaw in the original version of the text was not the only one, since it also opened up the right to a card identity that allowed the erasure of part of the identity. As I pointed out in committee and in public sitting, this possibility raises several questions. What about, for example, debtors, who could more easily evade their obligations through a name change, or offenders, to whom such a possibility would escape prosecution – we have already seen? I also wondered about the consequences of the proposed law on the organisation of the state if the French decided massively to change their surname. It should be remembered that this is a general police tool. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, you have responded in part to me about the offenders by ensuring that they will be subject to specific follow-up. When a change of name is adopted at the Chancellery, the national criminal record service, now fully computerized, is immediately informed, you assured me at first reading. You pointed out that "if it was enough to change your name to go under the radars of justice," you would never have defended the text, and I would trust you. Nevertheless, there are still some shades. The Deputy Director of Public Liberties, who was heard by the Senate, explained that "not the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice today have the possibility to interconnect with the National Register of Identification of Natural Persons (RNIPP) [...] fed by the municipalities which must transmit over the water the changes made to the civil status. Admit, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that this weakens your demonstration somewhat! It was regrettable that the bill had not been the subject of an impact assessment, as it was guided by good intentions. Facilitate the life of a divorced woman, who must constantly prove that she is the mother of her children, whose name she no longer bears; Allowing a person not to bear the name of his or her executioner when he or she has been the victim of domestic violence: of course, these demands are legitimate. But why not choose to clarify and simplify article 61 of the Civil Code, which imposes a legitimate ground for any change of name? This would have provided rapid responses to these particular cases. Fortunately, the text presented today has been improved and there is no longer any question of replacing that name with another. Only the addition is liberalized. Similarly, the finality of the change is recalled, as well as the automatic name change of minors whose parents choose to change their names. I salute these advances, hoping that they will not be the prelude to a new model of society in which the father would be even more excluded or dismissed...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u40	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u41	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u42	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u43	This amendment was tabled on the initiative of Xavier Breton, who, as you know, is – along with many other Members – a great defender of the values of the family. Section 1 amends the rules for use name and name change. The bill would enshrine the breakdown of families if everyone could now choose a different combination of names. It would also devote the erosion of the relationship to the collective, claiming to subject civil status to emotional criteria, and the definitive invasion of sentimentalism, subjectiveism and relativeness into French law and identity. Far from finding a solution to difficult emotional or family situations, the liberalization of civil status would lead to exports to the public sphere, which is a matter for the private sector. In addition, article 1 is already satisfied by article 61 of the Civil Code, which allows any person to change his name if it justifies a legitimate interest to do so. We understand that this bill is intended to address certain societal problems, but a name change alone cannot solve all a person's problems. It does not seem reasonable to adopt such an important amendment at the end of the legislature without an impact assessment and without the advice of the Council of State. Hence this amendment to delete Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u44	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u45	This article, which deals only with the name of use, is at the heart of the proposed reform. We do not intend to give it up, for two reasons: it gives more visibility to the name of use because of the filiation by inserting it in the civil code; it simplifies the steps of the parent who has not passed on his name to the child and who wants to add it to the child's name of use. Dear colleague, you will go and tell people who have suffered physical or sexual suffering that changing their names does not matter to them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u46	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u47	I am, of course, expressing an unfavorable opinion on this amendment, which, in fact, I do not understand the meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u48	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u49	This is to supplement paragraph 2 of section 1, by specifying that the addition of a name must be "in a chosen order". If this bill is intended to make it easier to change the last name, in this case the usual name, it should be remembered that this last name is a structural data of our identity and must therefore maintain a certain stability. In a sibling, siblings from the same biological father and mother will no longer necessarily bear the same family name, even if it is a customary name: they may have a single name or two names in a different order. Let's not talk about genealogy, which could become more and more complex. For the sake of unity and the protection of fraternities, I therefore propose to make this clarification.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u50	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u51	This clarification is unnecessary: Section 225-1 of the Civil Code already allows the person who decides to add the name of their spouse to their usual name to choose the order of the two names. Since the amendment is satisfied, I am expressing an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u52	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 3 and 4, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u53	Amendment No 3 is intended to delete paragraphs 5 to 9, which would allow any person of age to bear, as a practice, the family name of the parent who has not given him or her his or her name. Such a provision, a sign of the growing growth of individualism, would mark a upheaval in the construction of identity and could lead to the outbreak of fratries, brothers and sisters who sometimes no longer bear the same family name. Amendment No 4, the withdrawal amendment, focuses on the deletion of paragraph 7 of this article. It cannot be ruled out that a child is caught in a family conflict that leads him or her to accept a name change, then regret it and blame him or her for becoming an adult. Minors should therefore be excluded from the scope of this measure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u54	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u55	Amendment No 3 is not only intended to remain in the rule of law: it merely tends to delete the use name because of filiation. Unfavorable opinion, as such a step backwards is absolutely unjustified. As for Amendment No 4, it would not lead to the deletion of the use name for minor children, but rather to a clarification provided by paragraph 7: the choice of the use name for a minor child is made jointly by the parents exercising parental authority. On the contrary, I believe that this paragraph should be retained and that parents should try to reach agreement on the use name. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u56	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u57	Mr President, it is something that you did not want to move forward and change the law to take account of recent developments in society because you do not want to see the present and the future. It is another one to seek to return to the past, which you propose to us with these two amendments. It's even a bit of a concern to me. With this intervention, I would like to greet the citizens in the forums that await this text, whom they have called for. This bill comes from the ground, from the real people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u58	Yes, real people!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u59	You were right to point out, Mr rapporteur, that there are those who know the law and those who live in situations. I would also like to welcome the Youth City Council, our future citizens whom it is very touching to see here, at the heart of the democratic debate. In such a debate, we may not all agree. For my part, I do not agree with your proposals, honourable Member. Unfavorable opinion on both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u60	We have a right to debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u61	That's exactly what I just said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u62	Mrs Valérie Bazin-Malgras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u63	In my turn, I would like to greet the members of the Troyes Children's City Council, as you have done very kindly, Minister. To get back to the text, without being downgraded, I think you're going to put the fraternities at real risk. The existence of different names is disturbing. If we want to protect the family and the children, wait until they are of age before opening up such a possibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u65	[[Smile]] Before giving the floor to Mr. Custody of Seals, I would like to remind you that parliamentarians and members of the Government do not have to solicit the public. As we are at the end of the session, I am not going to make it a tragedy if some have forgotten it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u66	Mr President, I did not ask the public: I greeted it, which is singularly different. In fact, I've already heard presidents say hello...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u67	[[Exclaims and smiles on various benches]] The president may do so, in application of a rather old local use. But anything that is old is perhaps reprehensible...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u68	Did you address the guard of the seals, the deputy or both, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u69	Both!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u70	I was talking to both of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u71	I greeted them: since it is done, I am not going to do it again, Mr. President. To get back to the debate, I will ask you a question: when a wife marries and decides to take her husband's name as her usual name, do you think that it upsets fratries? It already exists.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u72	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u73	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u74	Paragraph 7 should be supplemented by the words "for all common children". The Senate wished to impose the addition of names on all the common children of the couple, for reasons of unity of the fraternities of the same union. There is no question here of denying the reality and existence of families made up of children who do not bear the same name because their biological parents are not the same: a mother may have children from several fathers. On the other hand, when it comes to changing the family name of the child by adding his or her own name, this change must be made for all children of the siblings of the same union. Being biologically brothers and sisters, they share a heritage that should be remembered in their family name. By consistency, children from the same union must share this name. You are going to tell me, Mr rapporteur, that it is impossible: minors over 13 years of age must be agreed upon and they can therefore refuse. It seems to me that this identical order is nevertheless desirable. If the carrying of two deputy names has been decided, it should apply to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u75	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u76	Mrs Ménard, I share your objective: it is obviously desirable for parents to choose a common name for all common children. However, the adoption of your amendment would pose a number of problems. On a practical level, it would lead to more complex issuance of identity documents when requested for a single child in a sibling. In addition, it would not ensure that all members of a siblings had the same name, since the consent of children over the age of 13 was required. We must and can trust the French. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u77	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u78	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u79	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u80	I understand your argument about minors over the age of 13 – I told you myself that I knew in advance that you were going to oppose it. On the other hand, I don't understand what you're saying about the complexity of civil status and identity cards. If it is not to complicate the task of the civil registry services, let us keep to the present law: we will not complicate anything at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u82	Therefore, I do not consider this argument admissible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u83	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u84	It is intended to supplement paragraph 7 with the following sentence: "It is final. » A name change is never annoyance. It should not be allowed on several occasions, in order to avoid a "à la carte" name that would no longer want to say anything. Once again, Mr rapporteur, I know what you are going to object to: you are going to tell me that this is impossible because, by definition, a user name is not definitive. In fact, it is not a matter of making a name of final use or not, but of avoiding the services of the civil registry – I am going here in your sense – an overload of work that would not fail to occur if one allowed changes of name of use at any point of time as a result of changes of life. Even if it is only used, a name participates in the construction of an individual's identity. In order not to change at any point in time, it must be stated that the change is final.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u86	This amendment is problematic, because by definition a user name attributed to a child cannot be definitive. When the child becomes an adult, the child may legitimately change his or her use name due to filiation. When he is married, he may, just as legitimately, decide to take the name of his spouse as his usual name. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u87	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u88	This is to supplement paragraph 8 by stating that the declaration must be made before a registrar. With regard to this new Article 311-24-2, the rapporteur stated that "the use of the name of use is not confirmed before a civil registry officer, but notified to the administration". My amendment tends to point out that the name is the constitutive of every person and that it would not be wise to be able to change it without a certain solemnity, out of respect for the applicants. In addition, the automatic passage in front of a registrar would make this addition more secure. If a parent who did not transmit his or her family name at birth to the assistant, as a practice, on behalf of his or her minor child, a minimum of solemnity is required. This is the case when the child is over 13 years of age, since his or her personal consent is still required. For children over 13 years of age, this will be an important moment in building their identity. Passing in front of a registrar is an element of this solemnity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u89	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u90	The name of use cannot be declared to the registrar, because the aim is to simplify the procedures and not to make them more complex. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u91	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u92	Madam Member, make it clear that you do not want this law, that it does not correspond to your image of the family. Honourable senators have told us that such a provision would increase the burden on registrars – we have been discussing this topic for hours. I would add that when the Chancellery decides to change a name, at the end of a long, costly and random instruction, the registrar transcribes this change in civil status documents anyway – this step is inevitable. Now you want to add an uncompensated burden, while no one is planning to do so. Basically, all the pretexts are good not to say clearly that you do not want measures that we are taking for modern families, for women, especially those who are in difficulty. Let's stop turning around the pot: you use a technical artifice that makes little sense to us. You suggested in your speech that we almost agreed, that this bill was good, that it was in the right direction. The reality is not quite that: you put all the sticks you have in our wheels so that this text does not prosper. Everyone has to be clearly positioned. This is an important societal law. You don't want to defend her with us, either. What do you want me to say? Accept this cleavage!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u93	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u94	You're wrong, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u95	Ah, all right! There are, however, twenty amendments!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u96	Since the beginning of the examination of this text, I have proposed amendments, both in committee and in session, trying to do so in the most constructive way possible. At first reading, I had already said that, with a few corrections, I was absolutely not opposed to Article 1, on the use name. I don't speak for the Senate. Not only do I not sit in the upper chamber, but I do not agree with everything that is proposed – far from it. However, the declaration of consent before a registrar for a minor over the age of 13 would bring a little solemnity at that time. Mr Minister, you yourself told us in this House, at first reading, that the requests for name change were about 3000 to 4000 people a year in France. I assume that this figure is much lower if we consider only minors between the ages of 13 and 18. This represents only a few cases per year in each city or department that will not overwhelm the civil registry administration and services. It does not seem to me completely aberrant to confer a little solemnity at this time by asking the child – who must anyway, as the text provides, give his consent for the addition of the parent's name for use – to confirm his choice before a registrar. I do not see how such a provision would be a way for me to express my opposition to this bill, which I approve in part – only in part, certainly. Suffer that I do not absolutely agree with everything you propose: this can happen, that is even what oppositions serve.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u97	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u98	It is an amendment of consistency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u99	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u100	With this amendment, I come back to a phrase used in paragraph 8: "in due course". I had already raised this problem at first reading. The text provides that a parent who wishes to add his or her name to the name of his or her child's use must inform the other parent – the one who transmitted his or her patronymic name – "in good time". I have already mentioned my questions about this formula, which seems a little blurry to me. You're going to tell me again that it's because I'm against the text, but it's not. At first reading, Mr rapporteur, you justified the use of these words by explaining that the wording was inspired by Article 373-2 of the Civil Code, which states that "any change of residence of one of the parents, if it changes the manner in which parental authority is exercised, must be the subject of prior and timely information from the other parent". Since the expression is already used in another article of the Civil Code, you consider that it can be repeated. However, in my view, this notion is too vague with regard to a name change. While one can understand its use for a change of residence – which involves steps such as the signing of a lease, a move or even school registrations – the question arises quite differently with respect to a name change, which does not have the same material implications. The phrase "in good time" allows all interpretations – it is not I who say it, it is comments of jurisprudence. It would therefore seem to me better to use another expression, for example "within a reasonable time", simpler to use in law, more commonly accepted and therefore clearer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u101	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u102	Your amendment is intended to delete the words "in good time". It would therefore have the opposite effect of the one you are looking for, since the information of the other parent is no longer subject to any temporal constraint. I consider it preferable to retain these terms, which may be taken into consideration by the judge if the judge is seized of the matter in the event of a disagreement. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u103	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u104	Disadvantaged too.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u105	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u106	In a constructive spirit, nothing prevents you from correcting or under-amending my amendment if you feel that the term "reasonable time" is a little more relevant. As rapporteur, you have the opportunity to do so. I have a problem with the term "timely" because it could create unstable situations. The child could thus be named differently depending on whether he or she is with his or her father or mother – he or she would either bear his or her new name or original name, as the case may be. It does not seem to me to be appropriate to use the phrase "in good time" in the text, as it could give rise to many interpretations. You're pointing out that no, minister, but we'll see what we can do! This could be problematic in difficult separation contexts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u107	Amendment No 17 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u108	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u109	I had planned to simply say, "Defensed! But your reaction to Amendment No. 21 by Mrs Ménard, the rapporteur, the minister, suggests to me that you are a little uncomfortable on this issue. The text provides that consent is required for minors over 13 years of age. With this amendment, we propose to supplement paragraph 9 – not 8 as Ms Ménard – by stating that this consent must be obtained before a registrar. We just had this discussion. I sincerely believe that the additional burden that you invoke could only be beneficial given the solemnity that a name change demands. That is why we want the minor to give his consent before a registrar.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u110	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u111	The name of use is not the subject of any registration – I say none – in the civil register.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u112	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u113	The intervention of a registrar is therefore not appropriate, quite simply. On the other hand, because we trust the youth, the consent of the child over the age of 13 will be obtained by the agent in charge of registering the application for the identity document if it is accompanied by an application for addition to the name of use only. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u114	We don't have the same conception of things, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u115	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 6 and 29. Amendment No 6 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u116	I will defend this new amendment, at the risk of being accused of obstructing – which, as you know, is absolutely not my will...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u117	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u118	I feel a little ironic to you, Minister! [[The rapporteur and the minister raise their arms to heaven]] With this amendment, I would like to provide for a one-year period of reflection in paragraph 9. I'll see you jump! But, I repeat, a change of family name is not an insignificant step. Minister, I would like to ask you a question: at this point, when a person requests a change of name from your services, how long does the investigation take?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u119	In the case of the change of surname, ten to twelve months...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u120	Ten to twelve months? During this period, the person can therefore withdraw his request, withdraw...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u121	I was just talking to you about changing your last name. But here we are discussing the change of use name, which does not require even a second. We don't get the Chancellery for the usual name. Excuse me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u122	You will be able to speak if you wish in a moment, Minister. What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u123	I see that a large number of people are attending our debates in the fora. I will be clear: we wanted to simplify the law, as we do in section 2, for people who wish to change their names for various reasons – for example, it may be a difficult name to wear, or your executioner's name. Go ask the street citizen if he thinks the laws are in line with what he wants, if we go fast enough to change society. I am telling you in a very friendly and friendly way, Madam Member, because I know that you are an elected candidate on the ground. Imagine someone who has decided to change their name because it represents a burden, a ball. Should we ask him to wait a year to be sure that at the end of this period, he will have thought well? When we submitted this text to honourable senators, we anticipated that they would make this type of request. I must admit, they have proposed a three-month time limit for reflection. We prefer to trust the French and set a period of one month, during which the person wishing to change his name will be able to retract. I heard someone pretending that a young adult could go to town hall one morning to ask for a name change because his father or mother wouldn't want to lend him his car! Let's stop infantilizing our fellow citizens and let's trust them! Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u124	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u125	I hear these arguments. As far as we are talking about the use name, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u126	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u127	You forgot to give me the floor, Mr President, but you will note that by my silence I managed to convince Mrs Ménard!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u128	[[Smile]] This is often the case, minister: it is by saying nothing that we get what we want!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u129	My silences are particularly eloquent, I grant it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u130	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 7, which seeks to delete Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u131	Article 2 opens the simplified procedure of changing the name by declaration before the registrar to persons who are adults who wish to substitute or add to their own name the family name of the parent who has not been transmitted. The current legislation, which already gives many possibilities in terms of devolution of the surname, allows for change in legitimate cases. The draft law is based on the reference to specific cases that do not justify the abandonment of the common framework, hence this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u132	Amendment No 8 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u133	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 9 and 30. Amendment No 9 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u134	It is intended to add to article 2, paragraph 3, the concept of "legitimate ground" already contained in article 61 of the Civil Code. I repeat, changing the name is not an annoyance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u135	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u136	They aim to reverse a breakthrough that, let us recall, had been the subject of an agreement between the National Assembly and the Senate. We believe that when a person wishing to change his or her surname chooses a name derived from filiation, the State does not have to assess whether or not the reason for the change is legitimate. In addition, the adoption of these amendments would require civil registrars to assess the legitimacy of the ground given. Apart from their role, this would create differences of application across the territories. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u137	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 18 and 19, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u138	I did not have the opportunity to speak during the general discussion to welcome the reinstatement of the drafting of Article 1, which will allow mothers to add their names to that of their child without obtaining the permission of the father. The rapporteur rightly pointed out that this change will benefit divorced mothers or women headed by single-parent families who were at the mercy of a referral to the family court by their ex-spouse or their children's father. Amendments Nos 18 and 19 are intended to emphasize the freedom to choose one's name. I believe that the process of name change should be facilitated, in a process of self-appropriation: it is up to individuals, not the services of the Ministry of Justice, to judge the relevance of such a change. I therefore propose to delete this formality. The second amendment in the amendments concerns the principle, which you have retained, of a single name change during life. Even though I understand your concern to ensure the stability of civil status, such a limitation seems excessive to me: each individual may, according to his or her own history, want to change his or her name more than once in his or her life, without changing the civil status. Removing this constraint would not result in a multiplication of abusive requests, with the majority of people not wishing to change their names.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u139	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u140	The wording of paragraph 3, which had been adopted by the Senate, was amended to make it clearer: the reference to section 311-21 of the Civil Code covers all possible names. It is for this reason that the procedure should only be possible to use once in the course of life. If a person regrets his or her initial choice, he or she will have to go through the existing procedure provided for in article 61 of the Civil Code. Opinion against both amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u141	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u142	The same position, for the reasons set out by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u143	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 10 and 31. I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u144	I'm taking it off, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u145	Amendment No 31 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is not supported.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u146	Amendment No 11 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u147	I call Mr Reiss to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u148	It was written, as in the previous ones, by my colleague Xavier Breton and aims to exclude minors from the scope of the text. The mere fact that a child is in a family conflict situation could lead him or her to choose a name rather than another, a decision that he or she might later regret. Such a choice presupposes a certain maturity. That is why we propose the deletion of paragraph 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u149	Maturity: the word is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u150	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u151	Contrary to what you suggest in the summary statement of your amendment, section 2 will not allow children under the age of 13 to choose their names. On the other hand, if the child becomes an adult, he or she wishes to choose the name of his or her other parent, he or she will in turn have the opportunity to use the newly created simplified procedure once in his or her life. We want to give individuals the choice. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u152	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u153	This is an appeal amendment – no opposition, let alone obstruction. I propose to replace the words "rightfully" with the words "de facto", to ensure – but I will gladly withdraw my amendment if you confirm that this will be the case – that the change of name will automatically apply to minors under 13 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u155	I'll confirm that. The use of the words "of its own right", already contained in article 61-2 of the Civil Code, seems to me to be more correct in legal terms. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u157	[[Smile]] Since the order of Villers-Cotterêts, the language of the administration is also French and not Latin. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u158	I have before me an amendment, No 13, to delete Article 4. Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u159	For the reasons already mentioned in this debate, it is defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u160	Amendment No 14 by Mr Xavier Breton is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u161	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u163	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u164	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u165	I would like to hear the advice of the keeper of the seals on the suggestion that, at the time of marriage, the registrars, after reading the articles provided for by the law, mention the right to change the surname with a sentence. If it is often repeated that "no one is supposed to ignore the law", it may sometimes be necessary to devote a moment to reminding that certain rights exist, without going into detail. What is the minister's opinion on this point?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u166	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u167	It is always a good idea to make the existing texts known, especially when they are made to simplify the lives of our compatriots. Only 65 per cent of children are born out of wedlock. The articles read by the civil registry officer – of memory, articles 212 et seq. of the Civil Code – state, inter alia, that "the spouses must respect each other, faithfulness, aid, assistance": they are strictly part of the marriage. These principles may, of course, apply outside marriage, but they are moral, not legal. That's the difficulty. I do not object to your suggestion, but I would like to reassure you above all: our work is closely followed by our compatriots. As I have indicated on several occasions, I have received an incredible number of letters about this bill, covering all kinds of situations – if we have both cited many examples, we have forgotten a lot of them. I think, quite frankly, that our citizens will be aware of the existence of this right and that it will enter into practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u168	The floor is very briefly to Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, who is taking advantage of my guilty indulgence on this occasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u169	In addition to articles 212 et seq., civil registrars also read out the article on parental authority in its new version.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u170	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u171	If you followed your reasoning, it would be concluded that those who do not marry are not informed of their children's right to be involved in decisions affecting them. However, this reminder is well carried out during marriages, which also makes it possible to ensure the publicity of this right to all those who attend: on this occasion, society becomes aware of the law. That's why I was making this suggestion: marriage is an event that communicates to all those present.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u172	Ceremonies are always public, indeed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u173	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u174	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u175	I asked for a public vote, because I believe that, in terms of such an important text, it is necessary to show our citizens that things are moving forward and following the course set out in the 2002 and 2013 laws. It is necessary to affirm this will with children, families and all those who may be affected by this issue. That is why we have called for a public ballot to clearly mark our choice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u176	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u177	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 38 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 34 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-21-O1159.u178	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
