ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u2	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor to put his question, No. 1657, concerning the destruction of the national theatre in Nice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u3	Madam Minister of Culture, thank you for your presence to answer my question. I wish to solemnly alert you and draw your attention to the economic error, cultural fault and budgetary madness that is taking place in Nice with the double destruction of the Acropolis Congress Hall and the Nice National Theatre. These two buildings, built in the late 1980s, constitute major equipment for the city of Nice, for the Alpes-Maritimes and for the entire Côte d'Azur. Today, it is a theatre directed by Muriel Mayette-Holtz, after having been by Daniel Benoin, Jacques Weber and other great names, which will be destroyed. It is a part of the cultural soul of the city of Nice that will be laid to the ground by a form of megalomaniac madness, of personal drift, simply to realize 4000 square meters of green spaces, instead of a theatre. Madam Minister, I solemnly ask you to be faithful to what your illustrious predecessors – Jacques Toubon, who saved the Gare du Sud, and Jack Lang, who saved the façade of the Palais de la Méditerranée – have done to preserve elements of the Niçois heritage and avoid this madness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u4	The Minister for Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u5	Mr President, the issue of the demolition of the national theatre in Nice is not a minor one, and I have followed this matter closely, which is, I know, the subject of debate. It is part of the urban transformation program of the city and its inscription as an architectural heritage and remarkable landscaper, in order to extend the Promenade du Paillon as part of a green casting. This programme is part of a dynamic of rediscovering the architectural, urban and landscape roots of the city, which has already been initiated by the recent demolition of the bus station, commercial gallery and air parking. It is in this capacity that Nice was recognized by UNESCO as worthy of entering the world heritage, under the title "Nice, city of winter resort and Riviera". It is for this reason that the project of the mayor of Nice received, on 18 January, the agreement of the architect of the buildings of France. This development project is, I would like to stress, accompanied by an ambitious new cultural offer around the development and development of new cultural sites, particularly in the field of theatre and live entertainment. That is why I also gave my authorization, on 2 December, under section 2 of the Order of 13 October 1945, for the disaffection and demolition of this building, taking into account several elements. First of all, its condition no longer meets technical, functional and artistic needs. It requires heavy upgrades – between 12 and 18 million euros – and no longer allows for the deployment of a reception capacity and a cultural offer adapted to the expectations of the population. Then, the demolition is associated with a counterpart, in the form of a new theatrical offer consisting of two rooms of 300 and 500 places to accommodate the teams of the National Drama Centre, a temporary equipment of 600 places allowing the reception of large shows and a large front room that will take place within the future Palace of Arts and Culture on the horizon 2025-2026. In accordance with the spirit of the scheme established by the 1945 Ordinance, this authorization is issued subject to assurances concerning the delivery in 2022 of the equipment necessary for the continuation of the activity of the National Drama Centre. I will, of course, be very vigilant so that the theatre can continue its activities fully during the work and that the programme, and then the planned construction of the hall, meets the expectations and needs of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u6	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u7	Minister, allow me to express my disappointment at your response. I know your arguments: they are those of the mayor of Nice – but they are false arguments. This room is far from old-fashioned. It did not hinder – on the contrary – the inclusion of Nice in the UNESCO World Heritage Site. This equipment is a work of art by architect Yves Bayard. The theatre works perfectly and has always worked well. Heavy renovation work was initiated shortly ago. The same is true for the Acropolis Congress Hall. We're going to waste 300 million euros of public money for a simple personal whim. The arguments that led to your decision, and which, I fear, have had to go beyond you, are purely political arguments: it is simply a matter of pleasing a new convert in your majority. I regret it, I regret it, I condemn it. The Niçois regret it and condemn it also because, behind this gabegie, it is their taxes, which have already increased a lot, which will again increase sharply.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u8	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u9	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u10	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor to put her question, No. 1641, on independent service stations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u11	Many French people use their vehicles every day. As the national fleet is still largely composed of vehicles using traditional fuels, it is therefore necessary to be able to rely on a dense network of service stations in both our peri-urban and rural territories. My Sarthoise electoral district does not escape this rule and there are independent service stations in La Flèche, Le Lude, Montval-sur-Loir, Écommoy, Bessé-sur-Braye, Saint-Calais, Grand-Lucé and Saint-Gervais-en-Belin. Moreover, these independent gas stations are often the first shops within a radius of several kilometres and are places of close proximity to our fellow citizens. However, many independent service stations are at risk of disappearing by 2030 due to the very high costs of switching from traditional fossil fuels to energy such as electricity, natural gas and hydrogen. A compressed natural gas service pump costs up to 400000 euros, a liquefied natural gas pump close to 1 million euros and ultra-fast electric charging stations close to 100000 euros, where fossil fuel tanks and pumps cost around 50000 euros. [[Mr. David Corceiro applauds]] This ecological transition, which is essential, creates an immense burden for these entrepreneurs. How can the state accompany them? In addition to this question, there is a second problem relating to the diversification of their shop-type activities. Is it not possible to envisage the establishment by the State of a fund to assist independent service stations on the model of the fund to assist the diversification of the activities of the ruralists, in order to cope with the fall in tobacco sales?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u12	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u13	We all have in mind the role of independent service stations in our rural and peri-urban territories. It is true that, since 1980, the number of service stations has decreased by 75 per cent, which is considerable. Maintaining the existing network is an important objective of the Government. As you know, the professional fuel distribution committee (CPDC) was put into liquidation a few years ago, as a result of which a specific mechanism was introduced to support investments in modernization and development of many service stations. Eight hundred of them received this aid for an overall amount of almost EUR 14 million. We will take into account the cost of energy diversification within the framework of the next multiannual energy programme, but above all within the framework of the France 2030 investment plan, which you are familiar with. A call for proposals on the deployment of electric vehicle charging stations throughout the country will be launched shortly. Existing service stations will also be able to benefit from this scheme. As far as the diversification of the activity of local businesses is concerned, I am sensitive to your proposal. It turns out that throughout December, we have been thinking about this in the context of trade foundations and we are in the process of finalizing a number of proposals. It is necessary to discuss with professionals what they would like to see implemented. In any case, I am open to their proposals. It is probably not possible to establish a complete rapprochement with the situation of the Buralists since, as you know, the Buralists are officials of the State with a particular status. But it is certain that every effort must be made to preserve this network and the dense mesh that contributes, indeed, to the commercial vitality of our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u14	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor to raise her question, No 1675, on the future of industry in Alsace.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u15	I would like to ask you about the future of several industrial sites in Alsace, in particular that of the Knorr factory in Duppigheim and that of the Lohr group in Hangenbieten, both located in my constituency. Knorr soups, known by all, were made in Alsace since 1952, first on the site of Illkirch-Graffenstaden then on the site of Duppigheim. In the face of a decline in the consumption of these soups in France, the Unilever group decided, at the end of March 2021, to cease the activities of the site. There were 261 employees in the factory, of which 50 % of the production was destined for French households. This very abrupt decision by the parent company, whose turnover is estimated at EUR 50 billion, will follow a strengthening of its other production sites in Europe. The situation of Knorr in Alsace is unfortunately not isolated; It echoes that of the Sodicru factory in Breuschwickersheim, whose Alsatian family heritage, for lack of aid, had to be transferred to a large group. Thus, in the face of growing European and international competition and in the context of an optimised margin search, Knorr's site unfortunately had to shut down permanently. All these cessations pose the problem of the country's gradual deindustrialisation, highlighted by the current health crisis, namely a loss of sovereignty and know-how. It also poses a serious human problem, as employees who have devoted their entire working life to it and have a strong local attachment find themselves brutally dismissed. The third example is the case of the Lohr group, a French industrial flagship in my constituency, whose various sectors are in difficulty. I would also like to ask you about the future of French industry in Alsace. What is the state's commitment to the sustainability of all these jobs?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u16	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u17	I will answer you first about the industry in Alsace in general and then about the two particular cases that you refer to. Since 2017, France has embarked on a genuine policy of attractiveness, competitiveness, which has resulted in results in the creation of industrial jobs every year. Now there are more creations than factory closures. This is good news, as France has become the most attractive country in terms of foreign direct investment since 2018. This is particularly true in Alsace, which is economically and industrially dynamic, with dozens of industrial projects being implemented in the Bas-Rhin department. Moreover, in the Grand Est region, this department recorded the largest increase in paid employment, with an increase of 2.7% at the end of 2021, the regional average being 1.6%, of which 1.9% was for the industrial sector. It's an interesting result. Still in Alsace, nearly 500 industrial development files were supported by €1.4 billion of investment. You mentioned Knorr's situation. It is true that changes in consumption mean that the soup market is, alas, less dynamic than before. That is why the strategy of the group that holds Knorr has evolved. For Knorr, as for all cases, we remain very active on the social and economic fronts when difficulties arise. The trade unions signed a majority agreement with Knorr's management last September, and the State departments ensure that employees are quickly reclassified to a very dynamic pool. The resumption of the site has been marked by interest in implementing activities and we remain particularly attentive to the situation. Finally, we accompanied Lohr Industries in resolving its difficulties. The unwavering support of the State has so far allowed the Group to continue its operation without industrial or social damage to date. Here too, we will continue to be very vigilant. These are the things I could bring to your knowledge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u18	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u19	Thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, she doesn't completely satisfy me. The reality in the different territories is not exactly what you describe. It is often understood in the mouth of your government that it is the profits of the big companies that, I would remind you, amount to 50 billion for Unilever, allow to create jobs in the territories, whereas it is the job losses that allow them to increase those profits.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u20	Mr David Corceiro has the floor to put his question, No. 1642, concerning the massacre of dolphins in the Faroe Islands archipelago.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u21	Last September, videotapes of dying animals were looped on the networks. The killing of more than 1400 cetaceans in the Faroe Islands archipelago, the autonomous province of the Kingdom of Denmark, has aroused the deep emotion of our fellow citizens. Against the background of tradition, this massacre takes place every year. The Faroe Islands have crossed a course: 1428, it is the largest number of dolphins massacred in one time. Last November, we passed the law to combat animal abuse and strengthen the link between animals and men, which has since been promulgated. How can we pass laws that end the delphinariums in 2026 and close our eyes to what is happening in the Faroe Islands? Once necessary to feed its population, these massacres no longer make sense, while the Faroe Islands have one of the highest standards of living in Europe. Far from us the idea of erasing traditions – indeed our country is full of them and they often forge the character of our territories – but we cannot remain spectators of what no longer appears ethical to a large majority. Scientists around the world have alerted us to the acceleration of the collapse of biodiversity. France must act to make its values resonate internationally as a key player in the protection of global biodiversity. At a time when our country has very good relations with its partners, in particular Europeans, and has just taken over the presidency of the Council of the European Union, what are the levers for defending this issue at European level without undermining the sovereignty of a country with which, I repeat, we have very good relations and mutual trust?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u22	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u23	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u24	We were all shocked by these images. The European Union has strict legislation on the protection of all cetaceans. Problem: it does not apply to the Faroe Islands, which are not part of the Union and are therefore not subject to the Directive on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora. Similarly, both France and Denmark have signed the Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals, the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Environment, but unfortunately the Faroe Islands are excluded from their scope. The possibilities for direct intervention are therefore limited. Having said that, the Faring authorities are well aware of the positions of the European Union and of the reactions to the episode of 12 September. I note that they have undertaken to launch an assessment of their regulations for the capture of Atlantic white-sided dolphins; the process is underway. Of course, the European Commission does not miss an opportunity to discuss this issue with the competent authorities. As a party to the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling, France supported the drafting of the declaration condemning the hunt that took place in September and asked the Faring Government to extend to the globicphales the announced assessment concerning the hunting of white-sided dolphins. In other words, the mobilization continues unabated. Just a few days from the opening of the One Ocean Summit, it is important to keep drawing attention to these topics to move the lines internationally. This requires a strong effort of conviction and influence. From this point of view, the determination of France and the European Union is intact.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u25	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor to raise her question, No. 1640, on violence between youth gangs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u26	On the night of January 8, 16-year-old Nahil was fatally hit by 16 stab wounds in front of Melun station. Attracted by an apparently harmless motive – the sale of a mobile phone – he was in fact the victim of an account settlement. Since then, seven minors and two adults have been arrested and charged. This unheard-of violence horrifies us all. What happened in Melun is unfortunately not an isolated act: a few weeks ago, a nearby city, Cesson, was also affected by the death of a young man. Here I would like to welcome the fight and the message of appeasement of Aisha, Nahil's mother, who created the Uni'cité collective in order to find solutions to this violence between adolescents. She's not alone. Collective 77 Without Borders is at its side to provide a comprehensive response to this phenomenon. These associations are mobilized daily on the ground, alongside young people, to detect and calm tensions through dialogue, meetings and mediation. These violent acts do not date from today and they are not limited to large towns. For years, the state has been engaged with young people in our neighbourhoods. Unfortunately, many of the mechanisms succeed without succeeding in halting this outbreak of violence. Strong action is now needed. If this is to happen through firm condemnations, we also need to empower law enforcement on the ground, as well as associations that carry out valuable upstream work. They demand genuine cross-cutting actions mobilising all actors – mayors, prefects, parents – and, above all, they demand the strong support of the State. What means of prevention and pedagogy, what actions and sanctions, and what means of evaluating public policies does the Government intend to implement to prevent such violence from becoming commonplace?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u27	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u28	Let me have a thought for Nahil's family. You are quite right to recall that the phenomenon of gang violence is unfortunately not new. Our security policy provides the first answers to this challenge. In this way, reinforcements were deployed to the republican reconquest districts; The presence of police officers and gendarmes on the highway was increased by 10% in the first eleven months of 2021. The fight against drug trafficking also makes it possible to occupy the ground. It goes without saying that more specific answers are needed. I am thinking of the establishment of genuine community justice, of the entry into force of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors, of the means mobilised by the Interministerial Fund for the Prevention of Delinquency, particularly in the field of videoprotection. However, police work cannot be the only answer. The actors in education and justice are essential and it is a comprehensive response that needs to be sought. That is why we are also working towards occupational integration, social mediation and specialised prevention. In June 2021, the Prime Minister launched an inter-ministerial plan to prevent and combat violence related to gangs and informal groups, which is available in each department around three concrete areas: strengthening prevention, improving monitoring of this phenomenon, and developing investigative and criminal responses to judiciate intelligence by strengthening information sharing among all local security partners – social donors, for example, but also local associations and elected representatives are key partners. The elected representatives have a fine knowledge of their territory and the prerogatives necessary to act, in particular with regard to prevention, municipal police and video protection. The establishment by the gendarmerie of elected focal points and the mechanism for consultation and improvement of the service has also led to increased exchanges with elected officials. If there is a safety continuum, there is also a continuum of youth violence. That is why, in the context of crime prevention, we have also set up a committee of parents against harassment in order to involve them more and to enable educational actors and law enforcement agencies to find themselves as soon as the first signs of violence between young people occur. The State is determined not to give in and continue to intervene everywhere to enforce the law of the Republic and to better protect our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u29	Mrs Aude Luquet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u30	I hear the strong plans and actions of the State in terms of prevention and security. Nevertheless, the schemes have piled up, especially in priority neighbourhoods. Many investments and financing have been made for years but, unfortunately, almost daily violence has not disappeared. It is therefore necessary to evaluate public policies: what are the results of past actions and financing in view of what is happening today? As for the associations, they take note of the funding but also expect a listening, an exchange with the State services and with the mayors. Financing cannot do everything; There is also a need for dialogue to help associations improve the daily lives of young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u31	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor to put his question, No. 1647, concerning the police force in Rouen-Elbeuf.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u32	In the face of the increase in attacks on property and people as well as drug trafficking, many mayors of communes in Rouen and I have repeatedly seized the Minister of the Interior since December 2020 to seek police reinforcements in order to stem the rise in criminal acts. With increasing pressure, the minister, after a needs assessment carried out by the Seine-Maritime prefecture, announced in mid-October that sixty additional agents would be assigned in the first half of 2022 in the security constituency of Rouen-Elbeuf. It has also undertaken to present on-site and in person the deployment schedule for these personnel. While the mayors concerned consider this reinforcement to be still below requirements, the actual deployment of these sixty police officers is nevertheless becoming increasingly urgent in the light of recent developments. In the absence of information on the arrival of the promised reinforcements, thirty-two mayors once again sent you a joint call in early January for this promise to be fulfilled as soon as possible. Seized by Senator Didier Marie in mid-January, you indicated, Madam Deputy Minister, that this deployment would take place in the first half of the year – without further detail. The elected representatives of the territory of the metropolis of Rouen cannot be satisfied with such an evasive response to a few weeks of major national deadlines, after which some interlocutors risk changing. In the recent past, other such promises have never been fulfilled. We are on 1 February and no information about any actual arrival of peacekeepers has come to us. My question is simple: when will they arrive in the field? February 15th? April 15th? June 15th? You will understand that citizens need transparency and precision in the practical implementation of ministerial commitments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u33	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u34	I apologize for the absence of the Minister of the Interior, who instructed me to tell you that the expectations of the French in terms of security, which you are relaying, are obviously legitimate. They have been the subject of a priority policy of the Government since 2017, closest to the territories and in connection with local elected officials, to enhance the effectiveness of law enforcement. This year, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior is increasing by 1.5 billion euros. Digital transformation continues with the masecurité.fr application and the possibility of filing complaints online – this is a real step forward. The first results are there, even if no one thinks of denying the violence and incivilities to which our fellow citizens, especially the elected ones, are subjected. The law on criminal responsibility and internal security and the law on trust in the judicial institution, recently adopted by your assembly, will allow further progress, in the continuity of the Beauvau of security. Just a few weeks ago, the President of the Republic presented in Nice ambitious prospects for the security of the French, deciding to commit additional resources to equip the national police and gendarmerie with new tools. The issue of staffing is central, even if security policy cannot be limited to it. The President of the Republic kept his commitment to create 10,000 police and gendarmes posts: recruitment had taken place since the beginning of the quinquennium. A real operational reserve of the National Police will be set up and all police districts will have benefited from an increase in their strength under this legislature. As far as the public security district of Rouen is concerned, I confirm that it will benefit, in accordance with the commitments made, from a reinforcement of sixty police officers before the end of the semester. As of 30 November 2021, this police district was supported by an operational force of 597 officers and guards, plus 20 police officers assigned to the Republican reconquest district of Hauts-de-Rouen, a total of 617 officers – compared to only 500 at the end of 2016. In addition, the departmental Directorate of Public Security can rely on eighty-eight deputy police officers in Rouen. The means are therefore at the rendezvous and the commitments fulfilled.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u35	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u36	Thank you for the clarifications that only confirm an announcement. Nevertheless, the situation is growing considerably. A police officer was recently assaulted – hit at an urban rodeo in Grand-Couronne, in the security district we are talking about – and several armed robberys took place in the town of Elbeuf and its immediate periphery. The elected representatives, who are multiplying preventive actions on the ground, are awaiting the deployment of these sixty peacekeepers. At least they wish – it is quite legitimate – to be informed in advance, in the greatest transparency, because it is about the confidence of citizens and elected representatives in the commitments you have made.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u37	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor to put his question, No. 1674, on administrative procedures for foreigners.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u38	The dematerialisation of applications for renewal or residence permits has certainly erased the endless morning queues in front of the prefectures, but not all problems are solved, far from it. All too often, applicants now face the complete impossibility of filing their files. The device is completely engorged. This is the case, for example, in the prefecture of my constituency in Essonne. In other departments, the impossibility of getting an appointment on the Internet, even by repeating efforts for long weeks, is such that a black registration market has been set up. When the blockage is complete, there is no alternative but to refer the administrative court to force the prefectures to grant an appointment, or to solicit an elected official with the ear of the administration. The consequences of these blockages can be very serious: loss of employment or right to work, precariousness, deprivation or even loss of housing and social assistance, for the persons concerned and for their families. The prefecture implicitly places itself in an illegal position because of its inability to advance cases which the law requires to be dealt with in a timely and timely manner in order to avoid that persons who have submitted an application, in particular mothers of French children or active employees whose work honours their company and France, are considered to be in an irregular situation. It is concluded that, at present, the first application files filed at the beginning of 2021 have still not been taken into account and the applicants are being forced to renew their receipt every three months in the meantime. At the Palaiseau sub-prefecture, for example, it is today several hundred people who are in breach of their rights. I will cite some cases of which I have known: Abdelkader, with valuable skills, whose desperate employer fears that his business will be disrupted if the renewal procedure is not initiated; Soumia, married to a Frenchman, whom her head of service is about to submit to a work stoppage if she does not receive an appointment to renew her visa; Zhou, an international-class university working in France for a prestigious higher education body, rejected her application for naturalization two years ago on the futile ground that she participated in an international symposium and whose appeal is not examined; Chahid, who had also been waiting for two years for his family reunification file to be processed so that his pregnant wife would join him. [[Hubert Wulfranc applauds]] In the face of this dismaying picture, what resources are available to prefectures? What strategy do you intend to adopt to ensure that applicants are treated with dignity and that they are no longer placed, because of the slow administrative response, in absurd and unbearable human situations?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u39	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u40	As Minister Delegate to the Minister of the Interior responsible for asylum, integration and naturalization, I will answer your question, Mr Villani. You have just mentioned situations that deserve to be examined, but our policy on integration, reception, asylum and naturalisation cannot be summed up. It is important to remember that with the government of Jean Castex, we decided to naturalize the front-line workers who held the country during the confinements by speeding up the processing of their requests. They are now our compatriots and the outcome of these exemplary journeys deserves, I believe, to be welcomed. In order to improve public reception, particularly in the current health context, the prefectures have set up an online dating service, a subject on which I have already been asked many times during the oral question-and-answer sessions without debate and on which I am very happy to reply again today. The difficulties had been clearly identified and the Government, together with the prefectures, was working to resolve them. For several years, the Ministry of the Interior has been increasing the number of prefectures. In 2020, it awarded their foreign services the equivalent of 610 contract positions to cope with the peaks of activity and, in 2021, the Government validated a reinforcement plan of 150 ETPT – full-time equivalent worked – of which 122 were directly directed to their "stay" services to relieve their congestion. In order to ensure the best possible support of foreign users in the dematerialization of procedures, a plan of reinforcement of 570 jobs has been arbitrated for the period from 2022 to 2024: 190 additional jobs each year will increase the offer of reception by reducing the time required for appointments, often too long, and to optimise the time taken for instruction. In the short term, the problem of online dating will be solved by the rise in charge of the project "Digital administration for foreigners in France", launched in 2019. It already covers several procedures, those concerning visitors, students and talented passports, a device that we had the opportunity to present with my colleagues Cédric O and Franck Riester. By the end of 2022, all the steps related to the stay of foreigners in France will benefit from an online procedure for the filing of files. In this context, the Ministry of the Interior has set up a mechanism to ensure that persons who are unable to file their application on-line themselves are provided with a reception and accompaniment to complete this formality. For example, the prefectures and sub-prefectures concerned make digital reception points (PANs) available. The Prefecture of l'Essonne is fully part of all these steps. It thus replaced the online appointment system on 15 November 2021 with a file submission through the "simplified procedures" service for all renewals of residence permits – which refers to the cases you mentioned – but also for applications for exceptional admission to stay. Once their applications are submitted online, all users are offered an appointment. An emergency desk is also open every day and processes between 5 and 10 per cent of the first request files and the digital reception desk for foreigners, which is also open every day, receives 70 users every day to process their applications in the best conditions of dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u41	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u42	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for that clarification. Without efficiency, no country can claim to be a great nation. There seems to be a need for more legislation to empower administrations to respond effectively to emergencies on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u43	Mrs Brigitte Liso has the floor to raise her question, No. 1653, concerning the fight against chemical submissions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u44	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the increase in the world of the night in the case of chemical submissions, a term which, according to the National Agency for the Safety of Medicine and Health Products (ANSM), refers to the administration of psychoactive substances for criminal purposes – rape, paedophilia – or delict – intentional violence, theft – without the knowledge of the victim. This is the practice denounced by the hashtag # BalanceTonBar, launched in mid-October 2021, after the publication of several testimonies on cases of GHB poisoning – gamma-hydroxybutyric acid – during evenings in Brussels. Some women reported sexual assault or rape while going out to bars or discotheques. At the beginning of November, this hashtag began to be used in France to disseminate many accounts of similar facts. I am concerned about the arrival of this phenomenon in France, particularly in my constituency next to Belgium. The regional daily press relayed numerous testimonies of women who were drug addicted without their knowledge, victims of malaise, blackout, vomiting, loss of knowledge during Lille evenings. It should be noted that some testimonies of young men were also collected. Despite the numerous measures put in place since the beginning of the quinquennium, the increasing involvement of associations, the increase in the budgets allocated to the fight against violence against women and the introduction of numerous tools to combat this scourge, there are still too many women victims of threats and violence in France. Several bar and disco managers have put in place preventive devices, such as the installation of airtight lids to close the glasses. However, they have to bear the costs alone. Why not consider a direct or indirect contribution from their suppliers to finance these laudable actions? One might imagine advertising on these devices as is already the case with glasses or subbocks. It is important to unite our efforts to put an end to this scourge. What do you think, Madam Minister, of the solution I have just presented? What other measures do you intend to take to support the managers of bars and discotheques in dealing with these acts? I would also like to know the suggestions made by the Government to strengthen the resources allocated to the care of victims and to ensure the proper conduct of any legal proceedings. You will agree with me that in our country, each and every one must be able to return to his home in complete serenity after a pleasant festive moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u45	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u46	I would like to tell you how sensitive I am to your concerns, as a minister delegated to the Minister of the Interior, as a citizen, but also as a mother. For adolescents and young people, the health crisis has been particularly difficult: they have not been able to meet and socialize as they would have done in normal times. It is our duty to ensure that they enjoy the right to party safely, without risking being victims of the practices you refer to. Since 2017, the Government, with the majority, has taken up the problem of chemical submission. The repressive arsenal has evolved with the law of 3 August 2018 strengthening the fight against sexual and gender-based violence, known as the Schiappa law, which you unanimously adopted: the seriousness of the practice you describe, Madam Member of Parliament, has been legally recognised. The use of this drug by the rapist is now an aggravating circumstance in relation to rape and sexual assault. For such rape, the penalty was increased to 20 years'imprisonment. On the other hand, a person who filmes or broadcasts a scene where someone is seeing someone delivering GHB to a victim – facts that have been reported – is also liable to be charged, either as an accomplice in the administrative offence or as the perpetrator of the offence of dissemination prohibited by article 222-33-3 of the Criminal Code. Also know that the repression for the use and trafficking of GHB fully mobilizes our law enforcement forces, especially in your northern department. In early January, for example, in the context of the arrest of five individuals for drug trafficking, police officers of the Department of Public Security of the North seized 8 litres of GBL – gamma-butyrolactone – a substance used to produce GHB. Within the Parisian agglomeration, the narcotics brigade and the local units are dedicated to investigating the administration of this drug and to the training of professionals in the night sector. In 2021, their seizures – 13848 grams and two vials of GHB – increased from 2020 and 2019, reflecting the priority the Minister of the Interior gave to the fight against drugs. It should be noted that the work of the investigators is complex, as the evidence quickly fades. Unfortunately, products disappear from the body only a few hours after administration, making it difficult to detect their presence. Even if every case of suspicion is now systematically subjected to laboratory analysis, since there is a complaint, the materialisation of the facts remains arduous. This explains why proven cases of chemical submission for criminal and criminal purposes are unfortunately rare. I would add that the testimonies are complicated to collect, given the amnesia effects of GHB. That is why it is important for us to listen to these young girls and boys because, you are right, they are also among the victims. The filing of complaints is crucial and I want to encourage victims and witnesses to visit police stations. As we have engaged with the Minister of the Interior, we will present an anti-GHB plan on which we have worked with Roland Héguy, President of the Union des métiers et des industries de l'hôtel (UMIH), and Thierry Fontaine, President of UMIH Night. It will address, inter alia, youth awareness, professional training and law enforcement alerts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u47	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor to put his question, No. 1660, on draft legislation for Mayotte, addressed to the Minister for Overseas Affairs, whose arrival in the Chamber I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u48	On March 31, 2021, Minister, you proposed to the Mahorais to co-build a bill for accelerated development of the territory. This process brought together more than 1600 people from civil society around thematic workshops led by the Prefect and as of 1 May 2021, more than 680 proposals were presented to you in this context. On December 17, you referred two bills to the departmental council for advice. On 13 January 2022, considering that the proposals of the Mahorese had not been taken into account, the Mahorese unanimously delivered an unfavorable opinion after a consultation organised by its president, which brought together representatives of civil society as well as all the mayors of Mayotte. He then proposed the opening of negotiations to consider taking into account the most legitimate regional concerns. The Regional Economic, Social and Environmental Council (CESER) was also very reserved for these two texts. In an interview given to the local press this morning, you denounce "those who waste time by political calculations" and you declare that "the plan for Mayotte announced for the ten years of the départementization will not see the light of day". I would like to tell you before the national representative that the Mahorais are deeply committed to this law and that they want the process to be implemented without delay. It is important to recall, however, that the departmental council voted against the draft by 26 votes out of 26, transcending the political divisions, that the 12 candidates declared to be candidates for legislative office in the two constituencies of the territory are unfavourable, as are all political parties, including those close to the Government. Therefore, the question asked is not one of politicization of the debate, as you are trying to make it appear, in order to better relieve the Government of its responsibilities. No, after forty years in which successive governments have decided in our place, it is, in accordance with a unanimous request, to ensure that the State finally agrees to listen to us. That is why I sincerely regret the position that you are holding that this project should be taken or left behind and that there will be no discussion until we kneel. I must confess that this is not my idea of the Republican dialogue within our institutions. That is why I suggest a rapprochement with the departmental council, which is fully available to consider an exit solution in which everyone would find themselves: the organization, in the coming month, of a local referendum of voters on the basis of article 72(1), paragraph 2, of the Constitution, concerning the opinion to be given on this bill. Thus, the Mahorais will be able to express their wishes and you will show, by accepting it, your will to overcome political reluctance, if they exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u49	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kamardine, for this very political question – for it did not escape me that the sequence was in Mayotte. You have, moreover, somewhat distorted my remarks, for I said this morning that the implementation of the Mayotte plan announced on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of its departmentalization was continuing; Do not claim the opposite, that is, that it would have been interrupted. You're a departmental advisor, so am I; Ms. Klinkert, present here, chaired the Haut-Rhin departmental council. We all know, therefore, that the mandate of the departmental elected officials is not imperative: they take their responsibilities and vote as they wish. A favourable vote would have meant that the bill for Mayotte was the right one, a qualified vote, that it was not considered sufficient: it would have been possible, if not legitimate – I can understand it. Its consideration in the Assembly and the Senate would then have enriched it by the right of amendment. On the other hand, you have to assume that the unfavorable vote simply blocked a text that everyone was waiting for – it was one of the surprises of the tenth anniversary of the département, when the President of the Republic allowed me to put this bill on track. Given this result, what's going to happen? First of all, we will continue to advance everything we can, particularly in the regulatory field. It is not the approach of the general elections that will put a brake on the Government's ambitions for Mayotte! Mr Kamardine, we have known each other for a long time, you are a political end and you do not lack character; Nevertheless, I repeat, our ambition for Mayotte remains full and complete. That is why we will soon re-align the activity premium, which is an important device; work is under way on the allowance for adults with disabilities (AAH). Once again, everything we can do by order, decree, order, we will do so, including with regard to the integration policies dear to Mrs Klinkert, who is responsible for them. Secondly, concerning the emergencies of a regal nature – the fight against illegal immigration, the fight against crime – certain provisions of the text will be repeated by Gérald Darmanin in the framework of the future bill of orientation and programming of the Ministry of the Interior, which will allow us not to waste any more time. Finally, it is to be hoped that the electoral calendar will not create political disruptions and that the bill for Mayotte will not be taken hostage by the candidates in the general elections or by the representatives of the candidates in the presidential election. I'm not naive: I know politics and I know Mayotte. This morning I heard a close friend of Mrs Le Pen say on the air that the death of the text was a good thing, because it contained nothing: let me tell you that this cynicism is dying.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u51	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to put her question, No 1649, on vocational training.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u52	My question, addressed to the Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration, concerns the public-private link in the offer of vocational training. The Jura industrialists have been telling me for years of their difficulties in recruiting: job offers are rarely filled, while the order books are overflowing and the insertion companies that you have given us the honour of coming to visit, Madam Deputy Minister, are stepping up their efforts. Thanks to the recovery plan, growth is there; In addition, companies have invested in production chains. The training offer must therefore develop in the fields of production mechanics and machining: turning machine, miller, grinding machine, assembler, adjuster-regulator, operator. Faced with this shortage, private initiatives are emerging to train internally: SKF, world leader in mechanical rolling in aeronautics, based in Lons-le-Saunier, has created Jura Innov campus in order to train tomorrow's trades and trades for which there was no training, such as that of grinding machine. The vocational colleges of the region and the Industrial Apprentices Training Centre (CFAI) of the Union of Metallurgy Industries and Trades (UIMM), located in Gevingey, also prepare young people for the trades of the industry: recognized for the quality of their training, they themselves have a campus project – a major centre of industrial training. The France Recovery Plan, committed by the Government, allocates significant sums to the development of skills; The plan for the modernisation of vocational training provides for a quality label, innovative pedagogical projects and pilot training. Therefore, Madam Deputy Minister, my question is: How do you intend to finance the various Jurassian projects and articulate them so that they do not compete with each other?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u53	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u54	The vocational training of young and old workers is a major challenge, which has strongly mobilized the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium. You are right to suggest that it must be based on a good articulation between public and private actors, in order to cover all needs: that is why the law of 5 September 2018 has profoundly reformed vocational training and apprenticeship. We have freed up the supply of apprenticeship training so that new apprenticeship training centres (ERCs) can be set up in the territories to meet the many needs of businesses. This is a success, as the number of apprentices has more than doubled compared to 2017. We have made the individual right to training more accessible, thanks to the personal training account (CPF) and the corresponding application: again, the French have seized massively these possibilities. We have given companies with fewer than fifty employees the means to be accompanied and to finance skills development plans. As for the training of jobseekers, we have invested as never before: the plan for investment in skills, amounting to EUR 15 billion, has been declined in all regions. In this connection, I would like to point out that the coordination of training policies is ensured by the Regional Committees on Employment, Training and Vocational Guidance (CREFOP), where all stakeholders are represented. In order to remedy the cyclical difficulties, the State has mobilised the planned schemes for employees, job seekers, announcing in the autumn of last year an additional EUR 1.4 billion to train in sectors where recruitment is under stress. Finally, concerning the Jura, your territory, Madam Member, where I have already had the pleasure of surrendering, I remain at your complete disposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u55	Mrs Isabelle Rauch spoke of her question, No 1656, concerning vocational training in the French-Luxembourg basin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u56	The sixth intergovernmental conference on strengthening border cooperation between France and Luxembourg met on 19 October in Esch-sur-Alzette. I will not go back to his many successes, which, on the French side, are due above all to the quality of the preparatory work and that of the dialogue between the executive and the national representation. On the other hand, I would like to focus on his shortcomings, or rather, to be positive, on the steps that remain to be taken towards harmonious development on both sides of the border. Among the areas in question are vocational training and the management of labour market needs in both countries, while the areas of cooperation which have rightly been developed are digital and health. Indeed, the labour shortage found everywhere is increasing in this border area where wage and social benefits gaps are large. Bus drivers, construction operators, logistics specialists, boilermakers, specialized educators, animators, maintenance agents are lacking. Major joint efforts would be required in terms of initial and continuing training, but also in terms of alternation, so as not to undress Peter to dress Paul and to allow each market to have the labour necessary for its harmonious development. Madam Minister Delegate, could you tell us about your strategy – joint or shared diagnoses with our Luxembourg neighbours, ways of developing or adapting regulations – to answer this question, which is becoming more and more glaring?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u57	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u58	Mrs Rauch, I fully agree with your analysis of the value of cross-border cooperation in training policy. All companies are faced with ecological and digital transitions; On both sides of our borders, the same challenges arise with regard to the skills of the assets. As an elected member of a territory not far from the border, I am well aware of the problem. This is why Élisabeth Borne and I, as soon as we arrived at the Ministry of Labour, have supported cross-border learning, particularly between France and Germany: we are convinced that it is a relevant model for promoting the occupational integration of young people and for strengthening their sense of belonging to Europe. In order to enable them to carry out their training project, we have facilitated the taking over of apprenticeship contracts by skill operators and asked the Inspectorate-General for Social Affairs (IGAS) for specific work with a view to defining an appropriate legal framework; We have endeavoured to implement without delay the first of its recommendations. In this regard, I welcome our collective mobilization, which I hope will soon enable us, under the 3DS law – on differentiation, decentralisation, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – to create a new title within the Labour Code concerning this learning, which will ensure its legal recognition, which is essential for its development across all our borders. There is a real expectation on the part of young people and businesses; I am pleased, like you and many of your colleagues concerned, that we can answer that question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u59	Mrs Isabelle Rauch has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u60	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister. Indeed, the border territories are eagerly awaiting our commitments in this regard; companies and public employers as well. In my capacity as Regional Advisor of the Great East, I am attentive to the joint commitments of the State and the region, as part of the development of the training and guidance plan contract. In this regard, and in view of the importance of its budgetary commitments, I know – as you have recalled – that the State will show great determination in favour of the tense border areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u61	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor to raise her question, No. 1652, on the inclusion of children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u62	First of all, Madam Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, allow me to commend your commitment to improving the living conditions of the disabled, and in particular your willingness for all children to learn at school. Unfortunately, for a number of children with severe disabilities, this is not possible: they need strengthened, specific support in specialized institutions. But the Iseroese families that I met at my permanence are distraught. They point to the lack of places in these medico-educational institutes (IME): majors are kept there, which prevents the entry of minors and blocks the system. Children are suffering, families too, of course, because, despite their goodwill, they cannot provide them with adequate care. They are not formed there; It's not their role. There is also a shortage of places in a nursing home (FAM) and a specialized foster home (MAS) due to the ageing of disabled people: at the age of 60 or 65 at the most, they leave for EHPAD, where the average age is 87 years. While visiting an establishment in Beaurepaire, the Association familiale de l'Isère pour personnes handicapées (AFIPH) informed me of the withdrawal of a project to create forty places for adults with severe forms of autism! In Isère, although the announcements of the Regional Health Agency (ARS) can reassure us somewhat, they remain insufficient: only ten new places are foreseen in the EMI, in addition for children whose case is complex, because they are in a situation of disability but are also part of the Social Assistance for Children (SAE). Other places will be abolished within five years and the corresponding appropriations for the opening of special education and home care services (SESSAD). So, Madam Secretary of State, would it be possible, on the basis of studies and territorial analysis, to envisage differentiated responses? There is an urgent need to put an end to the embolism of the system and to allow everyone, regardless of their disability, to find a place in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u63	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u64	Madam Member, I am also aware of your commitment to the Iserois territory: we have had the opportunity to make several visits together. That is why I would like to make it clear: the inclusive school is being built, with the cooperation of the medical and social sector, with a view to schooling disabled children up to their needs, following a graduation of the accompaniment. There are possibilities for individual schooling, in a local unit for school inclusion (ULIS), in an outsourced teaching unit, while EMI children come to school with their attendants. However, I hear your request for medical and social facilities. In no way – on this point, I register falsely against you – do we close such institutions: we transform them, together with the associations, to go as close as possible to needs, with support services for children to school and adults to employment. I would also like to reassure you about the situation in Isère: according to the sectors, the rate of occupancy of medical and social establishments is around 60%. This is why we are working on their transformation with the management associations: it is a matter of reorienting the means to meet the different demands of the families. However, I understand that some complex situations require technical platforms and multi-disciplinary teams with these children and families. In Isère it is about 60 EMI places that have been reoriented and not removed, I would like to say: we need professionals and they are funded to create 185 new specialised support places in response to the needs of families. You also refer to a withdrawal of authorization for the creation of places for adult autism. This authorization was issued five years ago. The solutions have not come out. Again, I ask management associations to work faster and harder. We are calling again for expressions of interest. I recall that we have launched the creation of complex autistic residential units. The price instead is very important to take into account these complex needs. We have answers all over the place. This major plan to prevent departures in Belgium mobilises 90 million for France as a whole. It specifically concerns adults with autism, which will finally free up places for children with disabilities. Our method is anything but descending; It's co-built. We have set up Communities 360 to share this territorial diagnosis and to find multi-operator solutions. Everyone has a little bit of a solution. What we need is to work as close as possible to the needs. This is why Bill 3DS – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – simplifies approvals. Indeed, because a child does not necessarily enter a single box, where so far there were only boxes and silos, we want to open up these amenities and remove the age barriers that limit the routes. People with disabilities are getting older, which we must rejoice at, but we must accompany them with dignity where they are used to living without forcing them, precisely, to leave because of their age.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u65	Mrs Monique Limon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u66	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Your answers will allow me to return to the families and associations that had asked me, to reassure them and start, with them and with the people responsible, the work of reflection necessary to carry out these creations of places that are so much needed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u67	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to raise her question, No. 1669, concerning the care of disabled children in Ille-et-Vilaine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u68	I would like to warn you, Madam Secretary of State for Disabled Persons, about the shortcomings in terms of the medical and educational response for children with disabilities in Ille-et-Vilaine. This territory is marked by a difficulty in meeting the needs identified and notified by the Committee on the Rights and Autonomy of Persons with Disabilities (CDAPH) in specialised institutions, leaving families without a suitable solution or even without a solution at all. This is due to two main reasons, the first being a structural deficit in the number of places in specialised structures. The rate of equipment confirms this: there are 5.8 places per 1000 inhabitants in establishments for disabled children under 20 years of age, compared with 6.5 places in the rest of metropolitan France. The second reason is the increase in the demand for care of the children concerned in the socio-educational environment, in connection with the population growth of the territory, which, according to INSEE, has more than 1.1 million inhabitants. The momentum should continue, which will only aggravate an already tense situation. In 2019, for example, 748 EMI-oriented young people – medical-educational institutes – were not admitted, 946 were waiting for SESSAD – special education and home care services – and 503 young people oriented to educational and educational therapeutic institutes (ITEP) were without a medical-social response. While efforts to include children with disabilities in ordinary settings, with the help of accompanying students with disabilities (AESH), are welcome, this is not necessarily the right solution to ensure the well-being of children who are oriented, on an ad hoc or permanent basis, towards the medical and educational sector. We must have the clarity to recognize it and this is the responsibility of the State. In view of this situation, what measures does the Government intend to take to increase the number of places in specialized facilities for these children with disabilities? This is a major challenge in the fight against inequality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u69	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u70	Madam Member, you are referring to the accompaniment of children with disabilities. As you know, the Government is particularly invested in making the Republic school a fully inclusive school. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have been working to secure the courses of students with disabilities. First of all, we deployed mobile school support teams, working in pairs – an educator, a psychologist according to the means and staff of possible resources in the territory. The aim of these schemes is to promote the continuity of the student's journey by providing medical and social support to the teaching teams. These mobile teams, organized in a departmental network, are a valuable resource to support teachers and, in many cases, to enable children with disabilities to continue their schooling in school. In the fall of 2021, 166 mobile teams were mobilized to mesh the response in the territory and we will of course continue their deployment. At the same time, we continue to strengthen the means so that everyone can find a solution. This has led to the deployment of new medico-social solutions: at the national level, an increase of 2600 places in the SESSADs and the creation of 89 autistic classes that allowed 350 additional children to attend school last September, with strong medico-social support. In the Ille-et-Vilaine department, which is experiencing significant population growth, the multi-year contracts have created 261 day-care places in the ordinary environment through the conversion of 155 boarding places or semi-boarding places, resulting in a net gain of 106 places for children. The new measures of 2020 and 2021 have reflected a commitment of the Regional Health Agency (RHA) to the supply of children, with a net increase of 163 places for children, plus 153 places of delivery in the ordinary environment created under the multi-year contracts of objectives and means, the CPOM, since we work with the managing bodies. A call for regional interest in innovative respite solutions for people with disabilities financed eight different projects for the period 2021-2023 in Ille-et-Vilaine. The amount committed for these three years is EUR 1530502. These are the actions we are taking to respond to the situations you are talking about, with a dual objective: school for all and a response tailored to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u71	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u72	I do not dispute it, Madam Secretary of State: a lot is done, but there is a real urgency, and I know that you are sensitive to it as many people in this House. Behind these situations, there are often women who are forced to ignore their careers in order to care for their children. I think we owe them something, too. I had already asked a written question on this subject at the very beginning of my term of office and I am counting on you to do what is necessary as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u73	Mr Philippe Meyer, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1658, on energy tariffs and local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u74	My question is for the Minister of Ecological Transition. In view of the exceptional rise in energy prices, on 30 September the Prime Minister announced the setting up of a tariff shield to block price increases, linked in particular to the procrastination of energy policy in recent years, in particular to the disastrous decision to close the Fessenheim power plant. We can only welcome this necessary measure, which is somewhat protective of our fellow citizens whose purchasing power is already highly tested. Let me remind you that 12 million of them cannot already warm up as they wish. Some are obliged to reduce their heating to a strict minimum, not to mention those who cannot already pay their bills. Like private individuals, economic actors and local and regional authorities, these increases are taking a heavy toll on their budgets, even though they are already suffering from rising fuel prices. For example, the municipality of Marlenheim in the Lower Rhine, in my constituency, which has 4,300 inhabitants and whose gas supply market was due to expire on 31 December, has been offered a tariff increase of more than 200 per cent in the coming years, bringing its estimated annual invoice from 55000 euros to more than 165000 euros. I would add that only one economic operator has dared to respond to the public market as the energy markets are unstable. Our communities are already severely affected by the health crisis. However, these energy expenditure are essential for the proper functioning of public services, our schools, childcare facilities, cultural, sports and even simply our town halls. It therefore seems essential to extend the regulation of energy prices to the latter and not to abandon our local areas and public services in the face of this exceptional situation. I should be grateful if you would inform me of any steps that the Government may wish to take in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u75	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u76	Mr President, my colleague Barbara Pompili, Minister for Ecological Transition, who cannot be present, has asked me to answer you. The financial resources mobilized by the State in the face of the energy price crisis are considerable. Measures to mitigate the increase in electricity prices decided by the Government – tax cuts, tariff shields, increase in the volume of ARENH, regulated access to historic nuclear electricity – also benefit local authorities. As of February 1, 2022, the 95% reduction in the electricity tax will have a very significant impact on the electricity tariffs of the communities, which now support the maximum tax rate. This tax reduction for all consumers is a particularly important effort of the State. It represents 8 billion euros in 2022. The increase in the volume of ARENH, from 100 to 120 terawatt hours, will benefit all consumers: households, businesses and communities. Small communities, which employ fewer than ten agents and generate less than 2 million revenues, are eligible for regulated energy sales tariffs – TRV – and can benefit from the tariff shield and their tariffs will be increased by only 4%. Finally, the decrease in taxation and the increase in the volume of the ARENH will limit the possible catch-up on 2023 of the tariff freeze to 4%. Communities benefit from the same government support measures as all consumers with comparable consumption patterns. The State also acts to reduce long-term community bills by encouraging energy savings. The community park accounts for 70% of the energy value of metropolitan municipalities. This represents 5% of the total operating budget of municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants, including payroll. Many aids for energy renewal have been put in place, both in engineering and in the form of financial assistance. These aids are significant levers, recently reinforced by the creation of the heating boost for tertiary buildings, the strengthening of animation and counselling and the recovery plan. I hope, honourable Member, that I have responded to your concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u77	Mr Philippe Meyer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u78	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. We look to the Government to be as close as possible in the coming months to the legitimate concerns of communities regarding the renewal of their contracts and to ensure that they are not penalized in this particularly difficult situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u79	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi, to put his question, No. 1655, concerning the fire at the Recycling Concept 13 sorting plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u80	I would like, Mr. Chairman, to draw the attention of the Ministry of Environmental Transition to the origin and consequences of the fire that ravaged the Recyclage Concept 13 sorting plant in Saint-Chamas. First of all, let me welcome the unwavering action and determination of Didier Khelfa, mayor of the commune, the services of the metropolis, the associations, the services of the state – especially the sub-prefect of Istres – and our firefighters who are constantly fighting the flames. My intervention is not aimed at blaming a particular actor, but at acting to ensure that such events do not happen again. The fire has caused, in addition to material damage, considerable air pollution, and, as we all understand, it is causing anger and anxiety. A demand is raised, shared by all: "Never again! For a month now, the smoke has escaped from this huge pile of waste. It has been a month since the inhabitants of Saint-Chamas, a beautiful commune on the edge of the pond of Berre, breathe air whose quality is comparable to that of Beijing. However, the mayor of the municipality had pointed out to the competent authorities the growing danger caused by the lack of compliance with storage volume standards, which had led to a warning. Indeed, 30,000 cubic metres of waste were stored on this site, which was not allowed to store more than 1000. There were no retention ponds and no fire stations at this site. As eight Bouches-du-Rhône sites show the same irregularities, let us put an end to the declaratory regime for the creation of a classified facility for the protection of the environment; require prior authorisation, with competence and installation criteria. Finally, let us establish a regular control of the volume of storage which could lead to administrative closures when numerous irregularities are detected, as was the case at the Saint-Chamas site. While everyone rightly repeats: "Never again! What do you think of these proposals? Can we hope to find a calm situation in the coming days?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u81	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u82	You are asking Mrs Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, about the follow-up to be given, in terms of the regulatory framework for industrial waste sorting centres, after the fire at the Saint-Chamas site. She couldn't be there, so she asked me to answer you. First of all, we would like to commend the mayor, the metropolis and the state services for their management of the fire and their great reactivity, in order to limit its health and environmental consequences. In particular, we thank the fire and rescue services (SDIS), which have been working on the site since 26 December. The Government is determined to have all the light on the origin of the fire and is prepared to draw all the necessary consequences so that similar events do not occur. The site in question was registered in the prefecture under the declaratory regime of a waste sorting, transit and grouping operation under the classification of environmental protection facilities (ICPE). In this context, it is subject to a maximum threshold of 1000 cubic metres of waste stored. Following the report of the inspection of the classified facilities which carried out a monitoring visit in early September, the Regional Prefect issued a notice on 14 December to the company Recycling Concept 13 to evacuate the excess volume and to cease, under penalty, to bring waste to this site. The fire broke out 12 days later and the investigation will have to determine its origin. Removing the reporting regime poses a risk for small storage sites that wild deposits will increase, as operators of such sites do not meet the technical and financial capacity criteria verified under the authorisation regime. On the other hand, it is necessary to identify and act more quickly on declared facilities whose storage capacity is exceeded. Beyond the increased search for such sites as the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing (DREAL) of the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region has initiated, administrative procedures must be as rapid as possible. In addition, with a view to strengthening preventive measures, the Government had decided to initiate the revision of the requirements for waste treatment facilities and had referred the general inspections of the environmental and industrial ministries on the accidentology of such structures to the Government, requesting them to make proposals to amend the law of classified installations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u83	Mr Jean-Marc Zulesi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u84	Thank you for these answers. However, it is necessary to go further so that such events do not happen again. I invite a minister to come to Saint-Chamas in the coming weeks – Barbara Pompili, Bérangère Abba or yourself if the heart tells you – to see the extent of the damage on the banks of the pond of Berre.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u85	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor to put his question, No. 1668, concerning the MaPrimeRenov' device.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u86	My question, addressed to Ms. Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, concerns the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, which the Government launched two years ago to provide financial assistance to households engaged in the thermal renovation of their homes. Initially reserved for the most modest households, MaPrimeRénov'has been open to all owners for a year. This mechanism has found its public, since the Government, with a target of 800,000 applications, has planned to devote to it in the draft finance law for 2022 an envelope of 2 billion euros. However, a large number of Ardéchois have informed me of very serious delays in the payment of aid. These can be up to six months or even a year, while the State announces a 15-day processing period, when a file is complete. In addition, the MaPrimeRenov' website has many malfunctions and does not always record data entered by applicants. Advisors are difficult to reach and sometimes unable to provide any information on the progress of the files. Discontent is not limited to the Ardèche and it is an oil stain in France: a Facebook group entitled "MaPrimeRénov": the fighter's journey! This brings together 17,000 members; a petition has already collected more than 12,000 signatures and network advisors DO – facilitate, accompany and inform about energy renewal – who guide individuals in their efforts estimate that 20% of files are facing serious problems. Some of the delays in the disbursements considerably degrade the financial situation of households already weakened by the crisis and which have begun their work in the hope of such aid. Some families even have to take credit to alleviate cash flow problems. Delays also affect artisans who encounter difficulties in getting paid for their services. What measures are envisaged in order to put an end to these disorders and to reduce the delays in the payment of aid?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u87	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u88	Since its launch in 2020, the success of the MaPrimeRenov' device has been unquestionable. In 2021, more than 760,000 cases were filed and 660,000 were committed, amounting to more than 2 billion euros. The French are at the rendezvous of the energy renovation and we can be proud of it. In 2021, 94% of the files filed were completed within 15 working days of the commitment. However, some files require exchanges because they are not complete or have errors: for them, the decision is rendered on average within 30 working days, integrating the return time of households with the solicitations. This is now less than half of the commitment files. In 2021, 72 per cent of the files submitted for payment were processed in less than 15 days, taking into account the on-the-spot checks necessary to combat fraud on certain files. In addition, the satisfaction surveys conducted by Ipsos are unquestionably: 89% of beneficiaries were satisfied with MaPrimeRenov' and 84% were satisfied with the deadlines announced. However, computer bugs and the very high demand for this device may have resulted in delays in the processing of some so-called difficult cases. The Minister of Ecological Transition is particularly attentive to this issue and has asked the National Habitat Agency (ANAH) to release the files that have been on hold for too long as soon as possible. Thus, 3000 cases in difficulty were identified in October and were fully resolved in mid-January 2022 thanks to a dedicated team. The department also continues to act to deal as quickly as possible with new cases in difficulty when they are reported. I recall that these represented only 0.5% of the MaPrimeRenov' files filed in 2021. The Government is therefore acting decisively and tirelessly to carry out its ambitious policy of energy renovation of buildings.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u89	Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u90	I thank you for the accuracy of your figures, although I am sure that they reflect the reality faced by applicants on the ground. The rate of unsatisfied persons must exceed 16% by relying on the statements of those waiting for the resolution of their case and on the extent of their mobilization; I understand, however, your intention to reduce this figure as much as possible. It would be a pity for the Government to be a victim of the success of its mechanism, which I also welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u91	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor to put his question, No. 1650, on the contribution on road transport in the Far East.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u92	For several months, many Mosellan elected officials and economic actors have been concerned about the potential saturation of the A31. Indeed, the European Community of Alsace (CEA) has been authorised to set up an eco-contribution on the A35, in order to limit massive freight transport carry-overs on this European corridor, particularly from northern Europe and Germany. The A31, another attractive European corridor and true backbone of my constituency, is likely to suffer the consequences: there are more than 100,000 vehicles per day at the Hauconcourt Cross, with peaks that can rise to more than 200000 on certain days. It is also planned to decongest this saturated axis, making the A31 bis. However, be careful not to saturate it further before this achievement, which is considered a priority by the Infrastructure Guidance Board (IOC). On its own, the future Alsatian ecotax may not be such as to justify massive deportation, but if one adds a form of dumping to the pump through a passage to Luxembourg, the cocktail can be explosive and the economic choices of the major European carriers, without appeal. We have legislated to allow for eco-contribution on this axis by means of the Act of 22 August 2021 on combating climate change and strengthening resilience to its effects, or article 7 of the 3DS bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, which stipulates that the competence to develop and manage national roads and unlicensed motorways may be entrusted, on an experimental basis, to the voluntary regions. Nevertheless, this process will take a long time, as it implies that the provisions are promulgated and implemented, and that the Greater East region, where appropriate, seizes this jurisdiction. Does the Government intend to experiment with eco-contributions in the Greater East region in order to speed up this possible acquisition of competence? More generally, what is its strategy to avoid the risk of embolism of the A31 motorway?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u93	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u94	As you have pointed out, article 137 of the so-called climate and resilience law empowers the Government to take by order any measure enabling, under certain conditions, the voluntary regions which will manage and operate roads of the national road network made available to them, to establish specific contributions based on the traffic of road transport vehicles of goods using such roads. The Greater East Region will therefore be able, if it so wishes, to take full advantage of this jurisdiction offered by the Ordinance. The national road network that I have just mentioned will be made available under the conditions set out in clause 7 of Bill 3DS, which led yesterday to an agreement in a Joint Joint Committee. The creation of the EAC is the result of a long-standing dialogue, which brought together the State and local elected representatives in a concerted effort to illustrate the policy of territorial differentiation advocated by the Government throughout this legislature. This pragmatic approach was reflected in the unanimous adoption in this House last week of the draft law on the ratification of ECA's competence orders. With regard to the Lorrain furrow, all impact assessments carried out at the time of the review of the draft law on ECA competencies in 2019 have reversed the risk of postponement. I understand that the process seems to you long, but it is the price of consultation and respect for the territories in order to introduce appropriate measures that they will fully benefit from.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u95	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor to put his question, No. 1662, on national road 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u96	At the beginning of the year, the Prefect of the Greater East Region and the President of the Regional Council sent you a letter, Mr. Deputy Minister, identifying the projects to be carried out with priority in the field of transport infrastructure, which will have to be taken into account in the next contract of the State-Region Plan (CPER) in the field of mobility. Among these is the continuation of the work on the RN4, with the setting up of two lanes of the section between Saint-Georges and Gogney, with a firm commitment to spend 70 million euros on it at parity with the State. The local authorities of Meurthe-et-Moselle, Moselle and the Grand-Est region have been calling for this work for several years, in the wake of those carried out between Heming and Saint-Georges. This project is also at the heart of the concerns expressed by the participants in the Grenelle des mobilités in Lorraine. With the A4 motorway, RN4 is the main east-west communications road in the Great East. The Gogney-Saint-Georges section, about 8 kilometres long, which provides the junction between the Meurthe-et-Moselle and the Moselle, represents the last part remaining to be developed on the territory of Lorrain between Nancy and Phalsbourg. At this point, the RN4 supports traffic of the order of 10,000 vehicles per day on average in both directions, of which 30% are heavy goods vehicles, making it a particularly structuring road for the development of this geographical area but also very accidental. Ms Élisabeth Borne stated in 2018 that "the inclusion of this work in the State-region plan contract was an absolute necessity for the coming weeks and months." Since then, unfortunately, nothing has moved: first, the State funding necessary to carry out the project has not been committed; Secondly, the dimensioning of the compensation measures for wetlands was revised upwards in 2019 and 12 zones are now involved, resulting in a stacking of additional environmental studies delaying work, while the new route is essentially based on the existing one; Third, the environmental aspect is all the more complex as it requires the agreement of farmers on the compensation provided for the acquisition of agricultural land. However, the upward revision of these, linked to the largely subjective adjustment coefficients, further complicates these negotiations. It is essential that the State revert to reasonable requirements that take into account the initial state of the environment in 2006, mainly focused on the conversion of wasteland. In February 2020, we had alerted you, together with the region and many local elected representatives, about the importance of completing the two-track roll-out of the RN4, stressing an urgent economic, security and environmental emergency: we were told that the environmental decrees should be ended 2022, which should allow a start to the preparatory work in 2023 after the financing of the construction phase had been contracted. However, to date, the absence of a specific road component in the CPER suggests that nothing is being done either during the 2023-2027 period and that work cannot begin until 2028. This situation is incomprehensible, aberrant and in contradiction to all the ministry's replies to the letters of the elected representatives or to the questions put to it on the subject, the most recent being by my colleague Thibault Bazin, who is also very invested in this matter. It is well known that administrative constraints could be overcome as soon as possible. The State must fulfil its initial commitment to provide orders as early as this year and give assurances on funding so that preparatory work can start next year. Our territories making this project a priority, I thank you for meeting the expectations of the Lorrains and their elected, mobilized and united, by making a firm commitment to the launch of this long-awaited work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u97	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u98	You draw my attention to the two-way development project of the RN4 between Gogney and Saint-Georges, which, after the commissioning of the section between Saint-Georges and Héming in 2020, remains the last two-way section on the route between Nancy and Phalsbourg. I am aware of the security problems posed by this section; The State and local authorities are fully mobilized to take this project forward. Based on the results of studies launched in 2015, a consultation was organised with the elected representatives. In 2018, it resulted in the choice of an optimised preferred variant, the route of which, as close as possible to the current RN4, will reduce the cost of the RN4 and its environmental impacts. A ministerial decision was taken accordingly, on 4 July 2018, authorizing the continuation of studies on the project; Then a project file was created in 2021. At the same time, the update of the impact assessment to define the specific compensatory measures was launched, in order to obtain environmental authorizations in 2023. I confirm to you that the setting up of two lanes of the RN4 between Gogney and Saint-Georges is the subject of a very careful examination, as part of the ongoing discussions on the road developments to be included in the next contract 2023-2027 – knowing that the mobility component of the 2015-2020 State-Region Plan contracts was extended until 2022. The results of this identification will be confronted with the mobilised financial scoping, on the basis of the work carried out by the IOC, before integration into the CPER 2021-2027 – which will thus be complemented by a mobility component for the period 2023-2027.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u99	Mr Fabien Di Filippo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u100	[[Mr. Thibault Bazin applauds]] Thank you for your explanation, Minister Delegate. It is particularly important that we return to credible compensatory measures and that environmental studies be completed this year. The calendar allows it. Since you wish to include the project in the CPER 2023-2027 – you have committed yourself to it – the work could start by the end of 2023 at the latest: it is fundamental.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u101	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to put her question, No. 1644, on energy renewal in the neighbourhoods of the city's policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u102	"Renovations have been requested for several years; Now that they do, it's up to us to pay them. It's not normal! So was Souhila, who, in November 2021, travelled, accompanied by a dozen other inhabitants and inhabitants of the Essarts, a district of Echirolles, to the headquarters of the social landlord, the Dauphinoise Society for Habitat (SDH). On their numerous signs, we read: "Dignity for the Essarts", "Red Cardoon the SDH", "Respect the inhabitants", or "Renovation without increase". Les Essarts, one of the poorest neighbourhoods in the Grenoblais agglomeration, has been included in what the city describes as "an ambitious urban but also social and environmental renewal project". However, the social dimension is undermined by the choice of the HRS to charge residents for the energy renovations of their homes, by increasing rents that are already difficult to pay. The tenants have not been consulted and face a wall. They testify: "The lack of communication between decision-makers and decision-makers on developments in the neighbourhood prevents any consideration of our needs and respect for our lives. The result of all this is our psychological, social and economic danger. We feel under house arrest, without taking care of the consequences. » This local conflict more broadly illustrates one of the failures of the city's policy, which was supposed to "restore republican equality and improve the living conditions of the inhabitants" of the underprivileged neighbourhoods. Forty years after its launch, the record is more than mixed: these neighbourhoods are more fragile than ever, their attractiveness has improved little and inequalities persist. These include the prevalence of poor housing: 22 per cent of households live in overcrowded housing, and one fifth of households experience poor isolation and increased energy consumption – which increases their difficulty in paying rent and expenses. As a major player in city politics, the state must guarantee the right – unfortunately damaged – to decent housing and reduce inequalities. What solutions do you intend to bring to the inhabitants of the Essarts and the many other areas of the city's politics, who are suffering a double penalty: forced to live in a degraded habitat, they have to bear individually the cost of renovations, especially energy, even though they are among the most precarious?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u103	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u104	The residents of the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy (QPV) obviously benefit from the energy renovation policy deployed by the Government. A majority of them live in social housing. In 2021, as part of the France Recovery Plan, a specific envelope financed heavy renovations coupled with energy renovations: 6,489 housing units were involved in QPVs, or more than 17% of rehabilitated housing units in France, for a construction budget of 321 million euros. In addition, the National Agency for Urban Renewal (ANRU) intervenes massively in the 450 priority areas eligible for the new National Urban Renewal Programme (NPNRU): almost 139000 social housing units are rehabilitated within this framework. For their part, owners of a dwelling in the private park of a QPV are eligible for all energy renovation aid. The Government has reformed the latter, so that they are targeted primarily at modest households – in contrast to the energy transition tax credit (ISCED), which mostly benefited affluent households. In 2021, MaPrimeRénov' was paid to more than 8600 households residing in a QPV and who applied for this assistance, for an average financing rate of 40% – compared to an average of 30% nationally. In addition, the MaPrimeRénov' Sérénité system helps modest and very modest owner-occupiers to finance ambitious renovations. In 2021, 760 households residing in a QPV benefited, for a financing rate of about 60%. Finally, the National Housing Agency (ANAH) funds the unions of co-owners to carry out works of heritage and energy renovation: since 2018, 15261 housing units of the QPV have received work grants for this purpose, for 67 million euros of funds mobilised.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u105	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u106	You have not answered the problem that the inhabitants of the Essarts, like many others, encounter. While energy renovation should be taken over collectively, its cost is borne by vulnerable and vulnerable households, which already have difficulty paying their rent. We are talking here not about individual renovations carried out by owners, or even tenants, but about collective renovations. How can we ensure the well-being of these families in their homes, in a dynamic energy transition, without undermining their already fragile economic status? The stakes are fundamental, because, while energy forklift is essential, it must not be on the backs of the most vulnerable. The question is indeed political: the mobilization of yellow vests has shown how unacceptable an energy transition policy against the people, especially against the most precarious inhabitants, was. You have to answer that. How can we ensure that these families benefit from decent housing, without compromising their economic security?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u107	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor to put his question, No. 1654, on hemochromatosis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u108	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the management of patients with haemochromatosis, the first genetic disease in France: they represent 45% of the people affected by the main genetic diseases. Hemochromatosis evolves insidiously. If it is not treated, it can affect various organs, causing cirrhosis, liver cancer or heart failure, resulting from disabilities or even premature deaths – there are 2500 per year in France. One in 200 people is at risk of being affected by this serious disease, but if a blood test is carried out within 20-35 years to measure serum ferritin and transferrin saturation coefficient, in order to diagnose a possible mutation of the HFE gene, treatment avoids serious disorders. Bleeding is the only effective treatment for hemochromatosis. However, the French Blood Establishment's health centres no longer receive patients for therapeutic bleeding. Only those eligible for the donation can continue to visit the fixed sites of the EFS – mobile collection is not possible. Despite the rules on waste from infectious risk-care activities (DASRI), and the recommendations of the regional health agencies (ARS), the destruction of blood waste collected during home bleeds poses a real problem for caregivers. What does the Government intend to do to help patients with haemochromatosis perform their bleeding in good conditions, as close to home as possible? Do you intend to help home bleeders manage waste disposal?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u109	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u110	You call my attention to the difficulties of patients with haemochromatosis in performing their bleeding in good conditions, as close to home as possible, even at home. Hemochromatosis is treated by bleeding performed mainly in health facilities, in health centres or by state graduates in the outpatient sector. In 2017, we conducted an experiment in Île-de-France to strengthen the offer of care and to enhance these bleeding in blood donations. As the results were positive, the valorisation of the blood donor was included in the regulatory framework by the decree of 18 December 2018 laying down the criteria for the selection of blood donors. Patients should meet donor selection criteria and submit a valid medical prescription. Blood donations remain at fixed collection sites at the French Blood Establishment and the Army Blood Transfusion Centre. Patients can still bleed in EFS facilities, even if they do not qualify as a health centre. Don-Saignee thus enriches the provision of care and is an alternative – not exclusive – to those already existing. I'm going to waste management. Flexible pockets and transparent rigid vials used in home bleeds pose an infectious risk and should be disposed of in a specific manner. It is the responsibility of the professional who carries out the act to eliminate them, as with other DASRIs, whether the bleeding is done at home, in the office or in the health centre. The recommendations made by the High Health Authority in July 2005 concerning the management of HFE-related haemochromatosis specify that the blood pockets must be removed by the nurse who performed the bleeding, who must bring them by his own means to the nearest treatment centre or to a care facility authorised to carry out bleeding, and who agrees to dispose of such waste. In the current health context, which also affects blood donations, the possibility of using blood bags taken from home for subsequent transfusion is excluded: it is reserved for blood donations made in institutions, in accordance with a protocol to avoid infectious risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u111	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u112	Thank you for that clarification, Madam Deputy Minister. The main concern of patients is the management of waste from home bleeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u113	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor to raise her question, No. 1667, concerning the situation of midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u114	I want to make the voice of a profession whose distress is profound, whose daily action remains unknown and often invisible, whose status only evolves at the margin, crisis after crisis, and whose missions and skills escape a comprehensive and coherent vision of health: I mean the midwifery profession. In support of my remarks, I would like to share with you the message sent to me by a representative of the midwives of the Le Mans Hospital: "At present, we do not have the normal working force, and we must provide additional guards every week or work understaffed. This situation uses the remaining professionals. Recruitment is no longer done in hospitals or clinics, and we see no positive outlook in the coming months. You will easily understand that the state of mind is now morose, with a sense of abandonment or even contempt. The click we were waiting for did not take place, and we are witnessing, powerless, the collapse of our specialty. » In November, after an open letter from Anne-Marie Curat, President of the National Council of the Order of Midwives, and after a considerable mobilization of the latter, the Government announced a revalorisation of 500 euros net per month, which actually includes the 183 euros already granted at the time of the Segur of Health, as well as 240 euros of premiums that are not included in the calculation of retirement. The measure, if it goes in the right direction, will not suffice to restore the attractiveness of the profession; It also excludes part of the staff – I am thinking in particular of the territorial midwives. While the situation in the hospital is already precarious, this improvement does not stop the deterioration of working conditions or the decrease in the number of midwives in the services. The negotiations conducted in 2021 with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health did not restore a serene working environment. These problems feed the profound ill-being of midwives, more and more of whom leave hospital services to establish themselves as a liberal – or even simply leave this profession of bonding, which is exercised by vocation. In Sarthe, institutions are facing an increased phenomenon of job exhaustion, including among young caregivers, whose vocation is gradually becoming disillusioned. Madam Deputy Minister, you cannot brandish the results of the Ségur de la santé in all circumstances to sweep away the many claims that you have not heard. Do you intend to increase the number of midwives – particularly in the Sarthe –, improve their working conditions in the hospital, and remedy the catastrophic situation of the provision of obstetric and gynaecological care, particularly in my department?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u115	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u116	The Government is equally committed to the primary role of midwives. Your question therefore allows me to inform the national representation that the texts that reflect the career and salary adjustments of midwives in the public service agreement are being prepared before a final agreement is reached. As provided for in the agreement, the premium will be revalued from February 2022 and the grids will be revalued from March 2022. These revalorisations are in addition to the index salary supplements of 183 euros net monthly already paid since September to achieve a revalorisation of about 500 euros net monthly per midwife hospital. This is a reality, and I believe that no one can minimize what 500 additional euros represent on a payroll. On the other hand, the Ségur de la santé – which I do not hold, but which I recall – includes measures to improve working conditions in the hospital public service, where we can act. Axis 2 of the agreement is financed with EUR 1 billion mobilised by 2023 to create 15,000 posts – of course, from all sectors; to promote collective engagement, with a premium for all caregivers; reorganisations on working time; and allow the resorption of precarious employment. Our mobilization is complete to finalize the measures that contribute to the recognition due to the professionals by reaffirming the place of the latter in the hospital. An instruction is being prepared to reaffirm the position of midwives in the hospital as medical personnel and their attachment to the medical affairs directorates. In addition, access to continuing training is being strengthened. The role and position of the Maieutical Coordinators, both vis-à-vis health managers and the Head of the Department or Head of the Maternity Centre, are reaffirmed and, more broadly, the role of midwives in governance is reaffirmed. I would also point out that the Government is acting for midwives beyond the door of hospitals by valuing and expanding skills through the development of birth homes, the creation of new skills with the Act of 26 April 2021 aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, known as the Rist Act, or the experimentation of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy (IVG) instrumental in health facilities. As you can see, we are mobilizing all the levers at our disposal to recognize the essential place of midwives for the health of French women and of all those who are born every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u117	Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u118	There is indeed a question of financial upgrading, but there is an urgent need to address the problems of working conditions and staff shortages. I'm thinking about my Sarthe department, about which I was questioning you. The burn-out progresses; There is therefore an urgent need to take into account the malaise and ill-being of midwives.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u119	The next speaker is Mr Michel Castellani, to put his question, No. 1664, concerning the hospital centre in Bastia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u120	Madam Minister-in-Charge, I would like to draw your attention to the modalities for accompanying the State in the project to recast the Bastia hospital. To my previous questions as well as those of the mayor on this fundamental subject for the city and, more broadly, for the whole of Corsica, the Government had initially replied that a multidisciplinary mission would be set up to assess the needs of the new hospital. Subsequently, the Government reiterated that the imminent appointment of experts would enable the follow-up of this dossier, particularly within the framework of the National Council for Health Investment (CNIS), which was responsible for monitoring hospital records. Beyond the substantial financial announcements, the delay in the establishment of the multidisciplinary mission hampers the project of re-founding the Bastia hospital centre. However, the State's commitment is necessary to respond urgently to the care needs of the island's population. It should be recalled that the Bastia Hospital covers a basin representing 60% of the population of Corsica and that the previous architectural diagnosis of 2018 confirmed the numerous structural limits of the building. Whether it is for an in situ re-foundation or for construction on a new site, the delay in the appointment of the multidisciplinary mission and in the appointment of experts is a hindrance to the development of the hospital, observes the visibility of all staff – whose dedication allows the current structure to carry out its fundamental tasks – and results in additional costs for its development. Therefore, I ask you again: when will the announced appointment of experts take place and with what specific objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u121	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u122	I understand the whole expectation – which I share – of the second phase of the restructuring of the Bastia hospital. As part of the investments planned by the Ségur de la santé, we hope that project promoters will be supported and, for the most complex projects, supported by expert resources, often rare, to support them. I inform you that the multidisciplinary mission of expertise that you mentioned will start its work in the first quarter of 2022 – we are on 1 February, you see that there is not a great delay – as soon as the new governance is put in place, in order to ensure that this work can start under the best possible conditions. The objectives of this mission may evolve according to the progress of the various components of the project – medical, financial, heritage or the one concerning caregivers. The experts will be primarily responsible for ensuring that the project is realistic, in line with territorial needs and realities, and that it builds on local actors, that it articulates projects and activities of each other, within the framework of a coherent, controlled and efficient offer. However, the Bastia Hospital has launched a programme to modernize its main site with a first tranche of work already carried out for the operating unit, cancerology and safety. The institution subsequently carried out an architectural diagnosis and formalization of the project by assessing the current functioning of human resources. This is where constraints have arisen; they require support to ensure that the means will meet the needs in a sustainable manner. Nevertheless, without waiting for this mission, the renovation of the hospital centre is a priority and, before this mission is carried out, the Regional Health Agency (RHA) provides financial support to certain more urgent projects. I am thinking of air conditioning, the renovation of the EHPAD and the long-term care unit (USLD) for almost 670000 euros, the upgrading of the helipad for more than 115000 euros, the transitional restructuring of the emergency reception service, or the renewal of the equipment for 1.6 million euros. We financed the upgrading and upgrading of traffic – including the psychiatry service – for 500,000 euros. Paediatrics, as well as the resuscitation and critical care service, benefit from an investment of €3 million for the upgrading and extension of the number of beds. We therefore act without waiting for the findings of the mission which must be made public before the end of the first quarter of 2022 to ensure the sustainability of the project in relation to the needs expressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u123	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u124	Madam Minister Delegate, thank you for your answer. The intervention I am doing today is the ninth one for the Bastia hospital. My goal is simple: to make the Government aware of the need to provide Bastia with a new hospital. Elements were provided by myself, by the supervisory board, by the municipality, by the staff. This hospital covers 60% of the population of Corsica; He is obviously obsolete and his staff compensates for this obsolescence with great sacrifice. Madam Deputy Minister, you have the power to solve the problem, you need to mobilise the CNIS, which will give you a clear way forward. I assure you that this claim is not a whim, but a clear and important need.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u125	Mr Michel Castellani, speaking on question No 1665 by Mr Paul Molac, on the emergency patient package.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u126	Reached by the covid -19, our colleague Paul Molac unfortunately cannot be present with us today; So I'm gonna make his voice ring. Mr. Molac wished to question the Government on the implementation of the tariff reform in hospital emergency services. Since 1 January 2022, each individual admitted to a hospital emergency department must pay an emergency patient package (EPF) in the amount of EUR 19.61 if his/her visit is not followed by hospitalisation, the amount of which he/she may request ex post reimbursement from his/her mutual. This new measure is not without question, especially in rural areas where the shortage of general practitioners is becoming increasingly acute. Indeed, the use of emergencies may prove to be the only solution for millions of French people who, as a result of medical desertification, are deprived of a doctor. It is therefore a double penalty for people living in rural areas who are already statistically more likely to be at health risk by giving up care and, by implication, suffer from inequalities in life expectancy as a result of greater difficulty in accessing care. In addition, this system obliges many patients to advance costs, even though they are sometimes financially fragile. It therefore penalizes the most precarious patients, especially those who can arrive at the emergency room without payment, without social security coverage or without administrative papers. It is clear, however, that without a thorough reform of the health system, without strong measures to combat medical deserts, this package will in no way solve the congestion of hospital emergencies: a single package or not, patients will continue to go to emergencies in the absence of an alternative solution. Mr Molac therefore asked that patients without a medical doctor treating them as a result of medical desertification should be exempt from the UPF. He also asked what urgent measures the Government planned to take to strengthen the presence of general practitioners in the territories under stress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u127	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u128	Let me first of all wish Mr Molac a speedy recovery. You're asking me about two separate issues. First of all, your question suggests that the passages to the emergency room were so far free of charge. This is not the case: a participation was already paid by the patients in the form of the moderator ticket. The implementation of the UPF does not increase this remaining burden, it only simplifies the way in which the patient's participation is calculated. On the contrary, the package allows to reduce the higher load leftovers in case of complex care that could reach up to 60 euros. Support for the UPF remains possible by health supplements in the same way as with the moderator ticket. Finally, returning to this project would in no way solve the concern, which we share, to improve access to the care of the French. We have activated all the levers at our disposal to structurally solve the problem we inherited, which unfortunately will take years. However, in addition to structural responses such as the drastic increase in the number of doctors trained in France, we have provided rapid responses. I am thinking of the equal access plan launched in 2017, which allowed the development of the coordinated exercise. In line with the aspirations of our caregivers, he facilitated exercise in the subdensity zone. I am also thinking of the My Health 2022 plan, which has accelerated the establishment of the territorial occupational health communities (STCPs) whose dynamics are not unheeded and is reinforced by the creation of medical assistant posts and the deployment of 400 general practitioners in the priority territories. Improving access to care is also an objective of the establishment of the service of access to care, SAS, designed to meet the demand for urgent or unscheduled care at any point in the territory and at any time. All these arrangements will ultimately improve access to care in all territories, particularly in rural areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u129	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to put his question, No. 1643, on the public health service in Ariège.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u130	In 2000, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that France had the best health services in the world for an annual expenditure equivalent to 9.5% of its GDP. By comparison, the United States was ranked 37th for an expenditure of 13.3 per cent of GDP. But, two decades later, France was no longer even in the world's "top 10" for quality care, while its health spending rose in 2020 to 12.4% of GDP. Multiple reforms have led to the failure, not only economic but also moral and philosophical, of our national model of public health service. The privatization of a growing part of our health system is also contributing to a drift towards the commodification of health, and unfortunately I fear that the news of recent days – I am talking about the EHPAD scandal in Orpea – reveals only the emerging face of the iceberg. The obsession of profitability has resulted in unreasonable economies of scale. According to the annual statistics of health facilities provided by the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES), 4900 beds were closed in 2017, 4200 in 2018, 3100 in 2019 and, in 2020, in the midst of a global pandemic, 5700. How far are we gonna go? For decades, no clear targets have ever been set for the number of beds or nursing staff in social security funding laws, only targets for spending reductions. The opposite should be done, given that the population is growing and aging, and that chronic diseases associated with stress, "smokers" and various pollutions continue to increase. Minister Veran said in October 2020 that you were done with the dogma of closing beds, but a year later, according to the Scientific Council, it is now one in five beds that is closed, this time because there are no more staff to deal with it. The scale of the destruction of hospitals is not the result of the health crisis, which has only revealed the existence of the crisis. It was the opposite: it was precisely because the hospital was in this state of advanced de-enactment that it was unable to absorb the impact of the health crisis. To date, our health care system has been strong because of the dedication and sense of responsibility of our caregivers. They have endured terrible working conditions, have not counted their hours, to the point of endangering their own physical and mental health. Once again, I would like to commend their admirable commitment to the health and well-being of the population, despite the contempt for these personnel by the administration and many branches of the institution. I have questioned Minister Veran on several occasions since he served on the limits of the Segur of Health, in particular. The proposed revalorisations represent only 183 euros per month on average, well below 300 euros net claimed by the trade union organisations. In addition, many essential occupations are still not affected by these revalorisations, which creates unacceptable discrimination between members of the same collective. Tell us, Madam Deputy Minister, how you intend to reinvigorate the vocations you need without offering decent wages. What undermines the attractiveness of the care professions and drives some of the staff to resign is dehumanized management techniques. They are employed in many establishments and sometimes render these occupations meaningless. To illustrate my point, and as a reminder, I alerted Mr.Véran by mail in July 2020 on the harmful social climate that has prevailed for years at the Ariège Couserans Hospital in my constituency. I met with the director of the institution, staff representatives and the hospital defence committee. I was even called directly, it's quite rare, by a group of emergency doctors who were worried about the break-up of the dialogue with the director. I requested the intervention of the department's departments to put in place mediation between management and disillusioned staff, but a year and a half later nothing changed. Some of the staff, disgusted, now leave the facility or are about to do so. Tensions with regard to staff were such that ten geriatric short-stay beds had to be removed due to a lack of staff. Worse, the emergency department, yet vital in this land-locked rural territory of Couserans, had to close a few days between 17 and 21 November because it no longer had enough staff to operate it. These events have led to awareness and many local elected officials have mobilized to hold the hospital's supervisory board, as well as the management of the SRA, to account. An audit is expected to make its findings soon, but I am not optimistic. A year ago, it might have been possible to reconcile management and its staff, but things went too far and today it is the departure of the director and his close collaborators that is requested. This local example is representative of what is reported to us all over the country. My office was still very recently contacted by a desperate nurse working at the University Hospital Centre (CHU) in Toulouse. She denounces the institutional violence she is subjected to, like others of her colleagues, a violence that has prompted her to attempt suicide in her workplace. That kind of story irritates my blood and makes me angry. These facts are symptomatic of the structural crisis in public hospitals and more generally in our health system. Now is not the time for half-measures, we need to fully restore our health care system. Deputy Minister, when are you going to propose a real upgrading of the health and social professions? When are you going to put an end to the inhuman management practices that drive so many qualified personnel to give up their profession?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u131	Thank you, Mr. Larive. Let me remind you that the six minutes allotted concern the question and the answer; So you leave only 20 seconds to the deputy minister responsible for autonomy, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u132	You leave me 20 seconds, Mr. Larive, after this litany; But I had just as much to tell you, to remind you of what we have already done and that you seem to have forgotten.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u133	Answer my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u134	Mr Larive, I think you have spoken enough not to interrupt the Deputy Minister, to whom I shall leave a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u135	We have to agree to hear things. The health insurance covers almost two thirds of the population of your department, relying in particular on eleven multidisciplinary health centres. In your electoral district, about ten EHPADs receive funding for their renovation and restructuring project for this first year, because they were old-fashioned. Always in your constituency, the renovation of the geriatric sector of the Ariège Couserans hospital centre is supported precisely to meet the needs you express. It is not alone: the hospital center of the Val d'Ariège is also accompanied and that of Lavelanet will be rebuilt. I do not deny that institutions still need our support, that the crisis continues to subject professionals and abilities to a very strong tension. I also do not deny that, locally, not all of these changes have been completed. We continue our dialogue with local elected officials. The decisions have been taken and the results will begin to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u136	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor to raise her question, No. 1639, concerning the French blood establishment (EFS) in the Great East.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u137	In France, blood donations provide treatment for more than 1 million patients each year, with an estimated need of 10,000 donations per day. In the Greater East, 1,500 donations take place daily at nine different collection sites and one research unit, thanks to 960 collaborators, and 600 associations support the 4,500 annual mobile collections organized in the region. After a letter sent in April 2021 and a written question tabled last November, both of which unfortunately remained unanswered by your services, I therefore address myself directly to you, Madam Minister Delegate. For more than 18 months, blood collection has suffered from the health crisis. It declines due to a reduction in the attendance of collections. Over the past two weeks, approximately 15% of appointments have remained vacant. At the same time, the offer has been upset as the collections that take place in companies, in high schools or on campuses, which account for between 20 and 30 per cent of donations, have been largely suspended. However, EFS employees have been on the ground throughout the epidemic, removing donors, preparing their pockets, analyzing them, conducting patient examinations, and distributing the collected pockets. They have therefore remained on the front lines, whatever the situation, and thus have continued to save lives. However, even though, according to the French generosity index, the Great East was the second most generous region in terms of blood donations in 2020, the EFS encounters many difficulties that prevent it from fulfilling its missions. In fact, the EFS is experiencing very strong tensions among nurses and doctors throughout the national territory, with more than 200 vacancies. In the Far East, sixteen key positions are currently open in CDI and thirteen in CDD. This is a real problem as this lack of staff regularly leads to cancellations of mobile collections, in a period of crisis where donor mobilization is more random. Finally, it would appear that regional FSE officers have not benefited from the advances and salary adjustments associated with the Health Segur Accords. I would therefore like to know, Madam Minister Delegate, what actions you are planning to implement to help the EFS, particularly that of the Great East, to fulfil their missions which are vital to the health of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u138	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u139	I thank you for your question, which allows me, in addition to greeting your region, which is particularly good on the subject, to have, in a context of social tension within the EFS, a message of gratitude to all those who exercise it and whose role saves lives on a daily basis. Their mobilization allows us to collect and distribute 10,000 daily donations, allowing us to treat nearly 1 million patients a year. Donation saves lives, and your question reminds me that everyone can contribute to it and that it significantly improves our ability to help the French who need it. It was the singularity of the EFS and the involvement of its staff, especially during the current health crisis, that enabled us to hold on. As you know, the agreements reached by the Ségur de la santé are aimed at catching up with the levels of remuneration in health facilities in order to make the hospital attractive and enable it to carry out its tasks. They were negotiated as part of the first epidemic wave of covid-19 and concluded in the summer of 2020. In order to bridge the gap in attractiveness created by the wage measures applicable to health-care professionals, the Government decided to grant the EFS a specific budget allocation of EUR 20 million, applicable for the financial year 2022 but anticipated as early as September 2021. This envelope enables similar levels of upgrading to those of the Ségur de la santé for nurses and laboratory technicians. I hope that work to modernise the EFS collective agreement will begin quickly, taking into account the attractiveness of the trades. On the other hand, the EFS, like other health-care institutions, can aim for a better attractiveness and a goal of "loyalization" of staff. This objective can be achieved, depending on the specific situation of each institution, by several levers. Compensation, of course, contributes to attractiveness, but it is not the only one to be considered. These objectives can, for example, be based on a strengthened and high-quality social dialogue. We hope that discussions on this issue can take place within the framework of compulsory annual negotiations, which are important moments of social dialogue within these institutions. You see, we follow this with great attention.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u140	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister, for these elements of the response. I believe that it is necessary to make these professions attractive again. As we said to you and to me, the collection of the blood donation, which is a volunteer and which simply saves lives, is one of the most beautiful things that exists in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u142	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor to put her question, No. 1673, on medical demography in the Deux-Sèvres.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u143	The Department of Deux-Sèvres is experiencing a critical situation in terms of medical demography, which leads to a public health emergency with, for example, 150 calls per month from people who do not have a treating physician. You are aware of medical installation support devices, whether they are the Priority Intervention Areas (PIAs) or the Complementary Action Areas (CAZs). It is the IPZ device that gives the maximum aid to promote the installation of doctors. The map of territories is to be revised by March 31 by the Regional Health Agency, based on a methodology that raises several questions. First, it is based on 2019 data. However, we have had many retirements of doctors since then. There is then a ceiling mechanism because only 47.17% of the population of the Deux-Sèvres can be classified as PIDs. Five ZACs become ZIPs – forgiveness for acronyms. This excludes territories from the maximum aid, e.g. the health living territories of Melle and Sauze-Vausais, while they have a population rate in long-term conditions and a higher rate of preventable hospitalizations than in other territories which will benefit from the IPZ scheme. We would like not to find ourselves in the situation of having to undress Jacques to dress Pierre and the question asked is therefore that of the departmental ceiling, so that all the territories of the Deux-Sèvres that suffer from great difficulties in the field of medical demography can benefit from the health insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u144	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u145	You are asking me about the identification of so-called subdenses in doctors in the New Aquitaine region and more particularly in your Department of Deux-Sèvres where ZIPs and ZACs are being redefined by the RSA on the basis of the national methodology. This methodology was updated in October 2021 after extensive consultation with representatives of professionals, users and local and regional authorities. It is now more flexible and gives more room to local decisions, by refining areas by using indicators adapted to the characteristics of the territory. The choices made must be the subject of consultations and exchanges with the actors, in particular local elected representatives. In addition, the population thresholds in ZIP and ZAC – pardon for acronyms – have been revised and objectified. In New Aquitaine, thresholds were increased by almost six points to 16.8% in PIA and 45.8% in CAZ. It's a significant increase, you'll agree. The identification of subdenses can be used to ensure consistency in the choice of measures contributing to the strengthening of the medical presence in the territories. I am thinking in particular of the financial aid for health insurance, the public service contract (PSEC) or the start-of-year contract (CDE). However, each SRA may amend the regional order as required. In the Deux-Sèvres department, the current population makes it possible to consider "zoning" the entire territory in much higher proportions than the regional average, respectively 52.83 per cent and 47.17 per cent. For example, eight health-life territories (HSTs) could be classified in ZACs and twelve territories in ZIPs after the local zoning review committee has given favourable advice. Beyond the classification of territories, all actors agree on the importance of the solidity of the health project and on the attention given to the reception of future doctors and their families. In addition, a CPTS project is under way south of the Deux-Sèvres and will cover the territories of Melle and Sauze-Vausais, which you mentioned. These devices, combined with the efforts of the health actors in your territory, will help to improve access to care for the inhabitants of the department. You can rely on regional government services to support health professional projects that meet the needs of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u146	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u147	Thank you for your answer, Madam Deputy Minister. Flexibility of criteria is a fact, as is consultation at the local level. However, we are stuck, if you allow me the word, by the ceiling, on a departmental scale, of the number of inhabitants allowing the classification in ZIP. Therefore, territories that should receive maximum aid do not benefit from it. We face the practical impossibility of taking into consideration the criteria I mentioned – long-term illness, preventable hospitalization – and we hope that the Government will pay particular attention to this difficulty. However, these different mechanisms are not the only solutions to the problem of medical demography. The forthcoming debate on the presidential and parliamentary elections will provide an opportunity to reflect on new avenues. However, the current arrangements must be fully deployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u148	Mrs Delphine Batho, speaking on behalf of Mrs Delphine Bagarry, who cannot be present this morning for the same reason, I believe, as Mr Molac.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u149	I thank the service of the meeting to allow me to ask the question of our colleague Delphine Bagarry, who had indeed been reached by the covid -19, who wanted to question the Government on Decree No. 2021-1934 of 30 December 2021 on the experiment concerning the exercise of voluntary interruptions of instrumental pregnancy in health facilities by midwives. Under Article 70 of the Social Security Financing Act (LFSS) for 2021, this experiment must help to improve access to abortion in the territories concerned. Recall that this medical act contributes to the exercise of a fundamental right for women: that of free disposal of their bodies. However, this act is affected by the shortage in the provision of care that characterizes all medical professions. However, the proposal for a law to strengthen the right to abortion, tabled by our colleague Albane Gaillot, which we will discuss at a public meeting on 9 February – a trans-party text which brings together a great deal – provides, in its Article 1 bis, for the exercise of instrumental abortions in health facilities by midwives to be incorporated into the common law. If this article were adopted, it would be a more ambitious provision than the measure provided for by the decree of 30 December 2021 since the entire national territory would be concerned, without any time limit. This provision would also contribute to increasing the competence and recognition of the work of midwives. Our colleague Delphine Bagarry asks the Government to clarify its position. If the bill to strengthen the right to abortion – an ambitious text for access to abortion – was adopted, does it still intend to issue a decree setting out the rules for the implementation of instrumental abortions in health facilities by midwives throughout the national territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u150	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u151	First of all, I wish Mrs Delphine Bagarry a speedy recovery. The testing of instrumental abortions by midwives in health facilities, initiated since the end of 2021, represents an important step towards improving access to abortion, which is a major concern of the Government. It will facilitate the organization of hospital teams to meet the demand and provide women with a new possible interlocutor in their journeys. With the publication of the decree and decree of 30 December 2021, which specify, on the one hand, the training and experience required for midwives and the specific organization required of the health establishments experimenters, and, on the other hand, the organisation of the national call for applications, the approach which will lead to the selection of some 50 teams and the start of the very first projects by the end of the first half of 2022 is now launched. The value of this experiment is real. It will clarify the conditions that could be used for the training and experience of midwives with a view to the generalization of this practice, as well as the conditions for the organization of health facilities. The current experiment and possible generalization of this practice should therefore be considered as complementary if article 1 bis of the proposed law were to be adopted. As you know, the parliamentary timetable has been adapted to enable the bill to reach the end of the parliamentary process through joint action by the Government and groups of the majority but also by other political groups. I cannot, of course, prejudge the outcome of the debates in the coming days. What I can tell you, on the other hand, is that the first feedback from the experiment will allow us to secure this generalization and eventually change the conditions of practice in the new decree to be issued. This pre-stage is therefore essential to prefigure the generalization of experimentation and to ensure better access to GVI under the required security and confidentiality conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u152	Mrs Delphine Batho has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u153	Thank you for your answer, Madam Deputy Minister. If I understand you correctly, you cannot prejudge Parliament's vote, but if the bill were finally adopted, the exercise of instrumental abortions by midwives in health facilities would be widespread and would be the subject of a new decree, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u154	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor to put his question, No. 1661, concerning the posts of Senior Education Advisers (CPE).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u155	Madam Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I would like to draw your attention to the resources allocated to schools in rural areas such as Orne. For many years, the State has invested heavily in large cities, especially in towns and suburbs, to increase the number of teachers and give hope to young people and families. In the meantime, in rural departments, we suffer from an ageing population and negative demographics, which cause us to lose teaching positions every year. Paradoxically, while the Orne will still have to return ten positions in the first degree at the next re-entry, there is a reversal of the trend regarding college staff, especially since the health crisis and the installation of new families from Île-de-France. We must give energy back to our schools, to teachers, to parents of students and to all the staff who give our children the tools to grow up and find their way. We must provide our institutions with the best possible support. The Conseil départemental de l'Orne has for several years been committed to an ambitious plan to modernize the colleges, which bears fruit from the point of view of their attractiveness. It is essential to do the same with the staff managed by the Ministry of National Education – I am thinking in particular of the CPEs, which many rural Ornais colleges lack. This is the case in Briouze, Putanges-le-Lac and La-Ferrière-aux-Étangs. As part of the distribution of public education jobs for the school year 2022-2023, the Normandy Academy will benefit from thirteen additional posts of CPE. It is therefore now possible to provide our rural colleges with these valuable professionals for the accompaniment of children. It should be remembered that in rural areas the college is the main place of socialization and that the need for supervision is important. Two-thirds of students use school collection on a daily basis and therefore need to be offered activities for peri-educational times. With the rise in violence and the increase in the number of students in difficulty, the absence of a CPE, whose mission is to create a link and mediate, is strongly felt. To create good learning conditions, school heads and professors strive to fulfil this mission in addition to their own and to the detriment of their primary function. That is why the Collège Charles-Léandre de La-Ferrière-aux-Étangs, in my constituency, applied for CPE after the announcement of the thirteen additional positions open in Normandy. This school, despite its stable number for several years – about 260 students, 80% of whom come from low-resource families – do not currently have CPE. In addition, there is only one school nurse who presents one and a half days a week, as well as one social worker, one day a week, and one psychologist, half a day a week. Madam Minister Delegate, can you reassure us of the desire of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports to provide the Ornais rural colleges of CPE and, in particular, the Collège Charles-Léandre de La-Ferrière-aux-Étangs?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u156	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u157	In general, the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports ensures that the allocations allocated to the academies are fair. For the first time in several years, the Finance Act for 2022 provides for the creation, at national level, of 300 CPE positions to strengthen school life teams in schools and respond to the major challenges you have recalled. As you say, the Normandy Academy will benefit from the creation of thirteen CPE positions in this context at the next re-entry. The central administration shall ensure an equitable distribution of EPC posts among the academies, on the basis of criteria such as school enrolment, but also the presence or absence of a boarding school or the classification of the institution as a priority education network (REP) or as an enhanced priority education network (REP +). Numbers are not the only criterion for distribution; threshold effects related to the size of schools are also taken into account so that colleges with a reduced number of students are not penalized in the distribution. It is up to the academic authorities, as close as possible to the field, to assess the needs of each institution as possible and to allocate the allocation allocated by the central administration between the various colleges and lycées, with a view to ensuring the greatest equity for the success of the pupils. Finally, it should be recalled that the distribution of CPE jobs is based on a local analysis of the educational means available to each school, such as the number of education assistants. Be convinced, honourable Member, that the local authorities will take into account all these criteria in assessing the situation of Charles-Léandre de La-Ferrière-aux-Étangs College.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u158	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u159	Thank you for your answer, minister, but I am not reassured by her. The Ornais colleges are almost all equipped with a CPE, but some of them, which nevertheless host a large number of students – just under 300 students for the Collège de La-Ferrière-aux-Étangs – still do not have it because of the threshold effects you mentioned. It is essential that the additional CPE positions allocated to the Normandy Academy benefit rural colleges that do not have them and face particular problems. The assignment of a CPE to an institution is not a mere matter of numbers, of classification into a PPR or of the presence of a boarding school. Rural colleges are currently facing new phenomena, including violence, which would be helped by the presence of a CPE.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u160	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to put her question, No. 1646, on the lack of resources in schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u161	Madam Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, I would like to present today a petition launched in my constituency entitled "Means for Education! " I would ask you to forward it to the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport, Jean-Michel Blanquer. My electoral district consists of three cities, Colombes, Gennevilliers and Villeneuve-la-Garenne, which comprise seven priority districts. Let me explain why parents and national education staff have decided to sign this petition, which requires additional resources for the school. In Villeneuve-la-Garenne, where the poverty rate is 25%, is the College Georges-Pompidou, classified as REP. In this institution, three teaching positions and one position of Senior Education Advisor (CPE) have not been filled since last September, to which must be added the uninsured replacements, in French in particular. However, forty-five hours of total hourly allowance (GHD) were announced less for next year. This decision will result in the abolition of one class, the disappearance of certain posts and additional working hours for the remaining teachers. At the Collège Édouard-Manet, still in Villeneuve-la-Garenne, there has been a shortage of half a position as a professor of technology since last year. In high school Michelangelo, despite the increase in the number of students, we have just learned that the institution was going to lose 100 hours of total hourly allowance for the next school year – a hundred hours! In Gennevilliers, at Guy-Môquet College, classified as REP+, no technology teacher has been assigned since the beginning of the school year; As a result of unreplaced absences, students spent three weeks without a physics teacher and two weeks without an EPS teacher. After a sharp drop in the DHG last year, it will be further reduced by 30 hours at the next school year. At Collège Édouard-Vaillant, still in Gennevilliers, the number of people is increasing but the hourly allocation will decrease by seventeen hours. At Galileo high school, in the same city, there too, the numbers are increasing but the DHG is decreasing, which will result in the abolition of the duties monitored on Saturday morning, of the post-bac accompaniment scheme and of the cultural half-day in second class; As for the hours of personalized accompaniment, they disappear from all levels. At the Collège Gay-Lussac de Colombes, formerly ranked REP, since the beginning of September, ten classes have still not seen a professor of technology. Students have lost eleven hours of French, nineteen hours of English or twenty-seven hours of Spanish, and the DHG for 2022 forecasts a decrease of thirty-seven hours, while there will be only five fewer students. In order to maintain the limit of twenty-six students per class, the school will have to remove thirty-seven hours of courses from existing classes. At Maupassant High School in Colombes, too, the DHG will be down and the classes will have more than thirty students. This intervention is not enough for me to go around all the secondary schools in my constituency, to which you can add kindergartens and elementary schools: likewise, the teachers who are absent are not replaced and there are children who lack AESH – accompanying students with disabilities. Of course, these same institutions operate without school medicine. You can choose to answer me as you usually do, listing all that you have done as great, history and unedited, but I would just like you to indicate to the signatories of this petition and to all the others if you are going to remedy these situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u162	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u163	I have no doubt that the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport will respond accurately to your requests. However, you can see with us that since the beginning of the quinquennium, education has been at the top of the Government's priorities, under the leadership of the Head of State, to build a school system that allows everyone to succeed without leaving anyone at the edge of the road. The national education budget, first, increased by more than 10% between 2017 and 2021, or an additional 4.8 billion euros. Priorities have been set: in the first degree, they focus on basic knowledge; in the second, the personalisation of the courses aims to offer the students a better springboard towards the future. We have also created 300 EPC posts this year – I have just mentioned it – but, because we are walking on two legs, there is no rise in the general level without social justice. That is why we are also determined to combat inequalities, whether through the "Duties Done" scheme, free breakfasts for 300,000 children or through the schooling of 400,000 children with disabilities, which represents an increase of 20 per cent in five years. The school of the Republic brings together more than 1.2 million people who are engaged on a daily basis, and I think we will all agree to pay tribute to them, especially after these two years of health crisis during which we have done everything possible to ensure the protection of all, by keeping the schools open for our children. This was not the easiest choice to make, but we took on this major challenge. On 13 January, the Government announced the recruitment of an additional 3,300 contract teachers, the use of supplementary lists in the first degree, the recruitment of 1500 additional education assistants and 1500 administrative contractors throughout the school year, as well as the extension of 1,700 contracts for anti-covid mediators, as necessary. As you can see, our mobilization is permanent, but once again, of course, I will pass on your specific requests to my national education colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u164	The floor is open to Mrs Beatrice Piron to put forward her question, No. 1648, concerning the fight against illiteracy in education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u165	For the past four years, mastering fundamental knowledge – reading, writing, counting and respecting others – has been a priority of our work. It is in this sense that we have concentrated our efforts on primary school and limited to twenty-four pupils the classes of major section of kindergarten, CP and CE1, which have also been split into REP and REP+. These reforms, Minister, were essential, and the results of national assessments in CP and EC1 show that they are bearing fruit. In the long term, they will help prevent or at least limit illiteracy, which currently affects 7% of adults who have attended school in France. Some students, however, among today's high school students, have not been able to benefit from these reforms: they continue their schooling with significant difficulties in reading and writing, and are therefore in great pain. Unfortunately, too many students drop out. The results of the fluence tests last year indicate that about 15% of the sixth grade students do not have the expected level in CE2, and although the doubling of the classes in REP and REP+ can give us hope for a decrease in this figure, I would remind you that there are many other children in difficulty in classes outside REP. I would also point out that at present 14% of the youth called to the JDC – defence and citizenship day – are identified as reading difficulties, which will be reflected throughout their personal and professional lives. Thus, Madam Minister, as chair of the "Illitudinalism and Illectronism" study group, I would like to ask you about what could be done to prevent illiteracy better and to accompany students, college students or high school students in this field. What specific accompaniment could be given to them so that they can regain their feet before they find themselves in a situation of stalling? What systematic action could be taken to help young people diagnosed with major difficulties during the JDC or the UNS – universal national service – when they are still in school?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u166	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u167	As you recalled, one of the fundamental tasks of the school of the Republic is to give every student the same chance to succeed. That is why the Government has made mastery of basic knowledge – reading, writing and counting – one of its priorities from an early age. As you recall, and I know your mobilization on the subject, preventing illiteracy and combating it is a fundamental issue that requires the attention of the entire educational community, from an early age. The first effects of the measures deployed since 2019 to meet this requirement are beginning to be felt at the sixth entry, as shown by the evaluations of the re-entry 2021. But we need to continue efforts at college and high school, especially for students who have not benefited from the reform. To this end, the Ministry's work is twofold: it aims to strengthen the taste and practice of reading among all students, and to advance those who still have learning difficulties, notably through personalized accompaniment and the "Duties Done" scheme. The fluence test, proposed as part of the sixth evaluation, is an important indicator that allows teams to identify students with difficulties. A partnership has been established with the Ministry of Culture to encourage the establishment of reading-specific spaces in schools and colleges. Partnerships between public libraries, colleges and high schools are now systematic. The operation "Reading, a great national cause 2021-2022" is also an opportunity to develop three major actions: the generalisation of the "15 hour reading", the valorisation of reading aloud and the multiplication of meetings with authors and illustrators. Particular attention is also paid to the practice of reading aloud and the development of oral skills, particularly in view of the great oral requirement of the reform of the baccalaureate. The "If we read aloud" competition for students and high school students, created in partnership with Lumni and "La Grande Librairie", makes it possible to promote this type of learning. Finally, the academic referents "illiteracy" encourage the sharing of tools and practices, raise awareness of the phenomenon, make the actions already undertaken more readable and encourage the entire educational community to contribute to the initiatives carried out in favour of reading. The Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports is a founding member of the IPTF – Public Interest Group – of ANLCI, the National Agency for Combating Illiteracy; it has implemented enhanced collaboration with the members of the Agency. In 2022, it will draw on the business plan and the new strategic orientations to define priority actions that will be decided jointly, within the framework of a shared roadmap.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u168	Mrs Beatrice Piron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u169	I thank you for reminding you of all the measures that have already been taken, and of course I remain at the service of all those who wish to work in the fight against illiteracy. I would be happy to meet the illiterate referents in the academies, to try to analyse the situation and to see what experiments could be made to really help the young people concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u170	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1666, on health at school in the Sarthe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u171	My question is addressed to the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sport; It concerns the situation of schools, colleges and high schools in the face of the pandemic and, more generally, the health care of pupils, particularly in the city of Le Mans and in the department of Sarthe. Many teachers, students and families have been facing the pandemic for several months in accordance with health guidelines, as well as the withdrawal and return protocols that have been established for sick children and teachers. The Ministry of National Education has announced decisions to better inform the social partners, to consolidate the situation of contract staff and to provide administrative reinforcements during the pandemic. A recent parliamentary report on the evaluation of public health prevention policies was considered by the Assembly last January. It is alarmed by the sedentary nature of children and the development of obesity problems; According to studies by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, the social environment of origin plays a major role in this other pandemic. The same report notes recent but limited initiatives to encourage physical activity and, according to its findings, school health lacks simple tools to monitor the health of students: it has few health personnel to fulfil its mandated tasks or even, as the pandemic has shown, to carry out extensive screening and vaccination operations. Of course, the concept of a health-promoting school has been developed, but the associated scheme would, according to our colleagues, benefit from being "more concrete". There is a "Sport, health and well-being" plan in the Pays de la Loire region, which contains some guidelines for young people, but their effective character is not demonstrated. In Sarthe, the poverty rate is also higher – 13.2% – than the regional average – 10.7%. In those circumstances, what measures does the Government intend to take to promote health in schools, to ensure the access of the poorest children to health workers and to mainstream health prevention initiatives, particularly with regard to physical activity? To what extent will the announced resources be allocated to the needs of the students, in Le Mans and in the Sarthe? Finally, in my constituency, the difficulty of systematically replacing teachers or canteen staff puts the elected representatives in great difficulty and increases the burden on the communes, who must find replacement staff and find themselves with unconsumed meals. Thank you for your answer, minister, and I hope it will be helpful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u172	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u173	As you recalled, the "health-promoting school" approach is indeed an effective action: it is not just a concept. We are working to make it live and to create a common culture around health promotion, which is essential to combat school inequalities. The fight against obesity and sedentaryness must be one of the priorities of this strategy, and it is. We have thus developed several devices whose complete list would be too long to mention, but I will recall the existence of the operation "30 minutes of daily physical activity", which benefits 500,000 students in 7,000 schools; its generalization is planned for 2024. In addition, food education is included in the Education Code. Of course, the health-promoting school is based on local contexts. In the Sarthe, one third of the schools validated their "30 minutes of daily physical activity" and in the case of the "Know how to ride by bike" system, nearly 300 certificates had been issued in September 2021. As for the "Aisance aquatique" plan, it is supported by the department and includes cycles devoted to the priority neighbourhoods of city policy (QPV); The success rate for the aquatic ease test is 87% and just over 46,000 students from 403 schools are involved in school swimming. The Ministry also encourages the establishment of school sports sections and scheduled classes. More than 100,000 students are enrolled in the existing 3700 school sports sections, of which 40 per cent are girls; In the Sarthe, 80% of these sections are in college. A special education course "Physical Education, Practice and Sports Culture" (EPPCS) was also established at the General High School; It opened at the beginning of 2021. As you can see, action to promote physical activity and more generally health-friendly attitudes for all is strong and far-reaching; Of course, we will continue to work on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u174	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor to put his question, No. 1645, concerning the non-replacement of teaching staff.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u175	Madam Minister, I come to talk to you about the concrete situation in schools in Seine-Saint-Denis because of the absence of teachers who have not been replaced. In my riding alone, the parents of the students gave me amazing figures about January. This is what is happening in Saint-Ouen, Île Saint-Denis, Saint-Denis and Epinay – and it is not exhaustive – summarized in the number of school days missing: twenty-five days at the Anatole-France elementary kindergarten; 18 days at the Alexandre-Bachelet Kindergarten and Elementary School; 15 days at the Emile-Zola nursery school; twenty-two days at Emile-Zola Elementary School; 22 days at the Frederick Joliot Curie Elementary School; 19 days at the Irene-Joliot-Curie Elementary School; thirteen days at the Jean-de-La-Fontaine school; ten days at the Jules-Michelet nursery school; 30 days at the Jules-Michelet elementary school; 18 days at Nelson-Mandela School; eight days at the Paul Langevin Elementary Kindergarten in Saint-Ouen; Twenty-two days at Victor-Hugo Elementary School; Twenty-three days at the Paul Langevin Elementary Kindergarten in Saint-Denis; Twenty-three days at the Samira-Bellil Kindergarten and Elementary School. Here are some examples of missing courses in some colleges and high schools: no courses in chemistry physics and life and earth sciences (SVT) at Jacques-Feyder High School in Épinay; no professor of mercatics and management – a baccalaureate discipline – at the Auguste-Blanqui high school in Saint-Ouen; no German teacher for five months and no nurse at Jules-Michelet College; half-time instead of full-time in French and Spanish at Josephine-Baker College; Recurrent absence of teachers of math, French and English at Dora-Maar College. It should be noted that this accumulation of missing school days is not unique in January and the effects of the health crisis: it is almost the same bleeding since the beginning of September. There is no question for parents or myself of pointing to the responsibility of teachers. That, Madam Minister, is the reality of our schools. It is, in fact, a break in republican equality in the Seine-Saint-Denis. It refers your reassuring and self-satisfied communication to propaganda that runs counter to the reality experienced by children, parents and national education staff. Although we write to the Rector and the Académie services, we have no answer. Where are the teachers for the Seine-Saint-Denis? What are you going to do to finally solve the structural problem of non-replacement of professors in this department and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u176	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u177	Thank you, Mr Coquerel, for insisting that even a few days of absence from schools can have a significant impact. That was why the Government had endeavoured to keep schools open during those two years of crisis. The replacement of absent teachers is a major concern of the department as it relates to the continuity and quality of public service. To deal with the crisis, we announced new recruitments to strengthen teams and ensure better replacement: 3,300 additional contract professors; use of supplementary lists in the first degree; 1500 additional education assistants; 1500 administrative contractors who can provide support in the day-to-day management of the crisis; 1,700 ombudsmen's contracts which will be maintained as much as necessary. Exceptional means have been made available since November 2020 to ensure the replacement of teachers who are either in remote work because they are affected by the covid -19, under special leave of absence, or on regular sick leave. The health crisis has affected the availability of teachers and substitutes, and it continues to do so, which requires us to act both cyclically and structurally. This is what the department is committed to doing. In order to reduce absences, thus the need for replacement, we have undertaken several actions. We compensate for training during the small holidays, which allows us to register absences by nature foreseeable outside the teaching time. It is now possible to postpone the training times and other obligations of teachers outside the classroom, so as to improve the management of the replacement of absent teachers when their absences are foreseeable. This corresponds to the commitment No. 11 of the Grenelle de l'Éducation: "Ensuring effective pedagogical continuity". We also experiment with digital solutions in sixteen departments and optimize the current organization to replace teachers, especially in the second degree. These devices allow for autonomous work – anticipated and supervised, of course. They have been in place for a month, with home-based educational aids (AEDs) benefiting from better paid overtime. We also need to act to improve the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Don't doubt it, Mr Coquerel, the ministry is at work in all the establishments in France. We try, to the extent possible, to overcome the problem of the non-replacement of absent teachers during this pandemic but also in a more structural way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u178	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u179	Non-continuity is not short-term but structural: long before the health crisis, which you put forward, you have refused to titularize the contract workers, established the rule of non-replacement for an absence of less than two weeks – acceptance of the principle of non-continuity of the public service – and abolished 7490 teaching posts in five years in the colleges and high schools of Seine-Saint-Denis. Now, you're announcing 190 class closures in September 2022. The least we can say is the thing that counts is not there. I hope at least that you will contact the rector of the academy to answer the question asked by the parents of my constituency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u180	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor to put his question, No. 1672, concerning the prison in Donshery.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u181	In 2018, more than 700 Ardennais participated in working groups on the construction of a revitalisation plan for the Ardennes department. It was signed by the Government, the Regional Council, the Departmental Council, the Inter-Communalities, the Consular Chambers and the University on 15 March 2019 at Charleville-Mézières Prefecture. This plan includes more than a hundred concrete actions to revive the department. I assure you that I am mobilized every day to make concrete progress and achieve results. Sheet 87 provides for the construction of an experimental prison centered on work in Donshery. A few months after the signing of the plan, on 27 August 2019, Ms Belloubet, then Minister of Justice, announced that the Government was holding this candidacy supported by all Ardennes partners. If I ask the Government this morning, it is because I would like to know very precisely the timing of the establishment's construction and how it will be recruited. We need to prepare companies that will give work to these future inmates. All this requires consistency, I would be very grateful if a precise timetable could be announced this morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u182	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u183	Thank you for your question, Mr. Member, which gives me the opportunity to return, on behalf of the keeper of the seals, to the project INSERRE – Innovating by experimental structures of accountability and reintegration through employment – committed by the Ministry of Justice and developed by the department of the Ardennes. This project consists of the creation of experimental establishments entirely oriented towards work and vocational reintegration, with an affirmed aim of combating recidivism. It is part of the prison plan announced by the President of the Republic in 2018, which includes the construction of 15,000 additional prison places by 2027. Beyond the capacity-building effort, this building programme reflects an ambitious strategy for diversifying the prison housing stock through the establishment of differentiated detention regimes. Within this framework, InSERRE provides for the design of three establishments identified on pilot sites: Donshery, Arras and Toul. These experimental establishments will welcome convicted and voluntary prisoners to integrate an individualized career path. In addition to creating a career path, the aim of INSERRE is to encourage exchanges between prisons and territories, to attract high-value businesses, particularly in the digital, sustainable development and remote services sectors, and to establish links with local authorities – municipalities, departments and regions. The Keeper of the Seals is particularly grateful to you, Mr President, for your involvement in this project because the involvement of local public and private actors in the territory is one of the essential conditions for its success. Concerning the prison in Donshery, the operational phase of the InSERRE project will take place in the course of 2022, with a view to a planned delivery in 2026. Delivery times have been affected by pandemic constraints. In any case, MP, you can count on the commitment of the Government and the investment of the services of the guard of seals to carry out this innovative project of our prison policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u184	Mr Jean-Luc Warsmann has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u185	Thank you, Minister, for these confirmations and dates. The Ministry of Justice is sometimes poorly received in some places where it provides for the construction of prisons. This is not the case in the Ardennes where the project is unanimous of all parties – town hall, intercommunality, partners, regional council. We very much hope for the success of this project, which also represents the creation of a hundred jobs. And jobs, we need them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u186	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor to put his question, No. 1670, on the transfer of the management of national roads to the departments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u187	My question was addressed to Jacqueline Gourault because it relates to the law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (3DS). Last night, the Joint Joint Committee reached agreement on the final text, which we can welcome. In particular, it provides for the possibility of transfer by the State of the management of the national road network to departments or metropolises, on a voluntary basis. Such transfers – already in place – can allow local authorities to have a more coherent management of their local road network and to be more responsive to certain projects than the state. For example, I will give you the National Highway 10 that crosses the department of Loir-et-Cher and my constituency from north to south. During this RN10, the stakes are both urban and rural. They are urban in terms of securing certain places: the crossroads of Rue des Vignes between the commune of Saint-Ouen and that of Vendôme; the entrance and exit of the Aigremonts district in the commune of Vendôme; a crossroads in Huisseau-en-Beauce that would allow access to the domain of the Plessis-Fortia on which is located an important economic hotel project. Once the law has been enacted, what will be the means of transfer? More specifically, what will be the conditions for transferring the burden and revenue associated with the management of these national roads? What happens when the national road passes through several departments and a department becomes a candidate for the takeover in direct management – this will a priori be the case of the Loir-et-Cher – but that other neighbouring departments do not want it? How will the management between the State and local and regional authorities then be structured?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u188	The Secretary of State for Rural Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u189	The 3DS bill provides that departments and cities may request the decentralization of motorways, roads or sections of road, on the basis of a list published by decree two months after the enactment of the said law and concerning nearly 10000 kilometres of road. It also provides for the possibility for regions to experiment with the management of national roads. As of the issuance of the decree, communities will have six months to deliberate on the roads they wish to be transferred or made available as part of the experiment. During these six months, communities and the state will be able to discuss important issues and exchange useful information on the physical condition of the roads concerned. At the end of this period, if competing requests are made by two authorities for the same section of the road, the regional prefect will organise a consultation for a maximum of two months on the basis of scenarios which he will propose to the territorial authorities concerned. After that, the communities will have one month to take an amending deliberation of their application, to incorporate the outcome of the consultation if the agreement has been reached. The state will then have one month to decide on the distribution of roads between the communities and itself. In doing so, it will take into account in particular the outcome of the consultation, the coherence of the routes and the means dedicated to the management of these routes. It is at this point that he will examine situations such as the one you describe: if roads cross several departments, he will decide according to the type of traffic they support and the voluntary authorities or not to take them back. The right to offset the transferred investment costs will be equal to the average of the updated expenditure recorded over a period of at least five years prior to the transfer of powers. As for the right to compensation for transferred operating expenses, it will be equal to the average of the up-to-date expenditure found over a maximum period of three years prior to the transfer of powers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u190	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u191	In a word, I thank the Secretary of State for the accuracy of his answer on the conditions for the transfer of road management. I take note of the six-month time limit available to those communities that wish to deliberate in this direction and the two months of consultation that may follow the requests, as well as the five-year rule governing the calculation of the rights to offset the investment costs transferred from the State to the local authorities. I will refer this to the chairman of the Loir-et-Cher department council, who should be satisfied with this answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u192	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor to put his question, No. 1676, on the increase in university fees.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u193	It concerns the situation of students in France and, more generally, the future of higher education. The President of the Republic recently declared before France Universities: "We will not be able to remain in a system where higher education has no price for almost all students". These words, which seem to me completely disconnected from reality, are representative of the project you are preparing for 2022: despite your attempts to deny, the terms used by the President of the Republic were very clear. To the exact opposite of the emancipation project presented in 2017, they are, in my opinion, announcing a project of assignment. What does this declaration mean? That in order to combat the very unequal dualism of higher education, you prefer not to try to bring universities closer to the great schools by investing massively in higher education, but to layer the model of universities over that of the great schools, which is based on selection and high financial costs, which will exclude even more young people from the popular categories of higher education. Such a choice is consistent with the Government's overall project, which aims to direct more students towards career paths such as learning, by basing this dynamic not on the individual choices of young people, but on the means available to them to succeed in school: it is on this basis that they will be assigned to a profession. In addition to the registration fees, studies in France already represent a very high cost: around 1000 euros per month are needed to live and study in good conditions. Many young people, who do not have the means to do so, have a very poor track record in higher education. Under this quinquennium – I am not the first to stress this – the queues at food distributions have exploded, psychological distress has worsened and student insecurity has increased. The Restos du coeur announced that 50% of their beneficiaries are now under 25 years of age. At the same time, Oxfam points out that the fortunes of billionaires have increased more since the beginning of the pandemic than in a decade – to the detriment of the poorest, of course. While the President of the Republic said he wanted to "wrong" the non-vaccinated French, so he announced that he wanted to "wrong" the students. He himself confirmed it last week as he tried to deny his willingness to increase registration fees, since he suggested, by responding to students, that the number of fellows had to be reduced and the small amounts paid down, supposedly to help those who are at the bottom of the scale – yet I do not know any fellow, even in the early stages, who does not need this money to succeed. In any case, how can we believe in the President of the Republic's repentance regarding the increase in registration fees for all, when we know that he has already brought those imposed on students from a country outside the European Union – who, I would remind you, have almost no access to any help – to more than 3000 euros? At the time, I wrote to you about it. The President of the Republic therefore seems, in order to combat student precariousness, simply to want to fire the most precarious students of the university, which, in my view, is problematic. As I know in advance, you will object to me that much has been done and that significant investments have been made, but many of the measures that you boast about are just advertising effects. The reality of the field is that the precariousness of the students has increased. Several economists point out that this government has invested less for students than those who have succeeded each other in the previous two quinquennats. The French social assistance system is unfair, because it is based on the situation of parents, while students do not live with their parents' blue card. It is insufficient to enable them to get out of the precarious situation. It is, at last, inconsistent, because it excludes foreign students. I had drafted a bill to create an emancipation income for students. Of course, it could not be examined and I did not receive any reply. I therefore ask again the question: high school students, students and national education staff have been mobilizing for a month and are calling for a new day of national action on 3 February. While the situation of young people is alarming, their anger seems legitimate. I therefore wish to know what the President of the Republic meant, exactly, during his last two student outings, and what measures you intend to take, during the few weeks of your term of office, to combat student insecurity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u194	The Minister for Higher Education, Research and Innovation has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u195	Thank you for your question, which will allow you to invite yourself to a little more honesty in your remarks. First of all, you are quoting only part of the statement of the President of the Republic, who wanted to stress that while one third of French students are scholarship holders, they suffer from a very precarious situation. If it wasn't clear enough for you, he added: "When you want to fight against student insecurity, you don't increase university fees." It's just common sense. We must transform the system of allocation of scholarships in depth. This will indeed mean making a choice between family solidarity – which broadly corresponds to the model of the countries of southern Europe – and support for emancipation and autonomy, in force in northern Europe. This question is much more complex than you suggest. Let me say that for the 20 million students who benefited from it, the possibility of eating twice a day a meal at 1 euro was not a "advertising effect". I would also like to remind you that the students have been granted 130,000 psychologists free of charge for the last ten months. Their attachment to the general social security scheme saves them 217 euros per year. A number of exceptional aids have also been created, such as the Euro1 mutual fund. I will also mention the financing of the rehabilitation of all the CROUS housing units – the regional centre for academic and school works – by 2024, or the construction of more than 30,000 additional CROUS housing units. Above all, the EUR 1 billion investment we have made has led to a ten-point improvement in the L1-to-L2 transition rate – an increase never seen before in previous governments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u196	Mrs Béatrice Descamps, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised her question, No. 1671, concerning the musicians who spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u197	The numerous inequalities suffered by the incumbent territorial arts education assistants, commonly referred to as dumists, jeopardize the future of this profession, which is essential to ensuring access to culture in the territories. The crisis of vocations and shortage of hirings attests to the inadaptation of their professional status. As has already been pointed out last month in this House. The main reason lies in the fact that the discipline "intervention en milieu scolaire", to which the dumists are trained, is the only one to be excluded from Article 7 of the Decree of 2 September 1992 laying down the conditions of access and the procedure for organizing competitions for the recruitment of territorial teachers of artistic education. This situation simply prevents them from gaining access to category A and leads them into a work impasse. The reclassification of the dumists to category A is also advocated by the Superior Council of the Territorial Civil Service (CSTP) since the report on the artistic education sector given by Jesus of Carlos in 2018. More recently, following a hearing by the Fédération nationale des musicians intervenors (FNAMI), which represents the dumists, the CSFPT, at its session of January 19, 2022, unanimously expressed the hope that the situation of the dumists would be urgently resolved by its two colleges, comprising respectively the representatives of the staff and those of the territorial employers. This opinion has not been followed up. So my question is twofold. What concrete measures do you intend to take to amend the above-mentioned decree in order to create a new status as a teacher of artistic and cultural education within a multi-grade category A employment framework, replacing the category B framework which currently governs dumists? Within what time frame could they apply?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u198	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u199	I would point out to the people who are listening to us that you are asking me about the situation of the holders of a university degree in acting musician (DUMI), the dumists – it seemed useful to me to recall why this acronym became a word. As you know, the territorial civil service is governed by statutes that define the conditions of recruitment and the tasks entrusted to the members of each employment framework. As you pointed out, the Territorial Arts Education Assistants (ATEA), as category B officials, fall within a different employment framework than the Territorial Arts Education Teachers (PTEA), who are Category A officials. The applicable rules are not the same, in particular those concerning the conditions of diploma to be fulfilled in order to gain access to the body: the DUMI allows access to the external competition of territorial assistant of artistic education, but not to that of professor. However, I would like to point out that since 2007 and by way of derogation, a system of equivalence allows dumists to enter the profession of territorial professor of artistic education: holders of a DUMI can use this opportunity to take part in the external competition of PTEA, in the specialty of "music". On the other hand, the closed competition for titles and proofs of access to the same framework of employment is well open to territorial assistants in arts education who, on 1 January of the year of the competition, justify at least three years of effective public service. Therefore, there is an exemption from access to category A for some staff members with at least three years of experience. The diplomas which enable this internal competition to take place, particularly in the speciality "music", are specified by decree. The DUMI is one of them. Beyond these issues, I am very attentive to the wishes expressed by the CSFPT and the National Centre for the Territorial Public Service (CNFPT), with which I work on an ongoing basis. It seems to me important to establish clearly the responsibilities of each other: a large part depends on the territorial employers and on their willingness to apply the existing frameworks by opening derogatory competitions. At its January 19th meeting, the FPTFC also raised the issue of the allocation of the new index bonus (NBI) and its impact on some territorial officials. The situation of territorial assistants in arts education could be examined on that occasion. In any case, I work in consensus: if there is a consensus among territorial employers, you can count on my willingness to accompany the reflection on compensation issues. The other issue is that of the compensation system taking into account functions, hardships, expertise and professional commitment (RIFSEEP). For this, it will be more difficult to access your application, as this would require equivalence between the different public functions. However, the State civil service does not provide for a compensation scheme for music teachers. There is therefore a greater obstacle. More generally, to take a step backwards, I am well aware of the wage difficulties associated with the status and the burdens it sometimes causes. It seems to me that we sometimes get confused. The status of civil servants is the heart of our Republic: it is it that defines the rights and duties of public officials, such as the obligation to treat every citizen equally, or the commitment to serve. We believe that it must be preserved. However, the status cannot be used as an excuse for the burdensomeness, the inadequacy of recruitment needs and capabilities, or the lack of attractiveness of certain occupations. It was with this in mind that I opened a conference on wage prospects. In any case, the tools for territorial assistants to become professors exist. It is up to us to mobilize them fully.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u200	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor to put his question, No. 1663, concerning the retirement of municipal police officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u201	This question could be addressed to the Minister of the Interior, but I fully understand that it is of direct interest to the Minister of Transformation and the Public Service. Given the trivialization of petty crime and the continuing terrorist risk, municipal police officers play an increasingly important role in the protection of our citizens. The municipalities, however, find it difficult to recruit: 3000 to 4000 job vacancies remain unfilled. The law on comprehensive security that preserves freedoms adopted in May 2021 further expanded the tasks entrusted to them, without ever addressing the issue of the status of agents. It is necessary to make their profession more attractive. To do so, particular attention should be paid to one of the levers available to achieve this: their retirement. To discuss this subject, I recently met with the municipal police officers of my city, Dole, in the Jura, where I had the pleasure of welcoming you on 19 November last. I would like to commend their work and that of all their colleagues across the country. However, the current method of calculating the retirement pensions of municipal police officers is not interesting enough, especially compared to that of national police officers, gendarmes, prison staff and customs officers. Very concretely, municipal police officers do not receive an additional one every five years, which would allow them to reduce their contribution time. The premiums they receive throughout their careers are not included in the calculation of their pension. Finally, they are excluded from the RIFSEEP, a new public service system that provides additional compensation for assigned responsibilities. As a result, a chief brigadier of the National Police, who retires at the age of 57 – which is fair – receives a probable monthly pension of 2700 euros net while a chief brigadier from the municipal police receives at the same age 994 euros net, or 55% less. So my question is simple: is the Government considering improving the pension system for municipal police officers in our country?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u202	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u203	The problem you raise is a major issue for our society. I want to tell you here how crucial it is for me, as the minister responsible for these matters, to always take into account, for the public service of the State but also for the territorial and hospital function, the specific competences mobilised but also the constraints specific to each profession, such as commitment and hardship. This applies, for example, to the municipal police officers, who carry out essential tasks, whom you have rightly recalled. As you know, we launched, in the form of collective work – with local elected representatives, the minister of the interior of course, but also the deputies – a reflection on the security continuum, that is, the need to link the actions of the national police, the municipal police and the various actors that contribute to our security. In this context, together with the territorial employers, Gérald Darmanin and of course Jacqueline Gourault, we are currently developing various avenues concerning the adaptation of the status and the remuneration but also the training and the delay of access to the information given by the CNFPT, the National Centre of the Territorial Public Service. We wish to assure the municipal police of our full support and gratitude. I should like to point out that your comments include a mistake. The special function allowance – which is a bonus – fits well into the calculation of retirement. Since 2005, public service premiums have been taken into account under the additional public service pension plan within the 20 per cent limit of gross index salary. As municipal police officers are affiliated with this regime, this provision applies well to their situation. As with government officials, the pension they receive includes the amount of premiums. It was important to recall this in order to avoid confusion. You then referred to the so-called enhancement to the fifth, which is taken into account in the calculation of the retirement rights of the staff members who benefit from it, subject to the payment of additional contributions. This advantage, limited to a specific period of time, is linked to the occupation exercised – the criteria are specific to each body and to each job – and concerns, in the case of State officials, those who carry out a duty of law and order. However, this mission is not among those entrusted to the municipal police – unlike the gendarmerie or the national police. Moreover, a national police officer does not automatically benefit from the 5th bonus. Thus, it is not taken into account for years during which the actual exercise of the profession does not include any policing mission. As you can see, these issues need to be addressed as part of a more comprehensive reflection not only on pension plans but also on issues related to municipal police. I would like to point out that it is essential that the municipal police remain fully integrated into the territorial civil service. We are working on this, in particular with the territorial employers whom I meet every fortnight – as I explained to your colleague Descamps earlier – to address all the problems that may arise and because the state must constantly strive to promote the local attractiveness of these professions that are essential to the life of the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u204	Mr David Lorion, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1659, concerning the cane-sugar-energy sector in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u205	Minister, I'm kind of bringing you dessert because my question is about sugar. In fact, beyond sugar, I would like to draw your attention to the future of our cane-sugar-melasse-rhum-energy industry in the overseas countries, particularly on the island of La Réunion. This sector, which accounts for 18,000 jobs, or more than 12% of private agricultural employment, is a cornerstone, both in terms of agricultural and environmental diversification, energy – notably through its biomass, which produces electricity – or in terms of soil protection. Today, the balance of this sector is being broken, which undermines the whole agricultural model of Réunion, because, with the accumulation of concessions provided for by the multiple agreements signed by the European Union, customs duties, particularly for the countries of Latin America, have been abolished. These countries have multiplied their exports of specialty sugar by three or four times to acquire more than 28% of the European market share. Currently, more than 70% of the European market for specialty sugars, known as red sugars, is held by non-European countries. The market share for DROMs, overseas departments and regions continues to decline, reaching 20%. The situation is catastrophic for La Réunion, which was a leader in the European market for special sugars. The answer must be double. On the one hand, the multilateral safeguard clause needs to be updated and on the other hand, an additional €35 million must be provided to ensure the survival of this sector. Decisions are urgently needed because the current five-year cane convention expires in 2022. All the actors gathered around the table must sign a new convention so that the cane cut, as part of the sugar campaign of 2022, can begin. The lack of a just agreement would lead to the slow death of all the farmers in Réunion. Minister, for several years now, all farmers – those who produce sugar cane, but also those who provide local food, who should not be opposed to the former – have doubts about your government's willingness to support this agricultural model in the long term. What can you tell them to reassure them, just a few months from the signing of the new cane-sugar-melasse-energy convention?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u206	The Minister for Transformation and the Public Service has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u207	Your question, which is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, concerns the cane-sugar-rhum-energy sector, which is a pillar of agriculture in Réunion but also a pillar of our food sovereignty. In this regard, you were right to recall that this issue also touched on import issues. This sector provides 18,000 jobs, including 2700 planters. As you know, the Prefect of the Island has led seven plenary meetings of the Local Committee for Agricultural Processing, at the end of which consensus orientations have been defined for the future of the sector, the idea being to increase the added value of cane products. On the other hand, a mission of the General Inspectorate gave rise to a report on the future of overseas sugar production in 2021. We can read the confirmation – I would like to solemnly say this to you – that, for the State, it is important to support the continuation of the activities of a structural sector for the territories. The agreement establishing the conditions for the production and acquisition of canes by the sugar industry expired at the end of 2021. The Government has mandated the Prefect of La Réunion to engage, in conjunction with the regional council and the departmental council, in a process of local consultation for the negotiation of the next convention. This mandate confirms the Government's willingness to maintain strong public support for the sector, since it provides for at least EUR 133 million of this aid per year in European and national appropriations for La Réunion. We are currently preparing the notification to Brussels indicating our willingness to maintain this aid at its current level, in accordance with the provisions of the Finance Act. You mention the need for an exceptional increase in public support for the next cane convention. The question of the level and modalities of such support must be addressed under the auspices of the Prefect of La Réunion, which will allow all the elements of justification to be collected which could be discussed with the European Community authorities responsible for the management of State aid. The discussion is therefore open and our support for the sector is complete. At the same time, with regard to imports – an important issue that you mentioned – the Government, in particular of course its Minister for Agriculture and Food, has stressed, in the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the priority that we give to the file referred to mirror clauses so that products originating from third countries, which do not meet the same environmental standards as those we apply in Europe – in this case on the island of Réunion and throughout France – do not distort competition. Our ambition is to recreate the framework for fair competition based on the reciprocal respect of standards that we apply to our own products and which must therefore also apply to the products we import. As you can see, honourable Member, we are providing financial support, accompanied by strategic support for our sovereignty, by taking a lucid look at the conditions for international trade in this sector, which is of paramount importance to us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u208	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u209	Thank you for your answer. The French Presidency of the Council of the European Union offers us a unique opportunity. We must be certain that competition from countries exporting special sugars in Europe will not simply annihilate the overseas economy, which, unlike these third countries, has no other possibility of exporting. We therefore hope to use this crucial period to support the producers of Reunion cane sugar, the pivotal crop of our agricultural model, and to avoid compromising the entire structure of the sector, which would happen if we lost the opportunity to export to Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u210	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1141.u211	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Debate on the roadmap of the influence of French diplomacy; Debate on the EU strategy for electricity decarbonisation and energy efficiency by 2050. The meeting is adjourned.
