ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u1	The next item is the debate on "Evaluation of the government plan The stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis". This debate was called for by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. At the latter's request, he is held in the Lamartine room so that outside personalities can be interviewed. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. We will begin with a round table in the presence of invited persons, lasting one hour, and then, after hearing an introductory statement from the Government, we will proceed with a new sequence of questions and answers, also lasting one hour. Questions and answers will be limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. For the first phase of the debate, I welcome Mr. Amine Ghenim, lawyer, stickman of Seine-Saint-Denis, Ms. Albertine Munoz, judge of the judicial court of Bobigny, Mr. Grégory Thuizat, departmental secretary of the Syndicat national des enseignements de seconde - Fédération syndicale unitaire (SNES-FSU 93), and Mr. Erwan Guermeur, departmental secretary of the SGP Police 93 unit. I shall now give the floor to each of our guests for a statement of about five minutes. Mr Amine Ghenim has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u2	I thank the Members who have invited us to this debate; I am very happy to participate as a representative of the bar. Just a few weeks ago, a large newspaper published a forum signed by thousands of magistrates and registry staff, entitled "We no longer want justice that does not listen and that chronometers everything", which found a great echo. The text highlighted the great difficulties facing the public service of justice, the deterioration of working conditions, the haste with which justice is rendered, and its dehumanization. This finding is not new. All legal professionals, including lawyers, using their freedom of speech, did not fail to draw the attention of the public authorities to the seriousness of the situation. In a department like the Seine-Saint-Denis, these difficulties are aggravated. You know the peculiarities of this department, particularly its sociology, characterized by great poverty and concentration of populations in difficulty; the need for rights is expressed more than elsewhere. Despite some progress – over the last five years, for example – and reinforcements in magistrates and other personnel, we are far from meeting the pressing needs that are felt in many areas, including the justice of everyday life, family affairs and over-indebtedness – in fact, the problem concerns almost all areas of judicial activity in the courts. The Bobigny Children's Court is the most important in France, it is well known. Yet, even today, in Seine-Saint-Denis, educational measures are only carried out after several months. It's a fact, a reality. Children's judges find it difficult to place young children on a daily basis. Every evening, judges and educators of the court must make considerable efforts in this direction. We are still very far from having the necessary resources in such a department, including for the reception of litigants. A court like Bobigny's cannot be treated like other courts. Local needs are special, including lack of knowledge of the language. It is well known, a large foreign population, not speaking French, is concentrated in this department. Such jurisdiction cannot therefore be studied through the prism of pre-established figures, diagrams or diagrams. For example, while we welcome the proposed construction of a new court, in addition to the existing one, there has been a continuing debate with the real estate agency of the Ministry of Justice. We insisted that the peculiarities of such a territory be taken into account, including in the spaces reserved for lawyers. It is not for our profession that I plead, but for the victims that we attend, the people in need, sometimes in distress, that we advise. We have therefore told this agency that it must reason, for such a department, not on the basis of pre-established technical standards, but by integrating local realities and needs into the architectural design of places of justice. Despite the efforts made, we are far from having the human resources to enable the courts to function fairly smoothly. The reforms carried out over the past several years, particularly in procedural matters, have by no means improved the processing times of cases; On the contrary, they have made access to justice and law more difficult and constitute real obstacles. For example, filing a petition with the labour council has become so complex that it discourages litigants. It's a reality. While the procedure was originally intended to encourage access to the law, to secure the legal path, with successive reforms, it is now an obstacle. What perspectives do the general states of justice draw? They generally follow two orientations which, let us say with firmness and force, are not likely to solve the problems of the public service of justice, especially in a department like ours. The first is to strengthen dematerialization. Of course, we have nothing against openness to modernity, but it must not mean the exclusion of certain populations. It is a reality, it must be understood: in a department like the Seine-Saint-Denis, some still do not know how to use a computer, or do not have access to it. To force these litigants to go through the computer tool to seize a court is to create a factor of discrimination. Modernisation must therefore be accompanied by access to the public service of justice. Understand it well, dematerialization does not solve all problems; We need to hear from a population with growing difficulties and meet its needs. Second focus: mediation and other amicable dispute resolution procedures. We do not object to their development in principle, on the contrary. However, it can be seen that they are now completely diverted from their object, because, in order to compensate for the insufficient number of magistrates and clerks, the aim is at all costs to direct the people to them. Moreover, mediation is not always free. In labour law, when some employees want to apply to the labour council, these benefits are imposed on them, even though they have a cost and the people in need do not always have the means to pay them. In addition, the legal aid office in such a department needs to be strengthened. Despite all the efforts made for some time by successive heads of jurisdiction, we are still far from meeting all the needs. Other realities still...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u3	Master, I invite you to more brevity, otherwise not everyone will have time to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u4	With regard to the number of magistrates, I will quote eloquent, instructive figures from the speech delivered 48 hours ago by the prosecutor of the Republic of Bobigny himself before the Bobigny Commercial Court. While the local prosecutor's office had only 50 judges, it should be at least 188 in its own terms. This reveals the immense need for resources for justice in our department.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u5	Mrs Albertine Munoz, judge of the Bobigny Court, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u6	I also thank you for this very important invitation, since we represent the public services in Seine-Saint-Denis and that a comprehensive approach to the situation is necessary. This one is, I weigh my words, catastrophic. I also thank the batonier for referring to the rostrum signed by the vast majority of French magistrates. I am one of the editors and, to tell you everything, I myself have lived, as a magistrate in Seine-Saint-Denis, the situations described therein. I do not know whether you have read this text, whose examples seem eloquent to me; I'll come back if I have time. If the local situation is catastrophic, it is because of the structural shortage of staff at the Bobigny Court. That is true, the efforts that had been announced have led to an increase in the number of judges, but only in the seat. Above all, this is absolutely not enough, because we were leaving very far away. In Bobigny, we are currently 140 magistrates of the seat; We should be 292 to find ourselves in the European average, which refers. The situation is even more catastrophic for the prosecution, as Mr. The parquet floors are only 53 whereas they should be 188. In concrete terms, the gap between these two figures implies a deterioration in the criminal response provided by the prosecutors of the Republic, despite the results achieved by the police officers in the field. To give a very concrete example – because it is important to say where the courts are – persons who have committed a drug offence may, at the end of their custody, receive a summons to a subsequent hearing by the judicial police officer, or a proposal for an awareness-raising course on the effects of narcotics. But parquet floors can no longer offer time zones for such cases, because everything is complete until December 2022! The only alternative available to magistrates is therefore to request the immediate appearance of these defendants. However, it is supposed to be an exception and only applies to specific offences, in particular to ensure that incarceration takes place at the end of the hearing. We can see it: we have enough tools to respond to crime, but the prosecutor's office cannot afford to use them. It is even forced, in the end, to change the meaning of what immediate appearance should be, particularly in relation to narcotics. This implies a loss of meaning; we live in it, as magistrates of the seat or magistrates of the public prosecutor's office. We wonder what all the work we do is for, knowing that we are working hard – including on weekends and holidays – to try to reduce stocks. Even so, we constantly provide degraded answers, whether in criminal or civil matters. Let's talk about registry officials, as they also suffer from this situation. The idea of the report was to take them into account, in particular to encourage them to stay in the department or to come to it. Two years after the drafting of the report, we find that there is a chronic shortage of staff that is even greater than the number of judges, although it is well known that justice cannot work without registry officials. Returning to the figures, they are currently 565 at the Bobigny Court of Justice. To be fair in the European average – without even trying to be in the best ranked countries – it would take 1240. This chronic shortage of staff means overtime that is not paid. I saw plugins badge at the time when they should have left, then go back to their office, working for free for the state, because they have a professional conscience: we don't do any trade. They also attend hearings that can end at two o'clock in the morning, while they will have to be in the office the next day at nine o'clock, despite the salary they receive. Because it is there, the difference with the magistrates: the salary of registry officials is absolutely not gratifying, having not been reclassified, which also explains the lack of vocations in this profession. We have asked ourselves the question of the impact of the loyalty premium, since it was opened to them. According to the trade union organizations of registry officials, the bonus does not appear to have had any effect, since there are ever more requests for transfer. The second point I wanted to address is, beyond our court, the fact that justice suffers from the lack of public services partners. For this reason, I find it particularly justified that you invited us all four at the same time: we cannot conceive each public service as an autonomous entity, which would have no connection with the others. As magistrates, we find that we are suffering a loss of meaning, since the measures we are taking are not being implemented or carried out: this is not the result of a bad will on the part of our partners, but of the fact that they do not have the means to do so. I am thinking in particular of educational services or the health sector. I will give you a very concrete example: the judges of the children of the Bobigny court issue measures of educational assistance. These are not investments, that is, they are not the most serious measures, but there is an element of danger. When a child judge intervenes, it is because a child is considered to be in danger. However, these measures sometimes take a year to implement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u8	The children's judge has time to review the family, a year later – since the measures are imposed for a year – and to find that she did not see the educator appointed a year earlier, because the educational services do not have the possibility to absorb the number of measures handed down. Let's take another example, which I draw from my own experience as a sentencing judge. In many cases, care obligations are imposed, particularly with regard to domestic violence. These are extremely sensitive issues, for which all partners are mobilizing – and they are right. In the commune of Épinay-sur-Seine, for convicted persons who are subject to a duty of care and who wish to be followed by the medical-psychological centre (CMP), since they do not have the means to be followed by psychologists or liberal psychiatrists, there is a waiting period of one year. I might as well tell you that for me and for these people, the measure that has been pronounced no longer makes sense. One last point which I find even more serious is the fact that the lack of public services has been overcome. I will take another personal example: I was a trial judge in Bobigny, specifically a guardianship judge. Once, I had to issue a protective measure for a lady who had her whole head; I had to pass a measure that violated his freedoms. Why? Because she came crying in front of me and explained to me that if I took away from her the measure of curate that had been pronounced until then, she would find herself without anyone to help her, since there are no more social workers in Bobigny. I find the situation extremely worrying: it is clearly the rule of law that is threatened, since all the public services of Seine-Saint-Denis are in arrears and are undersized.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u9	Mr Grégory Thuizat, departmental secretary of the SNES-FSU 93 trade union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u10	I would also like to thank Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament for this invitation which allows teaching, education and guidance staff to be represented by my voice under the SNES-FSU 93, and which also allows to give a tangible subject to the reality of the public service of education in the Seine-Saint-Denis department. The report of the 2018 fact-finding mission on the evaluation of the State's action in the exercise of its sovereign missions in the Seine-Saint-Denis had the merit of reaffirming a form of breach of equality in a department which nevertheless combines derogations. With regard to education, the observation is without appeal: in Seine-Saint-Denis, 60% of schoolchildren and schoolgirls and 62% of students are enrolled in a priority education network (REP). One sentence, taken from the report, had attracted the full attention of the teaching, education and guidance staff: "...the least well equipped of the Parisian establishments is better equipped than the most equipped of the institutions of the Seine-Saint-Denis. This was not new, since in 1998 already, following an unprecedented mobilization of staff, the government, which had found both the specific nature of the department and the delay in terms of human and financial resources allocated to it, had announced the recruitment of 3000 additional posts. Since then, it has been a slow deterioration and slow bleeding of hours that we have seen in the department, whether it is the hourly means or the means of personnel devolved to the public education service. It is true that the deployment of the doubling measure of the classes of CP-CE1 and the large section of kindergarten in REP and REP+ (reinforced priority education network), since 2018, has led to the creation of posts. However, this is not a specific measure for the Seine-Saint-Denis. In addition to the fact that these duplications in themselves pose difficulties in the department, the resources allocated to classes not affected by this measure to school directors, schemes such as special support networks for pupils in difficulty (RASED), secondary schools, life and school inclusion, or social and health centres, these resources have been largely insufficient, by decompensation, in Seine-Saint-Denis. Since 2019 and the announcements of the plan L'État plus fort en Seine-Saint-Denis, in particular its part relating to national education, on which we can go back in detail – in particular four measures announced on 31 October 2019 by Prime Minister Édouard Philippe – the national education staff has repeatedly mobilized to warn about this lack of means that affects all the professions of national education, not to mention the additional difficulties associated with the health crisis, the outcome of which remains very uncertain. This is the reason why, very often, the interunion of education in Seine-Saint-Denis asks what it calls an emergency plan for education in Seine-Saint-Denis. In the parliamentary report, two particularly salient developments had attracted the attention of staff. The first is the existence, in fact, of a method of exclusion from school, which took the form of the absence of teachers in front of the pupils. The second is the failure of the priority education policy to reduce the gap in success between the institutions benefiting from it and the others – in the Seine-Saint-Denis department in any case. Of course, we have considered these two problems – the trade unions of Seine-Saint-Denis in particular. It is true that the continuity of education is still not ensured in Seine-Saint-Denis, for mechanical reasons: the departmental direction of the services of national education, at the level of the rectorate of Créteil, answers us very often that the replacements of less than fifteen days, "we do not know how to do". So there is an almost logistical problem. Beyond that, it is extremely difficult – I insist on that – to obtain tangible figures and data on the state of non-replacement in the Academy of Créteil and especially in Seine-Saint-Denis. At the last academic technical committee (CTA), the FSU asked the Rector of the Academy of Créteil for figures on unreplaced posts; he was opposed to an end of non-receiving. Knowing the percentage of teacher replacement in Seine-Saint-Denis is not an end in itself; What matters is the school time of the students, which they cannot catch up with. This loss had been quantified in the report: for the children of the department, it represented the loss of one year over the entire school year. The reality of the Seine-Saint-Denis, still today and especially in a period of health crisis, are vacant posts; But this reality predates the pandemic crisis. They are also unreplaced personnel; We received multiple alerts in the department's institutions, some teams were exsanguous. And for good reason! Mrs. and Mr. Members will certainly be interested in this information: at the end of the 2021 calendar year, the rectorate of Créteil was no longer in a budgetary position to ensure replacements due to lack of appropriations. It had reached its employment ceiling, meaning that dozens of hours, hundreds of hours, were lost by students in many schools in the department, in which teachers were not replaced. It was nothing short-term. A decision of the Council of State of 27 January 1988 imposes on the Ministry of National Education "...the legal obligation to ensure the teaching of all compulsory subjects in the curricula [...]". This means that the State, failing to fulfil this obligation, derogates, and that this derogation constitutes a fault. I could give specific examples; Thus, a request for a hearing from the Collège Jean-Lolive to Pantin on 17 November 2021, in which the teachers pointed out with the parents of pupils that by 21 October 832 hours of teaching had already been lost and not replaced – they were long replacements, no fifteen-day replacements: 158 hours in French, 83 hours in history-geography, 141 hours in English, 83 hours in German. Five teachers, who were absent on a predictable basis – for parental leave or maternity leave – had not been replaced; two third classes had not had classes since the beginning of the school year; sixth graders did not have French teachers, history-geography teachers, or English teachers. More recently, another example also gives thought. In the school city Henri-Wallon, which brings together a college and a high school in Aubervilliers, on January 18, 2022 the staff wrote to Mr. the Rector of the Academy of Creteil to mean that since November 8 – nine weeks – a teacher in English and a teacher in history-geography had not been replaced. Classes were therefore without English classes and without history-geography courses; a documentalist teacher had also not been replaced for five weeks; four students received no accompaniment from AESH (accompanied by students with disabilities), despite a notification from the Departmental House of Disabled Persons (MDPH). There are, of course, chronic understaffing in school life, which colleagues also denounced. In a decade – as the report had shown in 2018 – a very large population increase is therefore far from being offset by the resources allocated, both time and human. The delay in building, which is sensitive to colleges, is particularly critical for high schools. Some quite eloquent figures: between 2011 and today – it has been calculated over a decade – there is an additional 11309 college students in the department, equivalent to about 20 colleges, and an additional 8780 high school students, excluding post-bac. At the same time, since the 2018 school year, across the entire territory this time – but we will see the translation of it into the reality of the Seine-Saint-Denis – almost 8000 posts have been abolished in the second degree, equivalent to 175 colleges scratched from the map. This decline in resources, which is a government choice, continued, particularly in the department's colleges: minus twenty-two full-time equivalents (FTEs), thus minus twenty-two posts at the beginning of the 2021 school year; minus 12 FTEs scheduled for re-entry 2022. Today, there is nothing to distinguish, in terms of time allocations – for the direct benefit of pupils, is understood – a priority education college of another institution. This is an extremely sensitive point. The same applies to multi-professional teams: one could also talk about school medicine, health and social workers, institutions discovered in the field of nursing or social workers. The breakdown of equality, which has been reported and indicated by the parliamentary report, is more than ever a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u11	Mr Erwan Guermeur, Departmental Secretary of the SGP Police 93 Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u12	I will concentrate, for my part, on the implementation of the plan L'État Fort en Seine-Saint-Denis in the national police, after the announcement of three main measures: the granting of a loyalty bonus of 10000 euros to public officials practising in Seine-Saint-Denis, the creation of two districts of republican reconquest (QRR) and the renovation of the buildings. The announcement of the grant of the €10000 premium initially led to an increase in the number of applications of civil servants from departments bordering the Seine-Saint-Denis, i.e. Val-d'Oise, Hauts-de-Seine and Paris. We concluded that this measure had achieved its objective. Unfortunately, its effect has not continued and we have not seen the same appeal to the department in the following personnel movements. Perhaps this decrease is due to a lack of communication from the administration. The bonus could have created a real appeal for the Seine-Saint-Denis, but the agents were too little informed about its implementation and therefore did not submit their applications. I would add, with regard to the Paris administrative region, that the movements are complicated because it is difficult to bring agents to the Seine-Saint-Denis. This is essentially an internal management problem between the various directorates. However, relatively simple solutions exist even beyond the department. The blocking of agents within an administrative region is of a statutory nature and linked to promotion. As everyone knows, the supervision of police officers is a major problem in the Seine-Saint-Denis. Our young mentors are sometimes poorly trained and statutory blockages do not attract experienced officials. However, we are regularly asked about the way in which the territorial loyalty premium is applied. Information is still not circulating and candidates wishing to work in the department are rare to present themselves. A few numbers now. Despite the implementation of the plan L'État Fort en Seine-Saint-Denis, the agents of the management and enforcement corps (CEA) – the police officers you see daily on the public road – rose from 3664 in 2015 to 3637 in January 2022, thirty fewer, while the department experienced a strong population growth during the period, with all the difficulties that this represents. It is estimated that 300 additional police officers would be required to meet the police needs of the Seine-Saint-Denis, whether it is the maintenance of law and order in the neighbourhoods or simply the primary mission of the police, the assistance to the people who composed the 17th, with the patrol car. These figures, which have changed little, give the impression that there is an unsurpassable ceiling for jobs in Seine-Saint-Denis. Are the department's security issues really taken into account? In view of the increase in the population, I repeat, 300 additional agents would now be needed in Seine-Saint-Denis! The population in 2013 was 1552482; It increased to 1632,677 inhabitants in 2021. It should be added all the inhabitants of the Seine-Saint-Denis who are not registered and who circulate in the department as soon as a conflict erupts at the international level. Their presence is then observed in specific areas, such as the Quatre-Chemins district in Pantin or the Six-Routes district in La Courneuve, and results in trafficking of all kinds – forgery, smuggling. These phenomena should be better taken into account, which is not possible with the numbers at our disposal. Two QRRs were created in Saint-Ouen and La Courneuve. Within each of them, the police focus on one sector, often at the expense of other sectors. The size of the units responsible for dealing with the influx of arrests in these particular sectors is not always well calibrated, which poses problems in judicial matters, in the management of police custody and in some cases in the operation of the entire service. Indeed, when a specific unit is created to deal with a theme, all the other units of the police station are in fact left out. Officers responsible for the management of daily procedures, including police custody, are no longer in sufficient numbers and have to deal with a very large workload. But an officer who works under constant stress has only one idea in mind: to ask for his transfer to a service where he will work more quietly and where he will have the means to carry out his missions. The additional work required of the units results in the departure of officials from certain police stations. In a QRR, the creation of a specific unit to better deal with a problem does not always achieve its objective. On the other hand, it results in a load transfer to the detriment of other units. These specific units, known as the Territorial Contact Brigades (BTC), are composed of 25 civil servants, but do not work throughout the department. Given the employment ceiling I mentioned earlier, the creation of QRR in Saint-Ouen, La Courneuve and Aulnay-sous-Bois deprived the small constituencies of the department of reinforcements. When twenty-five civil servants are sent to Saint-Ouen or La Courneuve, twenty-five less civil servants are sent to another electoral district. As a result of the creation of the BTCs, we have seen a previously non-existent crime in small communes in the department. The creation of units was not anticipated and the police stations that had to accommodate them did not always have the capacity to do so. This situation has created tensions in the services. I am thinking in particular of the working conditions of the agents, which have deteriorated. The issue of well-being at work should, however, be predominant in the national police. The superimposed security policies – yesterday, the neighbourhood territorial units (UTECs) and the priority security zones (ZSPs); Today, the QRRs – which are applied on a forced march, without anticipating, put on the front of the stage units dedicated to the implementation of the security policy without worrying about the consequences that these new structures will have on the lives of the services and agents that make up them. I therefore oppose the implementation of security policies to the desire to retain agents in a department where, in the words of former Prime Minister Édouard Philippe in a speech to the prefecture of the Seine-Saint-Denis, "everything is out of the ordinary". Working conditions, access to training, the state of the premises and work cycles to reconcile work and personal life should be the top priority. A good officer at work is a successful officer and therefore faithful to the position he occupies. With regard to the building announcements, the construction of two new police stations, in Epinay-sur-Seine and in Aulnay-sous-Bois, by 2023, has not yet started although it has been announced for a long time, even before the plan L'État fort en Seine-Saint-Denis. Efforts have been made in recent years to renovate some premises, but many buildings remain at the limit of unsanitaryness. Priority has been given to the renovation of detention facilities, which accommodate detainees, which is understandable. However, when the premises dedicated to the lives of staff members are not renovated, staff members assume that the administration does not take into account their working conditions and are tempted to request their transfer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u13	Please conclude, Mr. Guermeur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u14	Well-being at work is also based on benevolent management. However, it has not been the case since the continuation of the policy of the figure. We see this today with the introduction of flat-rate fines: they should have remained an additional tool to combat drug trafficking; Instead, the agents now have an obligation to distribute a number of them. The aim of this tool was originally good, since it was a matter of combating drug trafficking by multiplying all-round actions. The device is now misguided. The policy of the figure is a disaster when it leads to the misappropriation of useful instruments. Well-being at work is, at last, about well-being in private life. Not having to worry about finding a place in a crèche at unusual times and having access to a dwelling worthy of his name, in an area that does not pose any difficulty if his status as a police officer is revealed, are, among other things, two pressing expectations of the police officers of Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u15	We come to the questions. The floor is open to Mr Stéphane Peu, from the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, at the initiative of this debate. I will then give the floor to François Cornut-Gentille, whose report has been mentioned several times.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u16	Our group has indeed been at the initiative of this debate on the evaluation of the government plan The stronger state in the Seine-Saint-Denis and I would like to recall the reason, which is simple. We are a number here to be deputies of this department and to have worked closely with François Cornut-Gentille in the preparation of his information report on the evaluation of the State's action in the exercise of its sovereign missions in Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u17	You quote Mr Cornut-Gentille all the time, but I have co-signed this relationship with him!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u18	Yes, I am very sorry: the report by François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokouendo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u19	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u20	This report has not been an umpteenth report to set up a cabinet and we are pleased to have been partially heard by the Government. Not only was its publication followed by the speech of Prime Minister Édouard Philippe that you recalled, but it led to the stronger state plan in Seine-Saint-Denis. Members of this department are, however, well placed to know that it is not enough to announce specific measures and that their effective implementation must be closely monitored over time. The various interventions we have just heard have underlined this, and the Kokouendo-Cornut-Gentille report already said so: everything is not just the question of means, but this question is a prerequisite. The many observers mentioned in the report acknowledged the importance of the funds spilled over to the department in the context of the derogatory policies – those of the National Agency for Urban Renewal (ANRU) in particular – but also found that the common law policies were so discriminatory in Seine-Saint-Denis that no derogatory policy could compensate for the breach of republican equality suffered by the department in terms of staffing and resources. It's not just the means, but the means are a prerequisite. I will not repeat the examples that have just been given to us, especially on the police, but they are eloquent. As the population of the department continues to grow, there are now fewer per capita police officers than there were seven years ago and even fifteen years ago. In the area of justice and education, the Seine-Saint-Denis is also the least well-known department of France. It is particularly revolting when we know that the inhabitants of this popular department believe in the Republic, symbolized by the school, in which they place all their hope, by justice, because there are many conflicts, and by the police, which ensure security and a dignified and peaceful life for our fellow citizens. When the three pillars of the rule of law and the Republic are so fragile and ill-treated – I think we can use this word – then the Republic runs the risk of being ill-loved in a territory where it is yet the most expected and most hoped for. By placing this issue on the agenda of our Assembly, at the end of the legislature and at the dawn of a new one, we want to tell the Government that we recognize its efforts and its listening after the publication of the Kokouendo-Cornut-Gentille report, but that we will ensure, whatever the next majority, that the announcements that followed the report do not translate into sounding and stumbling measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u21	Mr. François Cornut-Gentille, rapporteur of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u22	I want to thank the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left for putting this important debate on our agenda. This debate is important for the Seine-Saint-Denis, a department in great pain and difficulty, but also for the Republic. I believe that these dysfunctions threaten not only the rule of law, but also the Republic itself and live it together. It is therefore essential to be able to mobilize and, as Stéphane Peu has said, to do in continuity. As a result of other reports on this issue, ours has caused some sort of a salutary click, but judging by tonight's interventions, the task is so heavy! I do not try anyone, nor the governments that have preceded, nor the present, nor those that will follow, but I see that we are facing a phenomenon of extreme complexity, which sums up all the difficulties in France. There are good wills everywhere, but also absolutely colossal inertias. I will therefore go quite in the direction of Stéphane Peu: the objective must be, beyond the political divisions and the postures of each other, to continue the work that has been started. It is about the future of the Seine-Saint-Denis, but the stakes go far beyond this territory. I would nevertheless like to ask the speakers a few questions. From your point of view – police, magistrate, teacher – what kind of mobilization would make things happen? Of course, the action of the trade unions is indispensable, but the problem is so wide that action is needed at all levels, because it is clear that traditional mobilisations do not work: we need a mobilization of Parliament, but also of local elected representatives and officials who have a sense of public service. Then – this is my second question – what do you think is the priority of priorities in your respective areas? Finally, how do you view the central issue of turnover, raised more by the police representative than by other speakers? I know that if there was a magic solution, it would have been found a moment ago, but what approach would you take on this really crucial topic for the future of public service in Seine-Saint-Denis?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u23	Mr Erwan Guermeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u24	I was talking to you earlier about the security policy thousandsheet to which each government adds a new layer – yesterday the SPAs, today the QRRs. Every new mechanism becomes a priority and the police no longer know what needs to be treated as a priority. The result is a certain loss of sense of the profession: there is no longer any trust in the agents who occupy the field, who know their constituency very well and who know very well what topics need to be dealt with. We don't need anyone to know that there's drug trafficking in this or that place, and we know very well how this type of problem is solved: it's not by calling ten times a day the same drug dealer that one completely shuts down a point of sale. You have to trust the police, you have to hit all the azimuts and you have to occupy the ground; There is no secret to this: there must be sufficient numbers of staff. But in the Seine-Saint-Denis – as I said earlier – in 2022 there are thirty fewer policemen than in 2015: it is very talking! I'm not here to oppose the forces between them, but I'm going to take an example. The presence of a support unit – a police vehicle in charge of occupying a given sector – is essential for effective action: people need the police to be present in the neighbourhoods, as it must show that it is at work to combat drug trafficking or to intervene when a series of violence occurs in a sector. However, this type of unit cannot be entirely devoted to this task: it must respond to the calls of the Emergency Police and to the various complaints that must be dealt with on an ongoing basis. I could also refer to the LACs – anti-criminality brigades – but I will not mention all the units. We do not have the resources to deal with all the missions that come to us at the same time. You ask what is the priority: if there is one, it is recruitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u25	Mr Grégory Thuizat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u26	I will try briefly to provide some answers. First of all, in national education, the ability of the administration to implement all the provisions which would enable the Seine-Saint-Denis to carry out the public education service better requires, in my opinion, a transparency which does not currently exist with regard to the figures. Earlier, in my opening speech, I cited an example of this which relates to the question of replacement: it seems to me that any citizen, any citizen has the right to know the figures of replacement and non-replacement, and to demand on the part of national education the most absolute transparency in this matter. This is the Seine-Saint-Denis, where the problem is particularly sensitive, but this is the case in any department, whatever it may be. Transparency is therefore one of the foundations of the government's response to national education. You then ask what is the priority. In national education, and in particular in Seine-Saint-Denis, the highest priority is undoubtedly the reception and health of the school public. Indeed, the department has only one doctor for every 12,000 or 13,000 students, as noted in the information report, and there is a shortage of social and health personnel: fifty nursing posts were not filled or discovered in October 2021, according to an inter-union count, and twenty-two secondary schools did not have a social worker, not to mention the dozens of posts that should obviously be created to meet the needs of the department. In general, the follow-up of students with special educational needs (SEPs) is essential, whatever they may be. In the area of school inclusion, the Seine-Saint-Denis department, for example, has a very large number of notifications from the CDMH, and it would take at least a doubling of the positions of reference teachers to ensure better monitoring of the schooling of these pupils. There should also be an increase in the number of places available in specialised institutions, ITEP – therapeutic, educational and pedagogical institutes – and EREA – regional institutions of adapted education – because there is a shortage of them. There is therefore a whole section of national education, the one that links school and the protection of children, which remains if not unthinked, at least undersized in Seine-Saint-Denis. Finally, with regard to turnover, the incentive premium, known as loyalty, was a gesture thought out as strong by the department for the staff who were eligible for it. Nevertheless, the question of access to housing in the Paris region remains crucial for the agents of the Seine-Saint-Denis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u28	... and the FSU, for example, requests the doubling of the residency allowance for state officials. In addition, there are agents and agents who, although directly in contact with the public in the context of national education, are not eligible for the premium; I am thinking, for example, of the administrative staff who follow the students at DSDEN – the Directorate of the Department of National Education – and others.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u29	Mrs Albertine Munoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u30	In my turn, to bounce back on the issue of priorities, I make exactly the same observation as Mr Guermeur: in justice today everything becomes a priority. There is much talk of criminal law and repression, but I also want to talk about civil justice; The Seine-Saint-Denis is a department that has many fragile inhabitants and is in demand of justice: the population needs to be supported and the balance restored. This is the case in particular with respect to rental and also with regard to over-indebtedness; But at present, a resident of the 93 who is in a situation of over-indebtedness waits two years before going to the protection court, which is completely unacceptable. Therefore, I cannot answer your question and tell you what the priority is in the area of justice, because everything becomes a priority. As to what kind of mobilization could be effective, this is also a matter of concern to us. That is why we have published a forum in a very media newspaper: we feel that our hierarchy does not have the capacity to respond to our demands. It can also be pointed out that the Supreme Council of the Judiciary (CSM), in particular, has no budgetary autonomy, whereas it is the body that represents us, the magistrates; In France, the appropriations allocated to justice are voted by the Members. So I want to turn to you and say, "We need you! " Justice needs you to vote for budget increases in order to have additional staff, be it magistrates or registry officers. Otherwise, we're not gonna make it! God knows how much we return the problem in all senses – organizations are constantly being thought and rethought – but again, our situation makes me think exactly what Mr. Guermeur described in the police: when we strengthen a service that is in great pain, we do so by depriving another service of its staff, which creates a vicious circle. We therefore absolutely need additional resources. All this also raises the question of what kind of public service we want in France: what we are all saying is that public services are being emptied of their meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u31	Mr Amine Ghenim has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u32	I would like to answer Mr Cornut-Gentille's question, which asks what we can do and what kind of mobilisation could bear fruit. I think the exchange we have just had, for half an hour, is really revealing what we could do. In my view, the solution is first of all a break with the current mode of governance: we must definitely take into account the opinions and proposals formulated by the actors on the ground, because we cannot continue to apply decrees issued the same day for the next day, as is the case in the field of justice. For example, with regard to legal aid, three decrees have been issued over the last two years and they have had to be implemented the day after their publication, despite everything they involved in training and informing civil servants, lawyers and all the actors involved – we have at our disposal a pool of associations and trade unions. A modern and democratic State is a State that is attentive to the concerns of citizens and individuals on a daily basis, and that is what we must strive to achieve. As long as we continue to work according to technocratic approaches and completely detached from the realities we live daily, we will not make progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u33	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo, rapporteur of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u34	I also thank the GDR Group, as my colleagues have done, for having been at the initiative of this discussion. I am very pleased that the report we drafted, my colleague François Cornut-Gentille and myself, made so much noise and aroused so much interest – an interest felt by all because it was the first such report. He has also created many expectations and many hopes; They are commensurate with the impatience of our fellow citizens with regard to the measures that must be taken, which they hope will be immediately applicable and implemented. I think, however, that time must be given and I also wanted to tell you how interested I was in your various interventions, both enlightening and engaged. I therefore thank you for these words and hope that they will allow us to continue our work on these subjects. We asked you how it would be possible to bring about a comprehensive and harmonious solution more quickly, which can satisfy you and our fellow citizens in the territories at the same time. Our report is a political contribution on this issue, but it is clear that you yourself have difficulties in proposing specific solutions. It is therefore together that we must build the right solutions. Mrs Munoz, you said earlier that the state services and other political response services, namely the communities – communes, departments and regions – may not be working together enough, and that this may also explain the delays in dealing with certain problems. My question is simple: you who come from the field, can you tell us how this work could be improved, whether in the areas of justice, health, education or the police, so that we can move forward on these issues that are important to you and provide them with concrete answers?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u35	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u36	First of all, I would like to thank the GDR Group and our colleagues Kokouendo and Cornut-Gentille for their report. I have had the honour of sitting in the Chamber for twenty years and all the deputies of Seine-Saint-Denis who have succeeded them, regardless of their political colour, are shouting that in our department there is no republican equality. This phenomenon does not date from the present legislature: there is no republican equality in the Seine-Saint-Denis, it is a vain word and there is no need to complain about the drifts that develop there, whether linked to delinquency, fundamentalism or other phenomena. Indeed, it is the lack of republican equality that leads to what we hear this evening: heroic and desperate officials, because they are never heard, and parliamentarians who are sometimes somewhat tired of repeating the same things. This time, two unelected deputies in Seine-Saint-Denis finally explain that our department is badly treated, badly loved by the Republic, which I thank them for. Moreover, it is unlikely that this type of debate can not take place more often and longer. I trust these colleagues because we, elected from Seine-Saint-Denis, are never heard, to the point of feeling like we are crying. We are not crying, we see a desperate reality for all those who live in this department, work there and get high for him. Mr Kokouendo, the problem really is not the lack of work between local authorities, or between them and the state. From my first election in Seine-Saint-Denis, at the age of 33, I learned one thing: we are so in a state of silence, to say it politely, that political differences no longer matter. Although we are political opponents, we treat subjects because we have the same problems and we have no choice. Turning to priorities, I think the first is to retain public servants and therefore to meet their housing needs – I rely on my long experience as mayor to make this observation. How can I ask a teacher arriving from La Réunion to stay in the department in three days, without being able to accommodate him? While prices are implausible, we must promote...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u37	Please conclude, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u38	I finish with a sentence, Madam President. The same problem arises for lawyers, and I'm not even talking about the police. As for the clerks, Mrs Munoz, I also know some of them who are in implausible situations because they live in the worst cities of the Seine-Saint-Denis and are recognized in court. Here's the priority. Everything else is just a matter of means and will. Three years ago, we said we wanted at least the same thing as the other departments. That is still not the case in all areas, as you have just testified.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u39	Mr Stéphane Testé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u40	As a Member of Parliament and member of the Clichy-sous-Bois municipal team, I had a very brief question to ask our stakeholders. With the mayor of Clichy-sous-Bois, I plead for a rapprochement on the same premises of the police and justice, in order to improve the processing times of the files. We advocate, on an experimental basis, the presence of magistrates in police stations. What do you think?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u41	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u42	Without being an elected member of the Seine-Saint-Denis, I do not deny the worrying intensity of the difficulties encountered by certain public services in this department. In other territories, there are also pockets of poverty where public services are absent, even if it is on a smaller scale than that of a department. In this regard, I have listened with interest to your testimony on the importance of transparency between public officials and public officials. In my opinion, this request for transparency reflects a need for trust in the exercise of the legitimate functions dictated by the authority: these functions must be able to be applied intelligently on the ground by any official, far from the technocratic vision you denounce. Is my interpretation fair? For you, does transparency mean trust in social dialogue and in the solutions deployed by the various professionals, in agreement with their interlocutors of the state? As for the means to be allocated to public services, it is an abrupt question that is not debated. However, a legitimate policy in one department should not blur all the efforts to be made in the other territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u43	Mr Amine Ghenim has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u44	For my part, I see no problem with the presence of magistrates in the police stations. However, as Mrs Munoz will be able to tell you better than I am, magistrates are not even able to do their daily work because they are being asked too much. Meetings between police officers, magistrates and lawyers could therefore be envisaged, but the problem was that magistrates and clerks were crushed by the number of cases to be dealt with. How, in these circumstances, can time be set aside for such initiatives? If urgent measures are not taken to provide the public service with adequate resources, the difficulties will persist. In fact, we were very surprised to hear the seal keeper explain that justice had been repaired through the recruitment of a few hundred or a few thousand contractors. It's not serious. We feel like we live in another world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u45	Mr Erwan Guermeur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u46	There would be a lot to say, but I want to go back to the sense of the police job. A policeman's question about what he's doing means that this regal mission is a big problem. Due to the political instrumentalization of the police institution, sometimes for electoral purposes, the police officer feels more like he is responding to an order than doing his job with confidence. The word "regalian" has come back several times. Many of the communes of Seine-Saint-Denis created their municipal police. The elected representatives are responding to a significant demand for security from the population. In fact, the State is disengaged from its legitimate mission to ensure the safety of all citizens. I understand that we should not talk too much about working conditions, but it is a key theme for the public servants I represent. In this respect, I have a thought for the twelve colleagues who have put an end to their lives since the beginning of the year, even if they were not practising in Seine-Saint-Denis: twelve in a month, this means that there is a difficult problem in the police institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u47	Mrs Albertine Munoz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u48	We're talking a lot about suffering at work, about our lack of resources. Let us be clear: most people who work in the public service, especially in the Seine-Saint-Denis, do so by vocation. It's not about crying about our fate. We cry because we wanted to serve the state to finally realize that we are ashamed. For my part, I would really like to talk about this feeling. We are ashamed to be judges in Seine-Saint-Denis, to do justice as we do. I would very much like to go to the police stations – and I think my colleagues in the prosecutor's office would also be delighted. In fact, we do not even have time to participate in the partnership meetings, which are nevertheless fundamental because they would allow us to recreate ties and, above all, trust. Our partners and the public no longer have confidence. We have said that we understand that the French no longer have confidence in justice. However, it is very serious for magistrates to make such a finding.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u49	Mr Grégory Thuizat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u50	The problem comes not from a lack of synergies between local, territorial and state authorities, although the timetables may not always be very well aligned due to certain uses, but rather from under-dimensions. Let us take one of the four measures dedicated to the education component of the stronger state plan in Seine-Saint-Denis: the allocation of an additional €20 million to support public investment, at a rate of €2 million per year for ten years. The State puts on the table a large sum but, finally, low in comparison with what local authorities put on the table. The Seine-Saint-Denis departmental council will invest 1 billion euros between 2021 and 2030 in an eco-college plan to build eight colleges and renovate forty-three. The under-sizing of the State's resources is obvious. Let's go to transparency. It would be a matter of making a stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis or, to use an expression that is often the same, of "more state" and "better state". In this case, perhaps we should start by not weakening it by taking measures that are in the press kit submitted on October 31, 2019. When I discovered them, I fell from my chair. Among the four measures of the education component of the plan L'État plus fort en Seine-Saint-Denis, was the extension to the entire department of the scheme of the association Le Choix de l'École. However, it is a false nose of the Institut Montaigne, of which it is known that it is not its policy to make an abundance of public services. It should be noted that this association has not published any annual reports on its activities and funding since 2015. On her website, she states that 50% of the colleges in Seine-Saint-Denis have hosted a contract teacher of the program. It is not by paving the way for officials to private interests that the state will be strengthened in Seine-Saint-Denis, even if the academic authorities of Créteil defend themselves, indicating that they are about thirty contractual staff. Again, transparency is rather weak. In any event, the "more state" does not involve recourse to private interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u51	Madam, gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your participation in our work. Before the next sequence, I briefly suspend the session.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u52	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u53	I am very pleased to be with you tonight to address a topic as important as the future of this beautiful department, the Seine-Saint-Denis. It is a dynamic department, young and full of resources too long untapped – I was even going to say that they have been untapped for several decades. We prefer a new ambition to great speeches. For almost five years, we have translated this ambition of the President of the Republic into concrete measures, commensurate with the legitimate stakes and expectations of this territory. Parliamentary proceedings resulting from the report of MPs Rodrigue Kokouendo and François Cornut-Gentille have made it possible to adapt the government's response. The interministerial work on the ten-year action plan led by the State in Seine-Saint-Denis is part of the continuation of the commitments made by the President of the Republic on 22 May 2018 concerning the priority neighbourhoods of the city's policy (QPV). This continuity reflects our political commitment to these neighbourhoods, this department and its inhabitants, since all these actions have been carried out and strengthened to put these territories back at the heart of the republican pact. Through the Interministerial Committee of Cities (CIV) held on 29 January during the health crisis, we wanted to go further to ensure the attractiveness of neighbourhoods and the emancipation of every resident living there. To make the Seine-Saint-Denis attractive, we must improve the living environment of its inhabitants, which obviously requires sufficient public services and experienced officials. On 25 April 2019, the President of the Republic announced the deployment of a network of multi-purpose public services, the France Services houses. To date, the Seine-Saint-Denis accounts for fifteen of these spaces, including three itinerants, located in Noisy-le-Grand, Sevran, Saint-Denis, Bagnolet and Saint-Ouen. In addition, in order to retain the deconcentrated service agents of the State, a specific premium of 10000 euros paid after five years of service has been introduced to make this territory an attractive stage in their career paths. A stronger state must respond to health issues related to access to care. This is why the plan plans to support investment in hospital development and the installation of heavy equipment, such as the Grand Paris Nord university hospital project, the modernisation of hospital emergencies in order to improve the reception of patients by 2024 and the Grand Paris Nord-Est hospital group (GHT) project. In order to strengthen the attractiveness of the department, particularly through its medical network, we have introduced a support for the installation of collective working structures, of which twelve multi-professional health centres have been able to benefit. A mission to support municipal health centres has also been launched to make them more accessible and efficient. To this challenge of attractiveness is added the reduction of social and territorial inequalities in health, which was the subject of numerous measures in 2020 and 2021, starting with the commitment of €10 million dedicated to the deployment of Health Care Access Permanents (PHSIs) – of which everyone knows that they benefit the most vulnerable public – in hospitals. A commitment to improving the attractiveness of the Seine-Saint-Denis is also a guarantee of the safety and tranquility of its inhabitants. The Ministry of the Interior has committed itself to significantly increasing, during the quinquennium, the number of police officers present throughout the department, as well as throughout the country – I recall that the national objective is to create an additional 10,000 police and gendarmerie stations. In this context, the Seine-Saint-Denis has benefited from the reinforcement of 337 police officers from the supervisory and enforcement corps. Since the arrival of Gérald Darmanin at the Ministry of the Interior, two republican reconquest districts have been created in the department, in Saint-Ouen and in La Courneuve, to strengthen the existing teams: seventy-one posts of civil servants have been created. While the plan also provided for the deployment of an additional 100 judicial police officers (JPOs) in 2020 and 2021, it was finally 133 JPOs who would strengthen the workforce thanks to the Minister's action: the objective had therefore been far exceeded. At the same time, because we must drain what can constitute a pool of recruitment of traffickers of all kinds and separatists, we are taking decisive action in favour of specialized prevention – a competence which, I remind you, falls within the remit of the departments and not of the State, even if the latter has supported them. The Seine-Saint-Denis was not left behind, since of the 600 educators and mediators trained in specialized prevention, 72 were in this department. The resulting prevention battalions have begun to be deployed in five communes. Because the counterpart of security is strengthened justice, we also act for more present and effective justice, devoting the necessary financial resources to it. The project to extend the judicial tribunal in Bobigny is moving forward: it will be ready for 2025, as the Prime Minister undertook. The objective of creating thirty-five posts of registrars, representing an increase of 15 per cent in the number of staff, and the continuation of 12 additional posts of magistrates in the courts of the department was also maintained. Finally, to conclude on the issue of attractiveness – at least as regards the stronger state plan in Seine-Saint-Denis, because the list is far from exhaustive – we have considerably increased the means dedicated to urban renewal. Of the 12 billion in the new national urban renewal programme (NPNRU), 2 billion euros have been allocated to the Seine-Saint-Denis. We have also strengthened the fight against unworthy habitat by recruiting five additional health inspectors and appointing a specific sub-prefect in 2020 to deal with this issue. Of course, we have the humility to recognize that the issue of unworthy housing in the department is not resolved, but we have at least begun to commit significant means to reverse the dynamics and restore dignity to its inhabitants. The second point I wish to raise concerns emancipation. Everyone here, I believe, will agree that it goes through two levers: education and employment. We are first of all convinced that the educational success of children and young people is a very strong pillar of emancipation policy. Here again, we are acting to ensure that the republican promise is fulfilled, thanks to a quality educational offer – absolutely necessary in the territories in difficulty – taking into account territorial specificities. This is why, in Seine-Saint-Denis, all classes of CP and CE1 in REP or REP +, as well as all classes of large section of kindergarten located in REP +, were split. This measure concerns more than 30,000 children in the department. Of the teachers we interviewed about this measure, 82% noted better dynamics in the classroom and noted the improvement in learning conditions. Each of you, I believe, has had the opportunity to see it in his constituency, as I was able to do during my ministerial visits. Educational ambition is also reflected in the Educational Cities – Sylvie Charière knows this project very well, which she has helped to implement. This arrangement, led jointly by the ministries responsible for city and national education, consists of accompanying each child in his or her educational path, from early childhood to vocational integration, according to a method of work involving all the actors of a territory – national education, associations, the State – to reflect on a real educational project of territory, identify needs and propose solutions. It is very much popular with the actors concerned, especially local elected representatives, since nine Educational Cities are already labeled in Seine-Saint-Denis, which represents a budget of 4 million euros per year for the city ministry. In addition, since last Saturday, those of Bobigny, Romainville and Saint-Ouen, labeled as part of the third wave of expansion of the device, which now has 200 Educational Cities throughout France. The other highlight of our action is employment, which we have made a priority of recovery. Because it is inconceivable that the place of residence prevents a person from finding a job, we have strengthened, in the framework of the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", the scheme of free jobs, in order to provide a response to the crisis and to enable young people in neighbourhoods to benefit from the recovery. In 2021, 35,000 young people were accompanied under this plan and 133 million euros were committed. The only youth guarantee, managed by the 14 local missions of the department, benefited just under 3,600 young people. In the same year, 1653 free jobs were finally created – as many young people hired through the devices we created. We have also almost doubled the number of apprenticeship contracts during the last two years and labeled four territorial public institutions in Seine-Saint-Denis as Cités de l'emploi. The latter will each benefit from the €100,000 envelope intended to create an alliance between all the actors on the ground – communities, state operators, local missions, associations, economic actors – to identify the most distant audiences from employment and offer them solutions. This labeling was created in 2021: its implementation is in progress and will be operational by 2022. Of course, it is important to listen to the territories – as a deputy minister responsible for the city, I am convinced, as you are. This is what we have done by re-centralizing the funding of the AHR. Several of us attended the signing of the agreement which will bind the Government and the Seine-Saint-Denis during the duration of the experiment. By 2022, the department will be able to provide a financial margin of 40 million euros per year to work towards employment and in particular to help the public in job integration or reintegration. Once again, the state is very committed, alongside the communities, to encouraging this employment dynamic. I would therefore like to reaffirm the Government's commitment to the Seine-Saint-Denis. This department has thirty-three QPVs in thirty-six neighbourhoods: that is, how much it is concerned with city politics! More generally, the plan The stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis is both a vision, or a course – allowing every citizen to take his place in the Republic – and a method, consisting of co-producing with local actors through inter-ministerial mobilization. It must also lead to results, since it is intended to have a real and positive impact on the daily lives of the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods. This plan, which dates back to 2019, has had two full years of application. If certain results are conclusive, we must continue to work in certain areas: we have the humility to recognize that the task is great, if not immense. However, the determination is there: all the ministries concerned are mobilized, alongside the local elected representatives, to meet the very strong expectations of the inhabitants of Seine-Saint-Denis. We owe it to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u54	We come to the questions. I would like to recall that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes each, without the right to reply. Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u55	I'll focus on a theme. The great merit of Rodrigue Kokouendo's and François Cornut-Gentille's report is to point out objectively that, in three areas of regalism – education, police and justice – the Seine-Saint-Denis suffers a rupture of republican equality and that, as a result of the policies applied by successive governments, the inhabitants of this department receive less than all the others from the national territory. The various policies of the city and the means granted through the derogations which you have listed have never made it possible to compensate for the weakness of the common law policies, particularly in the field of the sovereign missions of the State. My question is simple: the speakers we have heard confirmed, each in their field – police, justice or education – that no mechanism to correct discrimination in the means granted has been effectively applied in recent years, or even since the launch of the Stronger State Plan in Seine-Saint-Denis. In 2007 – a year often cited because it is that of the RGPP, the general review of public policies – the Seine-Saint-Denis had 700 police officers more than today, despite the increase in the population. As of January 2016, there were fifty-three judges at the Public Prosecutor's Office; in January 2022, the figure is the same. There is therefore no more, despite the sharp increase in the number of cases. The same applies to national education. Of course, the report by François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokouendo and the plan L'État plus fort en Seine-Saint-Denis do not sum up everything to a question of means. But the means are a prerequisite, Madam Minister Delegate. When will this government finally decide to bring the Seine-Saint-Denis up to level, with regard to the police, justice and national education, so that the population of this department is gradually treated on equal terms with the rest of the national territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u56	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u57	We share the observation that you made about the previous situation, marked by a weakness of the Regalian missions and by a common law policy that did not meet the challenges and needs of the Seine-Saint-Denis. For the past five years, we have been trying to catch up with the backlog that has accumulated for several decades – as it does not date back to 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u58	There are fewer policemen today than in 2007!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u59	Since you have spoken about justice, I give you the figures concerning magistrates: 102 less under the presidency of Nicolas Sarkozy, only 27 more under that of François Hollande and 698 additional magistrates under that of Emmanuel Macron. Similarly, in national education, 113 teacher jobs were awarded for the first degree.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u60	Not in Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u61	Yes, I'm talking about the Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u62	There are no 698 additional magistrates in Seine-Saint-Denis!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u63	As far as justice is concerned, I was referring to the national figures, in time for me. But these new jobs are then distributed. For example, fourteen judicial posts were created in Bobigny between 2016 and 2021. This figure applies to the Seine-Saint-Denis. I admit that an inventory of the needs of the Seine-Saint-Denis is being prepared. I am not here to tell you that we have solved all the problems through the measures we have taken. However, we do not agree with the figures mentioned in the first part of the debate. In our view, the police force is on the increase. Two QRRs have been created, which is in line with the strengthening of police forces in the field. We could have a battle of numbers, we wouldn't be able to agree. With regard to the problem of republican equality, which you have raised, I can assure you that we are making the same observation as you. But we are putting in place ways to reverse the momentum, as I pointed out in my opening statement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u64	The next speaker is Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u65	First of all, I would like to thank Stéphane Peu and the GDR Group, who are at the initiative of this evening's debate. Then I would like to remind you – as you yourself have done, Madam Deputy Minister – that following the recommendations of the evaluation report that I co-signed with François Cornut-Gentille and of the report submitted by the prefecture, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe presented on October 31, 2019 the plan L'État plus fort en Seine-Saint-Denis. Two years later, almost all of the planned measures have been initiated and some are beginning to produce their effects. With regard to security and justice resources, this plan financed the recruitment of police officers, clerks and magistrates, as well as the creation of new republican reconquest quarters – as you have reminded us – and the renovation and even the planned construction of judicial and police structures. With regard to the educational component of the plan, 62 per cent of schools in Seine-Saint-Denis are now in a priority education area and benefit fully from the new measures taken by the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports: compulsory schooling from 3 years old, duplication of classes, Wednesday plan, breakfast at school or even Devoirs faits programme. In addition, incentives have been put in place for the recruitment of educational staff and investments have been made with the stated ambition to continue working for social justice. What first assessment can be made of the application of these measures in Seine-Saint-Denis? While we had stressed the difficulty of the State in designing suitable tools to solve the problems that arise in this territory, despite the financing and the implementation of a targeted public policy, how did our evaluation report and the stronger State plan in Seine-Saint-Denis enable us to overcome, under satisfactory conditions, the difficulties that we have identified? Do you think they can serve as a reference for other departments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u66	Mr. Member, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u67	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to add one final question: has cooperation between actors in school and extracurricular education in the Educational Cities made it possible to strengthen educational care in relation to families?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u68	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u69	First of all, Mr President, I should like to pay tribute to all the work you have done, alongside François Cornut-Gentille, in the framework of the report, and more broadly to your daily commitment to the neighbourhoods. Since 2017, the means used to support the most disadvantaged pupils have received constant interdepartmental attention. While this issue is of course at the heart of the concerns of the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, it actually concerns all ministries. As far as priority areas are concerned, my ministry is, of course, equally invested in this mission. As proof of our commitment to the students and families of Seine-Saint-Denis, 113 teaching posts were created for the school year 2021. These additional staff allow to finalize the duplication of the classes of CP and CE1 and to continue that of the major sections. Today, more than 2,000 classes are split, which, as I said earlier, corresponds to 30,000 children. This also greatly improves the student supervision rate: on average, there are 22 pupils in the classes that are not split, the ratio of supervision is generally much lower in schools located in the priority education area. Since 2017, more than 1,460 teaching jobs have been allocated to the department – if you wish, I will be able to provide you with the figures for the last five years. These grants have led to improvements in the replacement capacity, the strengthening of the care of children of 2 years of age and the creation of jobs dedicated to the care of children with special needs. I would add that at the beginning of 2021 the department also received an additional 103 jobs to improve the teaching conditions and the educational offer, thus confirming the priority given to the institutions of the first degree of Seine-Saint-Denis. You also alluded to working with families. In this regard, measures are being taken within the framework of the Educational Cities, the work carried out there fully including the parents of pupils in the school education of their children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u70	The rapporteur, François Cornut-Gentille, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u71	Listening to the previous speakers, you must have perceived a hiatus, a rupture or even a gulf between their speeches and yours. They described a form of collapse of the public service. Police officers as magistrates asked very serious questions, questioning the very meaning of their mission. They have the impression that they have committed themselves in the name of a vocation but that the conditions under which they fulfil their public service mission are not in line with their idea of public service. The sentences they gave earlier seem to me very serious. You develop language elements by talking about emancipation or attractiveness. Of course, the Government has done things like all previous Governments. That the one you belong to has done better or less well than the others is not the problem. We are faced with a situation of breach of republican equality that calls for a very strong mobilization, beyond political divisions. The report I co-signed with Rodrigue Kokouendo caused an electroshock. We did not then try to identify the culprits. Moreover, today I do not point your finger at you, I simply wish that we are all aware of the reality. Our report had generated a strong mobilization at the time of its publication, when Édouard Philippe was Prime Minister. I feel like it's less so today. I would therefore like you, as the city's deputy minister, to refurbish your colleagues and the Prime Minister. Such work would be useful. My second question concerns the balance sheet and the figures. I would like to have a very precise account of the 23 measures which have been implemented, which have been partially implemented or have not been implemented at all, and for what reasons. With regard to figures, we need to be comprehensive. When indicating arrivals, departures must also be deducted from the total; Or we don't know what we're talking about. I would therefore like to have a very precise figures on the police and the judiciary, including not only arrivals but also departures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u72	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u73	Mr President, you will of course be able to obtain the figures you are asking for. We'll send them to you, post by post. I'd like to go back to the beginning of your speech. You're bringing us to trial when you talk about the collapse of the public services, a situation that you seem to blame this majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u74	No, I don't think I said that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u75	That is, in any case, what I heard in your speech. I would like to remind you that when police and gendarmerie positions were destroyed, five years are not enough. And it's not a job replacement that will solve the problem. When we remove 12,500 police and gendarmerie positions, as your majority did when it was in charge, we need more, perhaps twice as much, to restructure and reorganize services, including internal security. You say that Jean Castex, Prime Minister appointed less than two years ago, did not mobilize on this issue. But it was he who increased the number of QRRs and it was he who was in office when we decided not only to increase the budget of the police and gendarmerie by EUR 1 billion, but also to increase the budget of justice. I recall that, since Éric Dupond-Moretti's arrival in 2020, the justice budget has increased by 16%. The priority given to local authority and justice was thus reaffirmed. The city's delegated ministry has seen its budget increase by more than 20 per cent over the past two years. You can see a disengagement of the State and a collapse of the public services, but we must also recall the Government's efforts to remedy the destructuring of services and the inertia of those who preceded it. As I said earlier, we are doing our job with great humility and, above all, determination to rebuild everything that has been deconstructed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u76	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u77	Forgive me for my stoning words, but I do not wish to enter into a political debate such as the one I have just heard. I don't care what happened before, I grew up in Seine-Saint-Denis, I live there and I continue to fight there. Quite frankly, I do not feel that, under this quinquennium – no more than under the previous ones – the situation has improved. The Seine-Saint-Denis is, compared to the rest of the country, two and a half times more people living in a QPV, three times more children in ZEP – a priority education area –, 30% fewer doctors and twice as much poverty. It is also the department of France where crime is highest. In the face of this situation, François Cornut-Gentille recalled, the state is failing. He broke with Republican equality, not for five years, but for twenty-five or thirty years. When I was a kid, it was already like that. All the elected representatives of Seine-Saint-Denis, regardless of their political colour, utter the same cry: give us the same thing as elsewhere! I have a dream: that when we talk about the Seine-Saint-Denis, we are not facing the minister responsible for the city. This would mean that the policies in this department are the same as elsewhere. This is not the case today – but it is not your fault, in your personal capacity, Madam Deputy Minister, or that of your majority. Our department has fewer magistrates today than yesterday. You mentioned the recruitment of fourteen magistrates. However, they had been appointed, as replacements, by Mr Urvoas when he was guard of the seals. Their employment was ultimately sustained but they were already there more than five years ago. They were needed to catch up because, for example, it took more than two years to get a first hearing with a divorce judge. That's the reality. We are not up to the stakes, not on the right scale. I'm not saying you can create magistrates in 30 seconds. However, today there are 60 to 80 magistrates and 150 to 200 clerks – as the speakers said earlier. You say you made a catch-up effort: it's true. The communities were given $20 million for the construction of schools; Since there are 40 communes, this is 500,000 euros per commune, i.e. one class per city. Meanwhile, the State has allocated $100 million for its own buildings. As far as LACs are concerned, I was already asking the question in 2018. To strengthen them, we didn't add any additional staff – you mentioned 337 additional police officers, but I don't know where they are, I didn't see one at the Drancy police station: we undressed other units. The health situation, particularly with regard to hospitals, is catastrophic. On the occasion of the health crisis, it has been discovered that there are fewer resuscitation beds in the Seine-Saint-Denis than in the Hauts-de-Seine or in Paris, even though the population is poorer and carrying polypathologies. Whole quarters remained without a single general practitioner, not to mention specialists. The State acts in this area, but the effects of this action will take time to be felt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u78	Please conclude, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u79	Madam Deputy Minister, it is outrageous that we no longer have access to the prefecture to apply for a residence permit when we do not have a computer or are not able to read or write French. It is scandalous that the department does not have any APEC Center – Association pour l'emploi des cadres – while there are many elsewhere, as if there were no executives in Seine-Saint-Denis and we were condemned to the absence of social mix. The Territory urgently needs means to fight against the pavilion subdivision, because after the ghettos of the buildings, it appears in the pavilion districts, invested by the sleep merchants. Lease permits do not solve everything, there are many problems. We must manage to control the population, which is not done today. François Cornut-Gentille and Rodrigue Kokouendo acknowledge, in the report, that they do not know how many inhabitants the Seine-Saint-Denis has, and the situation is getting worse...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u80	Thank you! The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u81	Mr. Lagarde didn't ask a question...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u82	No, I just made a statement!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u83	But we've been making observations for decades. When I came to the Assembly in 2017, to sit next to you, we made observations; But you, you, remained in the mode of observation as we took action. Maybe that's what makes us different.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u84	Action is what I propose today!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u85	We are responsible and we are acting. You know, like me, that when you decide to create a health home, it doesn't happen in a snap of your fingers: you have to recruit staff and attract doctors to a territory, for example in the La Noue neighbourhood in Bagnolet, where I was just there, or in Bobigny that I recently visited. We have to make these places attractive to persuade the professionals, who we need so much, to settle there. This is what we do when we reinvest in the hospital and put in place access to care through the PASS that I mentioned earlier – an investment of 10 million euros. This is what we do in terms of public services when we relocate France Services houses in these territories deserted by the Republic, which ensure access to rights for the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods and avoid a breach of equality before the law. This is what we do when we return these traveling houses, as in Noisy-le-Grand where they go down the towers on the bus. It is at this level that our action is located. I was talking about a republican promise earlier; I can also talk to you about how we make the Republic live in our neighbourhoods. We do this on a daily basis with actors on the ground, with elected representatives and associations. Fortunately, they do not share the overwhelming observation that you make, nor do they take the position of constantly victimizing the inhabitants of these neighbourhoods. This posture is unbearable for the delegate minister I am,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u86	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u87	[[MM. François Cornut-Gentille and Stéphane Peu protestant]] ... but it is even more so for these associative actors and for the inhabitants of these neighborhoods, who want to be seen as normal people who aspire to live normally. And that's what we're allowing them today. Don't get mad, Mr. Little!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u88	I don't get mad, I'm kidding! I'm laughing yellow, but I'm laughing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u89	[[Mr. Stéphane Little continues to protest]] This is what we allow when we reinvest these territories, when we intervene with the ANRU, with millions of euros, to give them a decent living environment, that we owe them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u90	Mr. Little, please! Mr Alain Ramadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u91	Two years after the Prime Minister's announcements at the time, we, the parliamentarians of Seine-Saint-Denis on all political fronts – this point should be stressed – wait for the effects of the shock measures that had been announced. As it is more than difficult to see today, on the ground, significant improvements and the words of the speakers at the previous round table confirm this. I would like to ask you two specific questions. The first concerns the absence of unreplaced teachers. The loss of courses on the whole of the schooling of the children of Seine-Saint-Denis was estimated, in the report of our colleagues, to one year. Unfortunately, in view of the number of interventions I have had to make since the beginning of the legislature, I fear that there has been no significant improvement in this area. What about it? What concrete action does the Government intend to take to address this problem? I'm not even talking about AESH!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u92	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u93	I have recently asked the Government a question on this point. The Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities replied that she would come to my constituency the next day; A few days later, on 26 October, I sent him a letter, which remained unanswered. In my city, there were thirty children without AESH. The Academic Director of National Education Services (DASEN) has come: we have tried to find solutions, but the deficit is obvious. Let us stop saying that the school is inclusive, let us stop saying that we are doing everything possible for children with disabilities! That's not reality. The second point refers to the police force. In 2021, the office of Bondy, in my constituency, which also covers the town of Pavillons-sous-Bois, lost eighteen police officers. What about today? How is it that our police stations are suffering staff losses? Are there any agents out there to assign them somewhere else? Give us some explanations! Deputy Minister, I recognize that the cumulative delay is significant; It is the act of all the majorities that have preceded you. All colleagues will give it to you. But you're in business! At a lunch in Matignon with all the parliamentarians, both right and left, the Prime Minister had made strong commitments. Now it's up to you to answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u94	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u95	You are right: it is up to us to answer for a situation which is not new either. We inherit it, and some of you, who were elected in this last legislature, inherit it just as much. As far as the AESHs are concerned, I am not aware of the situation you are describing tonight; But I can tell you that at the national level, 19.5% of students have entered the inclusive school system, which now accommodates 400,000 students with disabilities. The status of HSEAs has also improved. Of course, we can always do more, faster; But for 125,000 AESH, the situation has improved. It's important to remind him. Similarly, 1300 ULIS classes – localized units for school inclusion – were created under this quinquennium, and 250 structures dedicated to autism. Yeah, you can always say we can do more, faster. We're trying to catch up, but in five years, we can't do miracles! We see it in your respective interventions: fire is everywhere, emergencies are at all levels. So we're trying to make the best of it. The Government has shown that it is manoeuvring. As far as the police force is concerned, we do not agree. As of 31 December 2021, 4244 police officers were deployed in the field, while in 2017...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u96	It's less than in 2007!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u97	I'm talking about 2017: there were 3990...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u98	And I'm talking about 2007!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u99	Mr. Little, would you like to speak in another tone? Besides, you don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u100	I'm not talking about 2017 but about 2007. Today, he has 700 fewer police officers than in 2007!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u101	But we agree with you! The abolition of police and gendarmerie posts throughout the national territory took place before the quinquennium! Let us also recognize the catch-up we have made.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u102	It kept falling down with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u103	No, I have the numbers: 4244 compared to 3990, you can't say it went down!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u104	We're not going into a debate. Please conclude, Madam Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u105	If you want, we can enter a battle of numbers, but the republican reconquest neighborhoods are us; improving the equipment and working conditions of the police forces is ours; It is this government, Mr.Lagarde, which is working to catch up with vehicles – a very important element in the working conditions of the law enforcement forces. The payment of the overtime stock is also this government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u106	It's all right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u107	Of course, we can always pretend that we are not doing enough, but the action is there and it is determined.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u108	Madam Deputy Minister, at least hear that on the AESH, what we are told is incorrect!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u109	It is Mr Hubert Wulfranc who has the floor alone!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u110	A word outside the Seine-Saint-Denis, which may restore some serenity. [[Minister Delegate protested]] Thirty years of city policies, thirty years of contracting in all areas – between the state and the communes, now between the state and the intercommunities; 30 years when, in the field of State powers, the deportment of responsibilities is increasingly frequent, the means being transferred to the local authorities. These, of course, take: they take the draft contracts in the fields of health, public safety or education. Social needs are there and people are sensitive to improvements in these areas. But nothing is free in the contracts: to benefit from these improvements, you have to align more and more sub, you have to install more video protection, you have to leave a house of justice with the support of the municipal logistics or an educational city that you recommend, but with an increase of the educational support of the commune. The same applies to the health contract. At the end of the day, contracting, totally perverted, is making communities more and more spit. Yes, it makes communities spit out, even with state support. Do you not think that this contract should be completely revised and that the nation's responsibility for sovereign powers should be fully assumed?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u111	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u112	We can always improve things, increase efficiency and agility by correcting the contract. I also welcome the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, which has benefited from a joint joint committee (JC) concluded thanks to the work of the two assemblies, and which will lead to differentiation, decentralization and differentiation in our territories. This is what local and regional authorities are asking for and, thanks to this text, which has just been adopted in the CMP, this progress will be made all the more easily. Should the partnership between the state and communities be strengthened? It is the communities that call for this new method of contracting, which calls for trust in the territories. Indeed, what is happening in Rouen is different from what is happening in Aubervilliers, Raincy or Trappes. Because these territories are different, communities are asking for more flexibility and agility. So, yes, we are going to go much more decentralization, in accordance with the wishes of the communities. We will strengthen the deconcentration of policies and resources towards local government services. We will create differentiation in the territories. We assume to follow up on the wish of communities – for the time being still pious – and to allow them to act as they please at the local level. You mentioned the deportment to local and regional authorities, but I do not think that the recentralisation of the RSA is one of them. On the contrary, it is a measure of solidarity in favour of the Seine-Saint-Denis department. When we deploy specialized educators and mediators on the ground, which is the responsibility of the departments, we do not pretend to replace them. But we have the honesty to say that, given the magnitude of the youth crime task that is affecting our neighbourhoods and territories, we will strengthen the response and be on the side of communities to lead specialized prevention and give meaning to the lives of our young fellow citizens. Finally, as far as the investments of local authorities are concerned, I cannot let you say that we are draining local finances when virtually all the allocations are on the increase. The DSU – the endowment of urban solidarity and social cohesion – is on the rise, as is the DSIL, the allocation of support for local investment. The DGF – the overall allocation for the operation of the municipalities – and the DPV – the political allocation of the city – have, of course, stagnated for five years, but we have put an end to years of decline of these allocations to the local authorities. The recovery plan, finally, benefits the territories, in a co-investment approach: who, in fact, better than the local elected one, knows exactly what is needed for his commune?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u113	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1140.u114	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Oral questions without debate. The meeting is adjourned.
