ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified examination procedure, of the draft law authorizing the approval of the convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Singapore (No. 4425, 5028). As no amendments have been made to this text, I put it directly to the vote, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u2	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Convention establishing the International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation (No. 4564, 5037).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u4	I am pleased to present today the bill to authorize the ratification of the Convention establishing the International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation, of which France is a depositary State. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the quality work done by the rapporteur, Jean-Paul Lecoq, Member of Parliament for Seine-Maritime, who is very involved in maritime matters, among others.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u6	You had to say it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u7	At the One Ocean Summit, held in Brest from 9 to 11 February 2022, the President of the Republic reaffirmed France's commitment to the protection of the common good of the ocean, as well as our commitment to freedom of navigation. To be free, navigation must be safe. It is an imperative in itself, in accordance with international law, and it is also essential for the proper functioning of international trade – you know that I am particularly sensitive to this issue. The adoption of the international convention governing the transformation of the International Maritime Signs and Signals Association (ISAM) into an international organization is in line with this logic. This is the result of France's efforts to secure the agreement of fifty-two delegations at the diplomatic conference held in Kuala Lumpur from 25 to 28 February 2020. This new international organization will succeed ISMS, established in Saint-Germain-en-Laye since its creation in 1957, which has contributed to the development of major and universally recognized initiatives including the International Maritime Organization (IMO), of which it is a privileged interlocutor. In particular, I would like to mention the Automatic Identification System (AIS) which allows vessels to be identified when visual or radar recognition is no longer possible. While ocean governance is of increasing strategic importance, the transformation of ISMHA into an international organization was justified by the development of its international activities and its contribution to the work of other international organizations. Indeed, the ASIM's associative status did not allow it to best serve the interests of the safety of men and goods at sea. The objective of this process of transformation into an international organization is thus to bring its legal status into line with the reality of its activity. As an international organization, the International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation will be able to strengthen its links with Governments and form a coherent circle of cooperation with IMO, more focused on the interests of flag States, and with the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO), which is responsible for marine mapping. The aim of this new international organization will be to harmonise and improve the quality of aids to maritime navigation. It will play a central role for the safety of men and goods at sea and for the efficiency of maritime navigation. With the international legal personality of the Convention, ISMS will have the legal capacity to encourage and facilitate the widespread adoption of standards on aids to maritime navigation. This creation also strengthens France's position as a pole of international governance and is a success for our policy of welcoming new international organizations. The maintenance of the organisation's headquarters in France contributes directly to the international reach and attractiveness of our country. The review of this Convention also recalls the priority that we attach to international maritime issues by strengthening our participation in structuring multilateralism in support of ocean governance. The future international organization for aid to maritime navigation already has fifty signatory States which will be considered as founding members. The next step for the entry into force of the Convention was ratification: the establishment of the Organization would be effective within 90 days after thirty States had ratified the text. The non-signatory UN Member States will also be able to join the future international organisation by depositing an instrument of accession with France. Since the standards adopted by ISMS are non-binding and already applied at national level, the ratification of this Convention does not require any amendment of French national law or the adoption of new laws or regulations in the field of aids to navigation. It is therefore now possible to complete the internal process of ratification of the Convention in order to enable France to become the sixth country to deposit its instrument of ratification, after Japan, Norway, Singapore, Malaysia and most recently India. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These are the main observations of the Convention establishing the International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation, which is the subject of the bill now proposed for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u8	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u9	[[Smile]] Maritime safety began with the Titanic disaster – I will refrain from engulfing Celine Dion's song, because I am not sure that it would be in accordance with the rules. The shipwreck, which was considered insubmersible, killed nearly 1,500 people in 1912. [[Safety of Life At Sea]] The very important controversies related to this shipwreck have led to an international reflection aimed at creating conditions for better safety on board. The number of lifeboats, emergency evacuation procedures and radio communication problems have revealed huge gaps in safety and security standards. This shock prompted professionals to organize themselves to adopt, two years later, in 1914, the first International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, commonly referred to by its English acronym SOLAS. In 1926, on the sidelines of the Cairo International Navigation Congress, an informal meeting of heads of coastal lighting and marking services, organized by André Gervais de Rouville, head of the French lighthouses and beacons department, pointed to the need for international organization around maritime signage. It is not surprising that the service of French lighthouses and beacons played a major role in this history. We must pay tribute to this service, which has been a driving force for decades and has always been at the cutting edge of technology. We owe him in particular the invention, in 1822, of the Fresnel lens that revolutionized the operation of lighthouses in the world. In 1957, this informal mobilization took shape in the form of an association under French law – we are used here to speak of an association "law 1901" – which became the International Association of Maritime Signs and Signals in 1998. The aim of this association is to enhance the safety and efficiency of maritime navigation by contributing to the improvement and harmonization of marking and marking standards at sea. Its headquarters are located in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. ISMS brings together national authorities, industry and scientific institutes. Over the course of its sixty-five years of formal existence, and even since the first informal meetings, ninety-six years ago, it has allowed the maritime world to discuss marking and signalling techniques at sea, in order to disseminate good practices to all actors in this sector. The most striking success of the ISMS was the establishment in 1977 of only two marking systems in the world, the A region and the B region, compared to about 30 before. ISMS has also had to respond to the intensification of global shipping since the 1970s. Once again, it was a tragedy which prompted a reflection by the ISMS, at the request of the IMO, on the improvement of the regulation of the world's maritime traffic: the grounding of the Amoco Cadiz and the dumping of its 220000 tonnes of oil on the Breton beaches in 1978. ISMS has helped save many human lives and preserve nature and property at sea. The work of this association is remarkable and I wanted, as I said in committee yesterday, to ask for this debate in the House to pay tribute to it. We must thank the various committees of the ISMS that work day after day to adapt the norms to the increasing marine flows and to anticipate the world of tomorrow, that of the second maritime revolution. The revolution of the 1970s, that of automation of a large number of tasks which has halved the number of sailors on ships, is now over. The second revolution will be that of artificial intelligence and autonomous guidance, which will further divide by two the number of sailors on these gigantic ships that cross the world. It is a matter of major concern and questioning for us. How far do we have to tolerate this development? And that is not to mention the new challenges we face, especially what some call the "territorialization" of the sea. This is not insignificant and requires intense reflection on the planning of these areas, including coastal areas as part of the development of wind farms. ISMS must meet all these challenges, not to mention the technical demands of its many Member States. But then why change a winning team? The status of association law 1901 greatly hampers the deepening of missions and its international legitimacy. The architecture of global maritime multilateralism must evolve towards a trio of equally important intergovernmental organizations, which will share all the problems faced by ships: IMO, which manages ship security and flag States; IHO, responsible for maritime data, hydrography and cartography; and ISM, which oversees the navigation and organisation of maritime space, thus safety at sea. The Convention before you will therefore allow for the creation of a new International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation and will provide this body with a more legal nature consistent with the scale and international dimension of its activities. As a Communist Member of Parliament, I have, of course, ensured that the change in the status of the Association does not affect the employment framework and the status of its employees. That is the case: I have been assured that the headquarters agreement currently being drafted would in no way alter this framework, except to improve it, which I welcome. This transformation will rid the ISMS of an image that still sticks too much to its skin, namely that of a simple technical association, which lobbying to promote its own standards and promote those of its host State, France. This increased legitimacy will also allow him to overcome the many operational problems that slow down his work. For example, because of its status as a French association, several states refuse to join the AISM or limit their funding. Some are even reluctant to ask him to conduct internal audits, for fear that sensitive data will be transmitted to France. The status of an international organization will finally help to overcome the difficulties in the right of entry and residence on French soil that are sometimes encountered by staff of ISMS and its foreign delegations. The three members of the trio I have just mentioned will finally be able to act on an equal footing, for the benefit of all. Let us take the measure of what this implies for France: the French authorities have shown humility by allowing France to lose a little of its power within the AISM in order to strengthen it better. Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, stressed yesterday that France agreed to "control less to radiate more". I'm making this perfectly fair expression for myself. The Department of Maritime Affairs of the Ministry of the Sea, for example, will lose a legal seat within the Association – but it is for the right cause. I see it as an unselfish gesture of great value. It is very rare to see an association taking on such an international dimension. I would therefore like to congratulate and thank all those who have worked for nearly ten years for this beautiful association to become an intergovernmental organization. These years of work have been necessary to resolve all issues, including maintaining a close and effective relationship with partners, experts and industry. I also salute all those who have worked diplomatically within the Quai d'Orsay and the Ministry of the Sea to bring about this change of scale: they have provided exceptional work. The convention that we will ratify – I hope – in a few minutes is in his image. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the ratification of the Convention establishing the International Organisation for Aids to Maritime Navigation. I take this last debate by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the Chamber to highlight the extent of the work it has done over the past five years and to welcome the memory of President Marielle de Sarnez and the presidency of Jean-Louis Bourlanges. This committee, many parliaments, are in our favour, especially as regards a reserved area for the Head of State. I would also like to take this moment to pay tribute to the atmosphere that prevailed during our discussions: although all members of the committee are often far from agreeing – it is the beauty of democracy – the quality of our reflections and working relations will have enabled us to give meaning to parliamentary diplomacy. Finally, I would like to thank and congratulate – on behalf of all of us, I am sure – all the administrators of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the extraordinary work they have done for each and every one of us, helping us to draft our numerous legislative and information reports. They've spent the last five years without counting, which is not nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u10	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u11	[[Applause on all benches]] I would of course like to thank François-Xavier Carabelli, who has worked on this text with great precision and in record time. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u13	In the general debate, Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u14	The International Association of Maritime Signs and Signals, established in 1957 by some 20 countries, including France, was originally intended to homogenize and improve the quality of maritime signs and signals. This mission, which goes back to the service of the lighthouses and beacons, is of vital importance for the maritime territories like those of my constituency, in Finistère: the navigation off the edge of the Raz is particularly dangerous. The rapporteur recalled how disastrous the Amoco Cadiz disaster was for the coasts as well as for marine flora and fauna. The aim of ISMS is to enhance the safety and efficiency of maritime navigation by contributing to the improvement and harmonisation of aids to navigation, which are essential for safety at sea. It has contributed throughout its history to the development of major and recognized IMO initiatives, such as the maritime marking system (MBS), used globally and referenced in the 1974 SOLAS Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea. As the minister delegate pointed out, ISMS has also developed the AIS, which enhances both maritime security and security, and thus maritime traffic. While she was a privileged interlocutor for IMO and IHO, her status did not, so far, confer on her the tools of international law available to those organizations. In order to put an end to the growing gap between its international action and its status as an association under French law alone, the AISM wished to become an international intergovernmental organization. Ratification of the Convention is therefore essential to enable the ISAM to continue to ensure the safety of people and property at sea, as stressed by the President of the Republic at the first international ocean summit, the One Ocean Summit, held last week in Brest. It has many advantages for ISAM and for France's international influence: it will, among other things, enable the Association to strengthen its legitimacy on the world stage, in particular by developing its relations with other international organizations and strengthening its expertise with States. The continuation of the ISAM headquarters in France at its historic site in Saint-Germain-en-Laye will also guarantee the attractiveness of our country. Moreover, in view of the internationalization of maritime issues, the effectiveness of an association is ensured only if its global dimension is guaranteed. The change in the status of the ISMS is therefore made essential by the nature of its missions and by the current maritime issues. France, as the world's second largest maritime power, is firmly committed to ensuring maritime safety, but also to protecting the marine environment and harmonising aids to navigation and international standards. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] This bill is therefore a symbol of the need to strengthen multilateralism in ocean governance. For if the sea is synonymous with freedom, it is also synonymous with danger. The international community, made up of States and associations such as ISMS, must shoulder its maritime responsibilities by providing the necessary protection to those who travel through blue spaces. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u15	Mrs Frédérique Dumas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u16	France has everything to be a leading maritime power. It is difficult to distinguish a course in French maritime policy. We are, in fact, too rarely debating maritime policy in this House. That is why I would like to thank Jean-Paul Lecoq for the quality of his report, for his involvement and for insisting on putting this essential issue on the agenda of our Assembly. The world's second-largest exclusive economic zone (EEZ) with 11 million square kilometres, which is present in the oceans as a whole thanks to its overseas territories, our country also has a leading shipping company, CMA CGM. France, a country with a strong marine tradition, has played a significant role in the history of global navigation and the exploration of the seas and oceans. It has also worked on the formation of global maritime governance. The International Association of Maritime Signs and Signals, established in 1957 thanks to the action of French, produces technical documents for maritime administrations and companies in the field of aid to navigation. Its objective is to improve maritime safety across the globe, by helping to harmonize and improve the rules of signage, which vary from one state to another. While maritime accidents remain too numerous – oil spills, which cause massive pollution when oil spills into the sea, for example, are too frequent on our coasts and in the seas of the world – its usefulness is obvious. The transformation of ISMS into an International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation will enable it to have a better capacity for legal action. Obtaining a true status as an international organization will indeed give greater legitimacy to this entity, which will appear less like a lobby, and will give more scope to its proposals, which are expected to become international standards. Its material conditions will also be improved: it will be able to access more funding, the displacement of its members will be facilitated, and there will be less reluctance on the part of States opposing it. We will thus be able to hope for better protection of maritime navigation, thus of people and the environment. The Association will become one of the three international organizations competent in the international governance of the seas and oceans. It is a very good thing, and even a reason for pride, that our country continues to welcome its seat. However, while we welcome the fact that the headquarters of the AISM remain in France, we still wonder about the relevance of maintaining the headquarters of a maritime organisation in the Paris region, in this case in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. It is not a question of criticising this city, and Jean-Paul Lecoq explained very well that the port of Paris had become a maritime port, but we ask the question: why not relocate this seat to a city with a strong maritime identity?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u17	[[Smile]] In Le Havre, for example!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u18	This would provide a focus on these issues. This comment echoes another repeated request from the Libertés et Territoires Group, which has repeatedly expressed the wish that the ministries should be deconcentrated: we see it as a necessary step towards the establishment of a decentralised republic. Beyond this organizational issue, the discussion of the text raises questions about our country's role in future global maritime governance. The maritime space, which covers 71% of the planet, becomes a place of major geopolitical tensions, territorial conflicts and struggle for resource exploitation. The expansionist ambitions of many states in the maritime area are worrying. China has built artificial islands in the South China Sea, which also serve as a military base, in order to claim an extension of its exclusive economic zone and to take control of a strategic zone rich in oil and gas resources, through which one third of world trade flows. The control of maritime navigation in this area, and further south through the Strait of Malacca, is thus becoming a source of increasing tension. In this context, France must assert forcefully that freedom of navigation is a fundamental principle of international law and cannot be an exception. The deep seabed, full of resources, is also likely to be looted in an anarchy by the great powers. In this regard, the French Ministry's strategy for the control of the seabed has just been published and presented by the Minister of Armed Forces. The stakes are important because European countries must not be allowed to distance themselves. The high seas is also experiencing increasing remilitarization. These areas, which account for two thirds of the oceans, are not under the authority of a state and must be sanitized as a global public good. The long-awaited international treaty for the high seas is slow to come into being. In this context of growing tensions, it is more than necessary to promote multilateralism and orderly maritime governance. This text will contribute, bringing its modest stone to the building. That is why we will of course support it, having a thought for all the teams of the current ISM and for all the industrialists and scientists who take part in this wonderful work. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, I would like to thank all those who, during this term of office, contributed to the living of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, in that capacity, Mr Didier Eifermann.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u19	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u20	Through its missions and action, the International Association of Maritime Signs and Signals is now indispensable for the safety of men and goods, and for the efficiency of maritime navigation. As our rapporteur reminded us, it all started with the Titanic. Following the establishment of the International Maritime Organization, which had set minimum standards, particularly with regard to buoyancy, the issue of lighthouses and beacons, central to maritime safety, advanced under the impetus of France. Created in 1957, ISMS responded to the growing need for international harmonization of maritime signage rules to allow sailors to be safely located at sea. From its origin, this association, originally called the International Association of Lighthouse Authorities, has thus enabled some 20 maritime administrations to meet and organize themselves in the form of an association under French law. Since then, and with a view to simplifying the task of navigators, ISM has been conducting work on the modalities and engineering of aids to navigation, the conclusions of which allow the transmission of valuable technical information to maritime administrations and companies in the sector. Due to the importance of its mission, ISMS has undergone a significant evolution, with 305 members to date, including 87 maritime administrations worldwide, 66 associate members and 152 industrial members. Despite the scale and importance of its activities, it must be noted that, because of its current status, ISMS faces various challenges and is not considered an international organization in its own right. Indeed, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, she is often faced with refusals to join, limited access to certain funding or reluctance on the part of some States to carry out evaluation and audit. Similarly, its employees, as well as foreign delegations visiting headquarters, regularly face administrative difficulties with regard to the right of entry and residence. In order to remedy this situation and improve efficiency, in the service of the general interest, the association needs to change its statutes. The bill before us today makes it possible to ratify the convention, signed in Paris last January, which provides for the creation of the International Organisation for Aids to Maritime Navigation, which would transform the ISM of association law 1901 into an intergovernmental organization under international law. If we vote on this text today, France will be the sixth country to ratify the Convention. The new status of ISMS, which will place ISMS on an equal footing with other international organizations, will give it global recognition and legitimacy to the proposed texts it will formulate. Furthermore, if we are well aware that this change of status will not have a major impact on the tasks entrusted to it or – the rapporteur has ascertained – on staff, the granting of an international legal personality will strengthen the positioning of ISMS. It will also facilitate access to financing through state funds. This change is necessary in order to enable this new organisation to form, alongside IMO and IHO, a virtuous circle of cooperation, covering all maritime issues, from ship safety standards to knowledge of the marine environment, to aids to navigation and coastal uses. This provision will help to improve global maritime governance, which today has many challenges, whether it is the protection of marine areas, aquaculture or wind at sea. Finally, the headquarters of the International Association of Maritime Signs and Signals will remain in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. This change of status will therefore promote the influence and attractiveness of France since our country will host one of the three international organizations with a maritime vocation, which will strengthen it as a maritime power. Given that this development is necessary in order to enable the ISMS to carry out its indispensable tasks effectively, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will of course support the adoption of the Convention. Finally, I naturally associate myself with the rapporteur's remarks to thank the whole committee for its work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u21	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u22	I thank you, Mr rapporteur, for your presentation, in which one could feel – as I said yesterday in committee – your deep commitment to maritime issues. As you have pointed out, the transformation of the International Maritime Signs Association into a true international organization is undoubtedly a step forward. More broadly, it is a further demonstration of the usefulness of multilateralism, both in solving concrete problems and in strengthening cooperation between States, of course, but also, in this case, with the actors of navigation. In this case, ISMS seems to have a useful co-existence of its associate members, ports or scientific and research organizations, or even its industrial members, suppliers of navigational equipment or marking equipment. France will be proud to count on its territory, thanks to this evolution, a new international organization whose mission is essential and which has decision-making power. I also note that this future organization will host fifty founding members, who had until 26 January to sign the convention. These include most European states: France, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, Spain, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Romania and other major maritime nations. However, this will not be the case with the United Kingdom, the United States, or China. The reasons for these notable absences may question us. Nevertheless, I repeat, this transformation of the ISMS into an international organization of its own accord will make it possible to display new ambitions and will certainly strengthen multilateralism. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text to ratify the Convention. In addition, my colleague Didier Quentin and I pledge you to visit from this summer the Cordouan lighthouse, which sits at the entrance to the Gironde estuary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u23	We're waiting for the invitation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u24	Since everyone refers to the maritime facade included in their department, I must mention that of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques! Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u25	The One Ocean Summit, held last week in Brest, and the high-level segment of some 30 Heads of State and Government, reiterated the urgency of implementing the fourteenth sustainable development goal for the protection of aquatic fauna and flora. Four major themes were identified during this unprecedented major international summit: the protection of marine ecosystems and the promotion of sustainable fisheries, the fight against plastic pollution, solutions to climate change and the renewed governance of the oceans. At the forefront of the measures adopted is the implementation of the so-called BBNJ Treaty – for Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdictions, the Intergovernmental Conference on Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction – which will enter into a formal negotiation phase at the United Nations in March and which would be the first text to introduce regulations on the high seas. Consideration of this convention is therefore timely. The International Organisation for Aids to Maritime Navigation is to take over from the ISSM, which was established in 1957 and has its headquarters in France in Saint-Germain-en-Laye. The aim of this organisation is to enhance the safety and efficiency of maritime navigation by contributing to the improvement and harmonisation of aids to navigation. Its transformation into an international organization reflects the development of its global action. The establishment of the International Aids to Maritime Navigation Organization will support the efforts of the international community to promote the safety of seafarers and goods at sea, the efficiency of maritime navigation and the environment. The organization will play a leading role in ocean governance, an area essential for international and multilateral cooperation. While international organizations hold a central role in global governance and the strengthening of multilateralism, the French authorities look forward to hosting such an entity in their territory. This Convention, drawn up in accordance with the rules of public international law in the field of the law of treaties and the establishment of international organizations, has no incompatibility or contradiction with France's international commitments. On the substance, it should be noted that the Convention does not alter the regulation of international maritime law. As today, the documents resulting from the work of the future organization will be intended to remain non-binding, in accordance with Article 4 of this Convention. This Convention is also compatible with European Union law. Maritime signage – lighthouses and beacons – is the exclusive competence of the Member States, which are sovereign over their territorial waters and have exclusive jurisdiction over their EEZs, the law being derived from the international and universal conventions of the International Maritime Organisation applicable in the law of the sea – in particular the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea of 10 December 1982 – or in the field of maritime security and security. France is one of the first signatory States to the Convention, which was opened for signature by all the Member States of the United Nations at a limited ceremony held in Paris on 27 January 2021. The Group will vote in favour of this ratification. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Before concluding, I would like to thank the rapporteur for allowing us to debate this subject in the Chamber, but also Mr President, for the holding of our debates in recent years, as well as all my colleagues, in particular those I have been with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs throughout the legislature, and finally the staff of the National Assembly for the smooth running of our debates in this beautiful house where we have been given the honour of sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u26	Thank you, honourable Member, for hoping that you will return to our work in July. Mr Didier Quentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u27	For the last time in the legislature, we are meeting this morning in a public meeting to ratify several international conventions. Four of them will be ratified under the so-called simplified procedure. At the request of the GDR Group, we are debating in normal procedure the ratification of the Convention establishing the International Organisation for Aids to Maritime Navigation, provided for in a bill whose brilliant rapporteur is our communist colleague from Le Havre Jean-Paul Lecoq, in which I am pleased, as a Gaullist MP, to find, as often, a companion of the road – maritime, in this case. Whatever the procedures adopted, I would like to point out that all the many texts we have ratified have been the subject of preparatory work and an in-depth debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the directors and other staff of this commission. I now turn to the ratification of the Convention establishing the International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation. In the preamble, I would like to point out that maritime routes are by far the main means of transiting goods, i.e. more than 80% of them in intercontinental trade. The rules of maritime signage have long been empirical and non-harmonized, making international navigation complex, sometimes with dramatic consequences since, as Jean-Paul Lecoq said a few minutes ago, it all started with the Titanic... The creation in 1957 of the ISSM, the former International Association of Lighthouse Authorities, made it possible to fill this gap. The association publishes technical documents at the international level. It is thus a force of proposals to the IMO. This bill aims to ratify the convention that changes the nature of the ISMS by transforming it from an association law 1901 into an intergovernmental organization. There are three main reasons for such a transformation: first, the AISM will benefit from international recognition and will no longer appear as a lobby; Second, it can thus be eligible for state funds while strengthening global maritime governance; Finally, this will allow France to host the headquarters of this new intergovernmental organization in Saint-Germain-en-Laye and will make our country the host of one of the three global maritime organizations, which is only justice because France has many advantages in this field, notably the second global maritime space, that is more than 11 million square kilometres, and on its soil, in Marseille, the second world shipper CMA CGM, the Compagnie maritime d'horizon-Compagnie générale maritime. Finally, you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, Mr.Minister, a wink by evoking, like Alain David, one of the most prestigious monuments of maritime signage: this is of course the lighthouse of Cordouan, off my constituency. Built under Louis XIII, often nicknamed "king of the lighthouses and lighthouse of the kings", it marks the entrance of the Gironde – the department of Alain David – and, classified in 1862 as a historical monument, at the same time as Notre-Dame de Paris, it has now been registered, since July 2021, as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. I heard Jean-Paul Lecoq suggest an invitation to all of you to come and visit this lighthouse... Dear Alain David, you see what we have to do! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Alain David also applauds]] It is therefore with confidence that the Republican Group will vote for this ratification. We will thus be the sixth country, Minister, to be part of the great maritime ambition that France must give itself or give itself back.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u28	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u29	The human people are dependent on the world ocean. We in France, therefore, in principle support initiatives aimed at better ordering activities related to globalization, including as a historical phenomenon prior to capitalism, while at the same time combating the neoliberal globalization that has prevailed in recent decades. In this case, we are asked to authorize the transformation of the International Maritime Signs Association into an International Organization for Aids to Maritime Navigation. Association law 1901 with its headquarters in France, the current structure is already working to improve and harmonize aids to navigation. It had consultative status with the IMO, attached to the United Nations, but by becoming an international organization of its own, it would be even more able to carry out its missions. We will therefore vote on the text. Since its foundation in 1957, ISMS has been working for the general human interest: without it, no global maritime marking system, essential to rescues, no automatic ship identification system when visual or radar recognition is no longer possible, etc. How many deaths and ecological disasters have been prevented with these devices! It is our country's honour to be the depositary of the convention that will make ISMS an international organization. We look forward to hearing the voice of those who want the organisation to have, like the United Nations, six official languages – English, Arabic, Chinese, Spanish, French and Russian: the supporters of all-English will not have won this time! At this point, let's broaden the angle of view. First of all, let us come out of the consensus on this text to remind us that the global situation of the oceans is bad. They suffer from the harms of neoliberal globalization: productivism, generalized free trade, private appropriation, urbanisation without control of coastlines, various pollutions, intensive fishing but also the race to extract minerals, oil and offshore gas, with its lots of tensions between nations and conflicts of use, and the devastating consequences that ensue. The sea remains largely a non-right zone. Yet all humanity has an interest in taking action to protect this common good, even those countries that do not have a coastline in view, for example, of the influence of the oceans on the climate. France has a special responsibility for the second maritime domain in the world: it must promote an international campaign to clean up the seas, in particular by actively supporting the ongoing negotiations for an international treaty to combat plastic pollution, and also actively contribute to the drafting of an international treaty for the protection of the deep seabed, starting with the establishment of a moratorium on mining in the international deep seabed in order to preserve these ecosystems as well as on drilling in the Mediterranean; It must also develop overseas maritime cooperation with neighbouring States, limit the relocation of production to end this great move from the world whose effects are disastrous on the sea and the climate, fight overfishing, etc. I pass, for lack of time, on the other measures contained in the programmatic booklet of the Common Future entitled The sea, the new frontier of humanity, but I stress that it involves a break with neoliberalism. For in the neoliberal context, the beautiful intentions for protecting the oceans, still recently at Emmanuel Macron's One Ocean Summit, will remain dead letter, when these hopes have not already been violated in five years by the majority who pretend to embody them. Thank you, rapporteur, for this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u30	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u31	I would like to take off my rapporteur's hat to put on that of a member of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. As we know, our group is composed of Communist Members but also ultramarine Members. It is thus fundamental for us to always remember how important overseas are because they guarantee the maritime power of France; All these islands and Guyana form exceptional maritime spaces that bring our country to the second largest maritime territory in the world. We must therefore be well aware of the legitimacy of our country in order to welcome the future international organization. I understand that his seat will be in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, where ISMS is now located, but I have also heard colleagues suggest moving him. If that were to be the case, I think it will have to stay on the Seine axis, even if it goes all the way... I will then be proud to welcome this seat to Le Havre. But, as I said in committee, as much as I am in order for the Ministry of the Sea to move to Le Havre – and he will be well received there – I think that an international organisation must be at the crossroads of international roads, and that the Paris region, especially because of its airports, makes it possible to facilitate the reception of delegations. We are gathered today to discuss the future of the International Maritime Signs Association at an institutional but also technological and, let us say, political level. And it was in that capacity that our group wanted to take the floor this morning by refusing to apply the simplified examination procedure on this ratification bill. Indeed, the new maritime freight revolution introduces the challenge of a new aid to navigation, an aid all the more important as ships tend to become totally autonomous. It is a choice of society with which Parliament must be involved in order to think about it. We must ask ourselves the question of the impact of these new technologies – autonomous aircraft, drones but also perhaps tomorrow cars and autonomous ships – on the society of tomorrow. A global reflection on the limits of the uses of artificial intelligence must be carried out by us, elected, with the population, and also by the engineers and members of the organizations concerned, such as this future international organization. Communist deputies are not against progress; They only want it to be used to help and accompany the human and not to replace it. If all these new technologies serve to alleviate the most challenging tasks for humans, it is a step forward, but if they only maximize the benefit of shipping companies, it will have no interest in humanity. Moreover, we must not forget that the technologies prepared for this new revolution remain extremely fragile, as I was able to observe on the occasion of my information mission on space diplomacy with my colleague Pierre Cabaré. Satellites that guide navigation by allowing virtual marking to be put in place are subject to significant hazards, among which are, first of all, space debris but also solar storms that we still expect very badly and which, tomorrow, could prove very dangerous. We recommended in our report that the risk culture be expanded to include high-tech and digital technologies. Civil security thus provides for the use of a network of amateur radios to communicate throughout the world in the event of a general cut-off of communications. This example allows us to understand the importance of the redundancy of technologies and the resilience of our information systems. In an enlightening hearing, Mr. Vincent Denamur, Deputy Director of Maritime Services and Control at the Department of the Sea, indicated that an accidentology specific to the new digital navigation systems had arisen because some captains sometimes had blind confidence in their electronic tool. This is a major project that the new ISM and the IMO will have to take care of. As regards the staff of the future organisation, as I said in committee yesterday morning, my first reaction as a Communist MEP was to ask me about working conditions and whether they will be maintained. I know a headquarters agreement is under discussion. I do not know if he will be subject to our assembly, but we will in any case remain very attentive to their working conditions. This morning we are witnessing the birth of an international organization, or rather the birth of an already major organization, since it has already shown all its qualities, all its know-how, and that it now has an academy in which many foreign delegations go for their training, which allows for an excellent sharing of good practices. [[Mr Didier Quentin and Mr Alain David applaud]] In conclusion, Minister, I would like to thank you for the work done by French diplomacy and to ask you to convey my thanks to the Minister of the Sea, who helped me get on with this issue. It has been very attentive to the implementation of this Convention. And I must associate you with what my colleague Didier Quentin said, because if Cordouan's lighthouse has been listed as a World Heritage Site, I believe that a Minister of Culture, whom you know well, has something to do with it, since he had prepared the dossier: this minister was you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u32	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u33	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I note that the vote has been taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u35	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of three bills authorizing the approval of international agreements (No 4233, 5023; 4821, 5022; 4868, 5026). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put each of them directly to the vote, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-17-O1158.u36	Next sitting, Monday, 21 February, at 4 p.m.: Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, or on further reading, of the proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation. The meeting is adjourned.
