ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the draft law on combating financial exclusion and capping of bank charges (No 4852, 4963).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began discussion of the articles of the draft law, with amendments Nos 8 and 6 on the additional article after Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u3	Amendment No 4 is not being defended. I have before me two amendments on the additional article after Article 2, Nos 8 and 6, which may be discussed jointly. The rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u4	It is intended to introduce a penalty in the event of banks exceeding the limits of fees set out in the law. Currently, the only possible sanctions are those that can be imposed by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority (ACPR). However, without a legal basis, a client who is the victim of an exceedance of the ceiling of the intervention fee or of an exceedance of the overall ceiling has no concrete recourse. In order for a text to be effective and truly binding, it must be accompanied by sanctions. The Government's partnership logic has not been sufficiently conclusive, as evidenced by the still very high level of costs, a sign of an insufficiently binding ceiling: in fact, only a quarter of those who have subscribed to the specific offer benefit from the ceiling, due to avoidance strategies on the part of banks. The aim of the amendment is to make the ceiling of costs effective in the event of an overrun. Such penalties exist in the Monetary and Financial Code (CMF) for other infringements, e.g. failure to make available the applicable general and tariff conditions. This proposal is therefore not a particular innovation. The committee rejected this amendment; In my personal capacity as the author, I am of course in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u5	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u6	I'm walking in the footsteps of my colleague from Courson. Currently, no criminal penalties are provided for the bank's imposition of incident charges above the statutory ceiling. It is this system of impunity based on great complexity that causes the citizen to find himself totally disarmed in the face of what is imposed upon him. The amendment is intended to apply to infringements concerning the ceiling of bank charges violations already provided for in the monetary and financial code in the event of banks failing to know of certain of their obligations. In order to give our fellow citizens some power over banks, we must ensure that abuses of those who cheat are punished.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u7	The rapporteur has the floor to give the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u8	On the substance, I believe that our colleague is right, and his amendment is based on the same inspiration as the one I defended earlier. Nevertheless, it faces the problem of proportionality between sanctions and penalties. I therefore call on our colleague to withdraw it, because my proposal is that the ceiling should be exceeded. The committee gave an opinion against this amendment; It will also be an unfavorable opinion in a personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u9	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u10	Unfavorable opinion on both amendments. I would point out that the DGCCRF services – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention – already have the means to sanction the banking practices of failing to comply with or circumventing the ceilings resulting from Article L. 312-1-3 of the Monetary and Financial Code. They are entitled to observe by record commercial practices aimed at misleading the consumer and consisting, for example, of creating a distortion between the information on bank charges displayed in the tariff documentation and the charges actually applied, leading to an exceedance of the ceilings, or to omit or provide, on a temporary basis, information relating to the billing of successive mails to the customer intended to inform him of the unauthorised debiting situation of his bank account. Such practices are punishable by criminal penalties of a delictial level. In addition, exceeding the statutory limits on bank charges by credit institutions is punishable by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority, which may impose disciplinary and monetary penalties following adversarial proceedings. The findings drawn up by the officers of the DGCCRF may be reported to the Supervisory and Resolution Authority. Since 2015, the DGCCRF has carried out three control campaigns on bank charges, which include verifying the information given on fees and their legality. The checks were carried out during each campaign in some 60 departments and led, where necessary, to the drawing up of warnings and minutes. For example, the control campaign that took place in 2019 resulted in 531 visits, 39 warnings and 4 minutes. Even though I share your willingness to sanction illegal practices, there are already criminal sanctions. Every year, I repeat, the DGCCRF carries out control campaigns, draws up minutes and forwards them to the judicial authority, and we will continue these controls with great vigilance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u11	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u12	I would like to make it clear, in addition to the previous remarks, that since February 2020, associations have been able to seize a cell from the Banque de France to testify to irregularities practised by banks. I think it's a plus. It goes hand in hand with the fact that it has made public the criteria for the identification and detection of fragile customers, which makes it possible to make the rights of consumers more enforceable by associations. At the same time, in February 2020, the minister proposed to go through the name and shame as well. Of course, this is not a sanction, but the procedure has important commercial consequences for the banks appointed for failing to comply with the commitments made to the State and the Minister, particularly with regard to the detection of fragile customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u13	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u14	It aims to prevent double penalties in the case of administrative seizure to third-party holders or attachments, which are already very expensive to those who suffer them, even if they are considered deserved. We do not want to add to this a vicious circle of bank charges that would aggravate their difficulties. If some behaviour is actually to be punished, everyone will agree that a double sanction that would prolong the discovery of these persons and would require them to incur additional bank charges is not tolerable. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to avoid double punishment by exempting customers affected by these seizures from bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u15	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u16	Two amendments raise the same problem: at present, whether for attachment or administrative seizure, there is not only no individual ceiling, but the costs are not included in the overall ceiling for persons in financial fragility. You have a choice between the two amendments. Mr Corbière's amendment No 7 establishes that there is no charge. Of course, there is a criticism: all work deserves pay, as they say. Amendment No 13, which I defend, sets a ceiling of EUR 25 per month for people in financial fragility and EUR 20 for those who have subscribed to the specific offer, with a ceiling of EUR 200 per year. [[Smile]] The first of these two amendments has not been discussed in committee and, personally, for the reason I have just explained, I am against it. The second was not discussed in committee, but I am in favour of it, being one of the co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u17	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u18	I understand the concerns of Messrs. Corbière and Courson, but the Government is against these amendments. It is normal for a salary garnishment or third-party notice to be billed by a bank to its client. This type of transaction generates procedures and checks for the bank for which it is legitimate for the bank to be remunerated. As you know, the Government has taken your concerns into account and we have already intervened to avoid abusive practices: since 1 January 2019, these charges have been capped, for the entire population, at a maximum of 10 per cent of the amount seized and up to 100 euros. This seems reasonable to us, as long as all measures are taken to avoid abusive decisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u19	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u20	I am astonished because we conducted research with the administrators and we did not find this provision. What is the basis of the 100 Euro cap? In addition, the second amendment I am proposing is harder, since it limits the costs to EUR 25 per operation for a person in a situation of financial fragility.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u22	In addition, your device escapes the global cap. What is the Government's position on its integration into this cap?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u23	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u24	It is normal that these costs do not fall within the overall cap, as they are of a different nature. I confess that I do not have in mind the exact article that answers your question, Mr. de Courson, but we will send it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u25	Amendment No 13 by the rapporteur has already been defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u26	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u27	I would like to come back to a written question that MP François-Michel Lambert had tabled in 2018 on bank charges. At the time, the Ministry of Economy had responded with commitments: "The minister wanted the ceiling of all bank charges for all beneficiaries of the specific offer to 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year. Finally, following the recommendations of the Financial Sector Advisory Committee (FCAC) in its report on bank incident charges, it was decided to strengthen the action of the banking profession in the prevention and limitation of banking incidents", etc. These are beautiful words, but people in great difficulty can't find an answer. Earlier, I heard you say that a name and shame strategy should be applied to banking institutions. Yet, at present, those who are pointed at are those who find themselves in impossible situations. I have waited for the last article of this text to be examined in order to express my frustration at your inability to understand that the loss of a few dozen euros can despair some. It is quite like when your majority said that a reduction in the amount of the LPA – personalized housing assistance – of 5 euros would not bother anyone, while it has hindered and continues to hinder a large number of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u28	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 9 and 12, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u29	Article 3 consists of two parts; The first concerns domestic violence. When a couple has a joint account, if one of the spouses is a victim of domestic violence, they must be allowed to open an individual account immediately. Between the introduction of our bill and its consideration today, the Act of December 24, 2021 to accelerate economic and professional equality was enacted. The latter extended the benefit of the legal procedure to the account, thus resolving the problem. However, one point still deserves to be discussed. Shouldn't it be explicitly stated that this new wording of the law applies to victims of domestic violence? That is the subject of Amendment No 9. I also look forward to the Government's position on Amendment No. 12. The committee has not considered Amendment No 9, which I am obviously in favour of. As for point 12, I am also in favour of it, despite the committee's unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u30	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u31	Mr rapporteur, I would ask you to withdraw Amendment No 9. Indeed, the Government confirms to you that the law of 24 December 2021, resulting from Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain's proposal for a law aimed at accelerating economic and professional equality, has changed the conditions of referral to the Banque de France for the procedure of right to the account. It is now possible for anyone to initiate the procedure. This development, which has been prepared for a long time by the Ministry of Finance and the Banque de France, will benefit in particular victims of domestic violence, including when they hold an account with their abusive spouse, by enabling them to activate their right to the account, with a view to emancipation. I am against Amendment No 12, which concerns a completely different subject. The procedure of entitlement to the account provided for in Article L. 312-1 of the Monetary and Financial Code allows any natural or legal person, under certain conditions, to apply to the Banque de France, in the event of refusal to open an account by a credit institution, for the latter to designate another institution which has the obligation to open a bank account. However, this procedure is subject to national and European anti-money laundering obligations. The provisions of the Fourth European Anti-Money Laundering Directive inter alia prohibit credit institutions from opening an account to a customer whose identity has not been verified. Certain modulations in the application of these verification measures are provided for in European law; In particular, they may lead to delaying the verification of the client's identity. However, this requires a low degree of client risk. However, Amendment No 12 is intended to apply this modulation to the account procedure by default, as if it were necessarily in a situation of low risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. However, there is no evidence to confirm this assumption. I recall that persons who are subject to measures to freeze their assets for terrorist-related reasons may in law and in fact benefit from the procedure of the right to account. The proposed development is therefore absolutely not in line with the spirit of European law, nor with the spirit of the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which is currently evaluating France. In addition, the Government has for several months been working with the Bank of France on a reform of the account procedure, which will address the difficulties identified. Indeed, while the procedure is working satisfactorily, some points of improvement have been highlighted by the Court of Auditors in its 2020 annual public report. The stricter framework for certain key phases of this procedure, as well as the introduction of new information requirements for banking institutions, provided for in this reform, which is scheduled to enter into force at the end of the first half of 2022, will make it more effective. I am therefore against your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u32	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u33	I withdraw Amendment No 9, since you have publicly declared that the law in force applies to cases of domestic violence. As for Amendment No 12, yes, it concerns a completely different subject, that of the fight against money laundering and terrorism. Currently, a bank cannot open an account until it has verified that there is no risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. It was pointed out to me that the removal of this obligation – which I proposed, in order to save time and reduce the deadline for opening accounts – would be contrary to Community law. You've taken that position back.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u34	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u35	That is not correct. Under the Fourth European Anti-Money Laundering Directive, banks can start by opening the account and only then carry out the controls provided for in the fight against money laundering and terrorism. Article L. 561-5 of the Monetary and Financial Code, which transposes this provision, specifies that where the risk of money laundering "appears to be low", the verification of documents may take place "in the course of the establishment of the business relationship". Banks must take full advantage of this possibility – this is not the case at the moment. Amendment No 12 will therefore be useful. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Monetary and Financial Code provides that, as part of the account entitlement procedure, the accounts must be opened by the credit institution within three days of receipt of the necessary documents. Between the filing of the application at the Banque de France and the opening of the account by the credit institution, the total period is fourteen days – this is an average, which varies from bank to bank. And I'm not saying it, but the Court of Auditors. This is due, among other things, to the documents requested. We demand papers and papers from extremely modest people, in financial difficulty! Other measures could be taken to remedy the situation, but they are regulatory in nature – I think, among other things, dematerialization. This amendment fits well into the legislative field. It would ensure that banks do not hide behind the obligation to carry out the controls provided for in the monetary and financial code in the context of the fight against money laundering and terrorism in order to delay the opening of the account, whereas Community law already allows, where the risk is low, to carry out the controls only after it has been opened. What danger would there be between us in adopting this amendment? It would be only in one case in a million, once every x years, that one would discover that the person in difficulty having opened an account is actually a gangster or a jihadist!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u36	It would still be a slight problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u37	President Pompidou wanted to reiterate one principle: we must avoid bothering 99.99% of people because of a 0.01% minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u38	That's right! It's like the vaccine pass! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u39	This general principle is valid for many of our discussions! If I withdraw Amendment No 9, I shall therefore maintain Amendment No 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u40	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor to support Amendment No 17, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u41	The mission of bank accessibility remains the exclusive responsibility of La Poste, while, as a result of the current crisis, the number of people in situations of bank fragility is increasing sharply. In addition, 30% of the beneficiaries of a specific offer are in La Poste – on this point too, we have had a great deal of difficulty in obtaining figures. This is not without its implications, as the financial compensation that the State pays to the banks for this service proves to be insufficient. The two representatives of the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) we interviewed confirmed that many of La Poste's clients were in a situation of bank fragility. The purpose of this amendment is to obtain details on the distribution between banks of obligations relating to customers in difficult financial situations and the cost to each other, in order to better distribute them between La Poste and other banking institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u42	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u43	You are asking for a report on banking institutions' obligations to vulnerable audiences, detailing the effectiveness of these policies and the impact on banks of lower ceilings. I am not convinced of the need for such a report. First of all, the Observatoire de l'inclusion bancaire – the OIB –, of which we spoke a lot during our discussions, can already gather this kind of information. In addition, a number of reports have recently been published on the subject, including that of the Court of Auditors – of which we have been very inspired by each other – and that drawn up by our colleague Philippe Chassating in the framework of the parliamentary mission on the prevention of over-indebtedness and the development of microcredit. Finally, I believe that in view of the objective pursued, mentioned in the explanatory memorandum – knowing the distribution of fragile customers between La Poste and the other banks – the report requested is a little broad. The committee did not consider this amendment; In my personal capacity, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u44	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u45	Unfavorable opinion. The practical modalities for the implementation of the bank inclusion policy and the assessment of its impact on fragile audiences have already been widely documented for several years. In fact, the OIB, which involves representatives of anti-exclusion associations, professional banking federations and administrations, publishes a detailed report each year that details the results of each aspect of this public policy. This allows us to benefit from an exhaustive view of the progress made on all the protections in terms of the right to the account, financial fragility and the capping of bank charges. The Government has also focused on strengthening transparency obligations for the banking sector in relation to accounts held by fragile clients. The order made by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery on 7 September 2020 sets out the information on these accounts to be transmitted by banking institutions on a quarterly basis to the OIB. In addition, reports are regularly drawn up by the Bank Rate Observatory concerning bank rates or – as you ask – by the Member – the bank accessibility mission, particularly during the process of notifying the Commission of the State aid for this mission. The existing materials and tools seem to me to be sufficiently robust and diverse to ensure comprehensive information on banking inclusion policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u46	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u47	It is not a report we need, but the passage of this bill! All articles were rejected; We will therefore not vote on the whole text. In any case, I thank Charles de Courson and all the Members of the Libertés et Territoires Group for launching the idea of a thorough regulation of banking commissions. These debates, which animated the House for part of the afternoon and at the beginning of the evening, have shown that many countries, when they were said to be more liberal than we, have adopted such a regulation; Many of the neighbouring countries are committed to these common-sense measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Public opinion will note that some still believe in the invisible hand of the market – these are the first chapters of the first courses in economics – while others, because they are on the ground, see that all this does not work. If we don't play our part, if we don't put public power back where we need it, our fellow citizens will look at us with shock, thinking that we don't understand and that we are on the side of finance, great capital and a frantic liberalism in which no one trusts. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and GDR groups]] That is what I wanted to say tonight, since we will not have explanations of vote. I regret that we have not taken advantage of this unique opportunity, especially for the 3.8 million French people most in need. We shall hold these discussions with the necessary appropriation by the next President of the Republic, who will consider that social justice is necessary in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u48	Our president is a visionary!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u49	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u50	It is my turn to thank Mr de Courson and the Libertés et Territoires Group for allowing us to discuss these issues. Let us get out of the caricature: we do not believe in free market forces, or in free competition, on the contrary. Otherwise, we would not have intervened in 2018 to try to regulate those who were affected by bank incident charges. We have set a ceiling of 20 and 25 euros, so that the most vulnerable are protected. We share the importance of the issue; We diverge on the method. We agree that there has been progress during the legislature. Efforts must now focus on specific supply; The menu and content will probably need to be improved. Our efforts should be focused on this point: 4 million people are detected as financially fragile; only 700000 are holders of the specific offer. There is a vehicle here to try to better protect people. That was said earlier: the question of self-employed and self-employed is a real question. The banking cost for those who have these statutes must be better known and better controlled. I share your struggle: we should make progress in the next parliamentary term by better documenting this subject, which is still the subject of contradictory information. In essence, the question asked was that of the banking model. Is it based on bank incidents or anything else? I share your question about this. The banking model should be better understood. In the context of a future mandate, we should look at what the banking model is based on and where it is headed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u51	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u52	The question before us this evening, through these debates, is the model of society that we want. When I was a lawyer in a rural commune, I remembered having to deal with cases where people were in abyssal difficulties: they were asking for huge loans, via the Internet, sometimes using forged identity documents. Before the family judge, they detailed logics aimed at bothering the other party. With the destructuring of human and social relations, in particular concerning banking issues – earlier on the essential role of post offices in villages – has been lost the thread that must guide each of us in relation to the commitments he makes. The State and the Republic must also re-establish the conditions for this essential link, in order to avoid the unconsciously accompanying – I am talking about society as a whole – people to get into great difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u53	It's not possible to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u54	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u55	I'm interrupting you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u56	Everyone knows you're rude, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u57	When you despise the poor people, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u58	I'm just saying that people can get caught in a system that goes beyond them. It is illusory, angelic or demagogic to make everyone believe that they are masters of their destiny: I let you check the box you want. The banking system as a whole is a monster, which can sometimes crush some of our fellow citizens. I wanted to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u59	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u60	In these exchanges, which serve as a conclusion to the debates, I thank Courson's colleague and the Libertés et Territoires Group...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u61	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u62	[[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] ... for proposing this subject, which concerns several million of our fellow citizens: between 3.8 and 6 million. First, the opacity of this figure is a political problem that needs to be addressed. I repeat that we should require banks to communicate the profits they make each year with bank charges, so that we can discuss them on the basis of rational elements, including with them, since they contest the figures. Secondly, whatever you think of the behaviour of some of our fellow citizens – I have heard of financial education – there is no justification for what costs a bank almost nothing, such as sending an email, to be charged 15, 18 or 20 euros. Nothing, no logic. It's banditry! It's stealing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u63	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u64	We're selling you something that's already part of the service. Like the cup on the markets, which is forbidden, it's around you! We missed this subject. I heard the minister say that it was normal, that it had a cost to the banks. This cost is overbilled, to a point that is shocking and that touches the scandal! It has the consequence of accumulating difficulties for people who are already in difficulty. The problem does not simply concern the number of our fellow citizens who are slipping into financial difficulties; The problem is that banking institutions are adding...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u65	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u66	... in a shameful way! The sanction system is very weak. Without wishing to distort his remarks, the Minister referred earlier to four minutes which have been drawn up, if I have understood correctly. I'm not a financial control department, but we've all had in our permanence people coming to show us shocking things. It is hard to believe that, at the end of the month, there are also few sanctions, while people find themselves with 800 euros to pay at the end of the month, because of the bank charges that have accumulated in different ways. In short, this task will have to be resumed, since we have not been able to do so today. Once again, we have heard the speech of saying, "Let us trust the different regulations in place," which ignores the fact that we need to legislate, because banking institutions only understand that. The situation will continue and it is a shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u67	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u68	In conclusion to this debate, I too would like to thank the Libertés et territoires Group and Charles de Courson for having tabled the bill. During the break, I sent several emails, because there is a big problem in my constituency. It's very simple: the main lessor HLM made reminders of charges, which turned out to be wrong. In concrete terms, this means that the bulk of the tenants, who have been invited to authorise bank levies for their rents and expenses, end up with sums of 300, 400 or 500 euros taken from their account.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u69	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u70	They will probably be returned in two or three months by the lessor, who begins to acknowledge his error. But people at the SMIC, at the minimum social level or unemployed, will have for three months an overdraft on their account which will be billed to them at a high price.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u71	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u72	It's an infernal spiral: the more difficult you are, the more banks break you. That's €6.5 billion for banks! There is something outrageous and rather scandalous about this. The bill was relatively modest, since it was not intended to remove the fees, but to cap them so that there was no exaggeration, and to guarantee the right to the account. That was a reasonable proposal. I do not understand the obstinacy to refuse this advance aimed at protecting the most fragile of our fellow citizens. What do banks do with this system? When a person is in trouble, drowning, rather than reaching out to him, they put their feet on his head to sink him a little bit more. That's not right! Many accidents are not due to bad faith or irresponsibility, but to life's difficulties. I have just taken the example of the rental charges that have been improperly called and taken, but there may be many others.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u73	That's the principle: "I want to piss them off"!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u74	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u75	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I would also like to thank the Libertés et territoires Group and Charles de Courson for the bill. I was telling Alexis Corbière, the first time I spoke in the Chamber was on this subject, when he considered a bill he had tabled. I'm having a hard time hearing things. For ten years, I chaired a Social Action Commission, where people sometimes found themselves in mid-treatment because they were in ordinary illness. When you have 700 euros a month, you still need to live; So when they saw advertising for Sofinco or something, they were tempted. It's not a management problem, it's just that you need to feed your children, to move around, to warm up, to live. The State must be protective. You have raised this point: we need to work on these credit agencies, which lend money easily, at rates of almost 12%. That's a scandal, too. Here too, we will have to legislate, because it is scandalous.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u76	The bill does not go far enough, which is why it is better not to vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u77	[[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] It's better to start small and finish big than do nothing at all! With regard to the specific offer, people can stay there very little time, before returning to fragile customers. In the 3.8 million fragile clients, a third pay fairly large bank charges. Why do they not benefit from the specific offer, to be protected? There were many other subjects, we could have moved a little further. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for bringing forward this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u78	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u79	Alas!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u80	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to grant political asylum to Julian Assange and to facilitate access to refugee status for foreign whistleblowers (No. 4867).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u81	In the general debate, Ms. Jennifer De Temmerman spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u82	For the past ten years, Julian Assange has been subjected to political and judicial harassment. For what crime? That of having done his job as a journalist and of having carried high freedom of expression and freedom to inform. For doing a work of truth. Imprisoned, isolated, treated as one should never treat an individual in a country signatory to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR). Since 2019, Julian Assange has been in pre-trial detention at Belmarsh High Security Prison in the United Kingdom. The UN Special Rapporteur on torture denounced his conditions of detention. This man may be sentenced to 175 years in prison. If it's not the death penalty, it looks strange. How could France, as a country of human rights, continue to speak for a longer time on this question of the defence of freedoms? The creator of WikiLeaks became one of the largest whistleblowers by broadcasting millions of confidential and compromising documents to major foreign powers in 2010. This man has served our nation, as well as other allies. Julian Assange revealed that many of our heads of state and ministers of the economy had been spied on by the United States, as had the former German Chancellor. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] This motion for a resolution raises the question of the recognition of the nation. A nation is great and respected only when it is strong and independent. Remember that Barack Obama himself forgave Chelsea Manning. Julian Assange defends peace by truth. He has been nominated nine times for the Nobel Peace Prize, supported by several laureates. It is a matter of justice and tribute to all those who struggle throughout the world and throughout the ages, sometimes at the risk of their lives, to inform, denounce, defend peace, freedoms and human rights. Last Tuesday, the Joint Joint Committee was concluded on the bills put forward by Sylvain Waserman, inspired in particular by the report of two other deputies, Raphaël Gauvain and Olivier Marleix. In particular, I would like to welcome the commitment of our colleague Sylvain Waserman. From the hemicycle of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) to ours, it has made it possible to position France as an international example of legislation on whistleblowers, which could be confirmed today by the strong and symbolic gesture of voting in favour of the right of asylum for Julian Assange. This is the subject of the first point of the motion for a resolution. Of course, Julian Assange does not currently reside in our territory. This is precisely the purpose of the second point: to propose a solution that would allow Julian Assange, but also other whistleblowers, to apply for a humanitarian visa or asylum through the consular network, and the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons (OFPRA) to process applications remotely. Finally, the last two points aim to reinforce France's advantageous position, by inviting the Council of Europe – on the initiative of so many other conventions, such as the European Convention on Human Rights or the Istanbul Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence – to start work on a major convention, to define and grant refugee status to whistleblowers, and the Government to seize the tremendous opportunity of the current French Presidency of the Council of the European Union to make this a priority for the work of the Community institutions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LT group. – Cédric Villani also applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, whatever the fate of this motion for a resolution, today is a victory because, by making Julian Assange's name resonate tonight, we are giving a voice to the one who no longer has one, to the one who must be silent. We are some 60 Members of Parliament from all political sides who have joined this motion for a resolution in defending Julian Assange and, more broadly, all whistleblowers. I am aware of this initiative, which has such a special connection with France. This week, through the texts we are examining, I invite you to demonstrate the greatness of France, to defend the truth, peace and their fighters, the whistleblowers. Across Europe and the world, many voices stand in support of Julian Assange. Tonight, we amplify an echo that won't stop there. There will be other nights, other days, when we will continue together, in France and beyond our borders, this struggle for what is right. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC, FI and GDR groups. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] I will conclude by thanking the members of my group for their trust, Cédric Villani, Jean Lassalle and François Ruffin for the joint work, and all those who, in France and in the world, have given and will give their support to this cause. Thank you to his lawyers, to all the associations and to all the unknown soldiers of this great cause. For his wife, children, father and loved ones. For Julian Assange.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u83	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u84	Julian Assange's story upsets us all, because it is both a journalist passionate about humanity, truth and justice, a whistleblower determined to protect us and a human who has been broken and stopped living. I am deeply convinced that Julian Assange is one of the heroes of our time. It embodies the democratic values as we know them since the Second World War: at the service of human beings and of respect for the rules laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. Many countries – signatories of this convention like France – go to his bedside and try to give him their full support for the service rendered. All these countries, like France, defend freedom of the press, the freedom to discover the truth, to make it public and thus to protect citizens, their dignity, their health and all their freedoms. Colleagues, it is also these same values that bring us together today around this text, in order to grant the political asylum to Julian Assange. We can already be proud to give all the place in this House, the house of the people, across seas, oceans and continents, to this discussion: how can we help it? How can we unite with our international partners for this same cause? What's the way out? Unfortunately, time is running out. His companion Stella Morris and his father John Shipton, whom we received at the National Assembly on November 16, told us: "Every week he is weaker. They're killing Julian Assange right now, slowly. Thank you for doing everything you can to save her life. We, MPs, the cry from the heart of Julian Assange's companion upset us and reminded us that we must move forward as quickly as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have co-signed this motion for a resolution...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u85	Lassalle, president!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u86	...by my colleague Jennifer De Temmerman, from all sides, in a trans-party approach. We are able to overcome our differences and sensitivities to unite in this struggle, for our deepest values, in this historic moment. We are also three candidates in the presidential election of 2022 who co-signed this motion for a resolution. It is therefore our duty to seize this debate and make it public, opening it to our fellow citizens. We can find a consensus to provide a legal framework to support Julien Assange. We wish to see him free tomorrow so that he can continue his commitment to freedoms. Tonight, we are here to recall and to vote in favour of him, in the long fight that awaits him. This message is vital to him. It is also important to send it to all journalists and to all whistleblowers threatened and imprisoned all over the world: we do not forget them and we will always fight, to the end, to defend them, as they fight for us. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and FI groups. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] I thank you for being here for Julian Assange, and I particularly thank my colleague, the Member of Parliament Jennifer De Temmerman, for this motion for a resolution, my colleagues, Members Cédric Villani and François Ruffin, for accepting this trans-partisan approach, and my group, Liberties and Territories, for allowing us to carry this text in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, Julian Assange's fate is in our hands!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u87	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u88	The action of whistleblowers is essential in our democracy, because they bring to our knowledge the abuses and abuses of those who believe themselves above the law. In recent years, many cases of tax evasion, abuse of power, civil victims of vexation or torture have been denounced through the mobilization of men and women committed to the public interest. In the face of those who use their position to deliberately violate the rules, faced with those who believe themselves to be assured of impunity, these men and women show great courage to dare publicly denounce them. This is at the heart of a process of moralization that affects our society as a whole. Citizens demand greater transparency, both in terms of state action and against politicians, public entities and private companies. The whistleblowers aspire to be actors in our democracies, not powerless spectators in the face of the drifts they witness. They act where our control and regulatory systems are, most often, failing. However, denouncing these criminal acts is a decision that can upset a lifetime. The risk of reprisals proves to be a hindrance, as they can be violent and destructive to yourself and others. For whistleblowers, there is often a life before and a life after the alert. That's what Julian Assange saw. For ten years, Julian Assange has been a hunted, spied, spied upon man. For ten years, Julian Assange has been deprived of liberty: first at the Embassy of Ecuador in London, which he could not leave under pain of being arrested by the British police, and, since 2019, in a high-security London prison, in a particularly repressive detention setting. Yes, Julian Assange is a political prisoner. As such, the UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment and punishment stated that Julian Assange presents "all typical symptoms of prolonged exposure to psychological torture, chronic anxiety and intense psychological trauma". In the eyes of the United States, Julian Assange is guilty of espionage: he risks 175 years in prison for this. In our view, Julian Assange has denounced barbaric acts and unspeakable blunders that had to be made public. I recall that it was thanks to Julian Assange's information that we learned that three presidents of the French Republic and two French ministers were spied on by the American state. [[MM. Jean Lassalle and Cédric Villani applaud]] It's time to put an end to Julian Assange's harassment. It's time to end these ten long years of a stolen life. Those who want to imprison him use him as an example. Through his experience, it is all the future whistleblowers that are trying to deter action. In the face of blackmail, repression and intimidation, France must be distinguished by unwavering support for these men and women at risk. When a whistleblower is in danger because of the information he has disclosed, and he has not committed any unlawful act in the eyes of our law, our country must stand by him, providing him with support and protection. As France already does for people threatened in Afghanistan, for example, asylum applications for foreign whistleblowers must be facilitated. Where exceptional circumstances prevent the whistleblower from travelling, he or she must be allowed to apply for asylum, wherever he or she is, and it must be treated without distinction. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, SOC and FI groups. – Mr. Cédric Villani also applauds]] Last November, our assembly passed a much more protective bill for whistleblowers than our current legislation. While I and my group welcomed the progress that this text is making, I regret that we have not taken this opportunity to better protect whistleblowers outside our borders. For example, the Democratic and Republican Left Group supports Julian Assange and all whistleblowers. Their control is valuable to our democracies, as it is carried out by a requirement of ethics and probity. We therefore fully support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u89	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u90	The motion for a resolution by the Liberties and Territories Group rightly raises the question of the protection of whistleblowers in general and, more particularly, the situation of Julian Assange, an emblematic figure. Today incarcerated in Britain after facing exile and inhuman treatment, his freedom remains compromised and his future uncertain. No human rights defender can bear such a disproportionate situation. The UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment reminds us of this in his opinion. Recent work has shown that none of the political groups in the Chamber are insensitive to the fate of the whistleblowers. If our assembly cannot remain indifferent, it should nevertheless express itself, in order to make a tangible change in the situation of Julien Assange and all the other whistleblowers. However, this motion for a resolution contains a number of contentious points which it is difficult to ignore, given the stakes it intends to defend. The first point is that it presents the decision to grant refugee status as a matter of the sole political will of the executive. However, the right to asylum is based on a legal framework which requires the fulfilment of conditions and the observance of objectively established procedures. Also, it is not the French government that grants refugee status, but the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons, whose decisions are taken in the light of the jurisprudence of the National Court of Asylum – CNDA. Furthermore, under Article L. 121-7 of the Code on the Entry and Residence of Aliens and the Right of Asylum – CESEDA – the Office shall act independently and impartially. It is clear from this that obtaining refugee status is based on rules ensuring legal certainty and equal treatment of applications, which, you will agree, can hardly be deplored by the legislator. Therefore, regardless of the assessment that everyone is free to make of Julian Assange's actions, asylum cannot under any circumstances be regarded as a consideration for a service rendered, whether proven or assumed, because it could destabilise a whole part of our right and, with it, our asylum policy. However, is reform not possible or even desirable? Probably. However, such an undertaking would require careful substantive work in order to assess the direct consequences it could have for applicants. Moreover, the rapporteur, you yourself conceded in a press article published last Wednesday that the adoption of your motion for a resolution would not allow Julian Assange to regain freedom. The intention is noble and we must adopt a position that enables us to make concrete progress. In addition, this motion for a resolution contains two quotations from members of the executive, one from the President of the Republic and the other from the current keeper of the seals. Both have been removed from their context and serve the relevance of the statement. The interview of the Head of State is based on an interview given to videographer Hugo Travers in 2019 and concerns a situation unrelated to Julian Assange's. In referring to "the freedom of individuals", the president referred in fact to a member of the special forces whose name had been disclosed in the press and who had acted in court on his own behalf against a journalist. When Éric Dupond-Moretti made the mentioned statements, he was not yet the keeper of the seals, but, indeed, Julian Assange's lawyer. As you will have understood, as it is written, we cannot support this motion for a resolution. On the other hand, as a follow-up to Mr Sylvain Waserman's proposal for a law, the text of which we will be considering next week from the Joint Joint Committee, we are firmly convinced that it is necessary and relevant to continue the work undertaken in favour of the protection of whistleblowers. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] As the motion for a resolution suggests, we must look to the European Union and the Council of Europe, in order to draw up with our partners a regime capable of addressing systemic shortcomings that are detrimental to all whistleblowers, without exception. In the light of this point of convergence, we are therefore determined and ready to take all the necessary steps, Madam rapporteur, alongside you, to work effectively to strengthen the protection measures of all whistleblowers. For all these reasons, and convinced that it is appropriate to make collective progress on these issues, the Group of the European People's Party calls on the rapporteur to withdraw her motion for a resolution. If so, we would therefore have to reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u91	But that's all they do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u92	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u93	The whistleblowers are today important guarantors of our freedoms and democracy. In the service of truth, their commitment enables us to effectively combat crimes such as corruption, tax evasion, mass surveillance and industrial espionage. Yet these people often find themselves faced with a dilemma: telling the truth in the open or sacrificing a career, a daily life or a family life. Indeed, the legal and financial consequences are real and major risks to which whistleblowers are exposed today. [[Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh and Jennifer De Temmerman applaud]] [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches. – Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh and Jennifer De Temmerman, as well as Mr Cédric Villani, also applaud]] Aware of the importance of protecting the latter in order to facilitate the alert, I myself wished to sign the motion for a resolution that we are considering. I mean unambiguously that a man cannot and must not risk a century in prison for being a whistleblower. It is an unbearable violation of human rights. The case of Julian Assange poses a real challenge to our democracies. It is probably at European level that we could most usefully imagine a real right of asylum for well-known whistleblowers. I tell him – and we must tell him – our total support. We must also mobilize on the subject because it is the meaning of our humanistic and European values. This is what France is trying to do today. Our country, aware of the absolute need for whistleblowers and their interest in democracy, is fully engaged with them to ensure their protection and transparency in our societies. The bill of my colleague Sylvain Waserman, recently passed successively in both assemblies, makes whistleblowers of the pillars of our democracies. It thus reinforces the Sapin 2 law of 2016, making France a leading country in Europe and the world on the issue of whistleblowers. To return to Julian Assange, however, the situation of the whistleblower raises several questions. Mr. Assange is subject to the decisions of the English courts. It is thus in a State which guarantees individual freedoms and where justice is independent. France is not intended to interfere in the sovereign legal decisions of its allies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u94	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u95	So it is up to the United Kingdom to decide on Mr Assange's case, especially since, to our knowledge and at the time I speak to you, he has not applied for political asylum or a visa in France. If that were the case, I would remind you that it would be up to OFPRA to process its request. Neither the Government nor parliamentarians can interfere in asylum procedures. Moreover, this is not just the case of Mr Assange. As you know, voting in favour of this resolution would constitute a French interference in the legal affairs of its neighbours and would put France in a bad position in relation to international law. That is why the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will not support this text, despite the ideal it defends and the unwavering support we owe to Mr Assange and his fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u96	[[Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff protested]] We support it, but we wash our hands!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u97	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u98	I would like to thank the Liberties and Territories Group for putting this motion for a resolution on the agenda of its parliamentary niche so that we can debate and move forward, I hope, on this highly political subject. It is about protecting Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, who revealed the espionage of the Elysée by our American allies, but also all the whistleblowers pursued in this capacity. It is about defending freedoms and democracy, it is about reviving a tradition dear to France, that of being the country of human rights. We all know the story of Julian Assange, who deserves to be recalled. For revealing information of general interest through its WikiLeaks site, including espionage by the US secret services of the French President and foreign heads of government, Julian Assange has been persecuted for twelve years, wired, spyed, and constantly watched. For seven years, he took refuge in a 10 square metre room at the Embassy of Ecuador in London. Since 2019, he has been detained in a high-security English prison, pending the deliberate extradition to the United States, where he faces 175 years in prison. Julian Assange did not simply provide information of general interest to the world, he gave information particularly concerning France. Julian Assange is therefore an ally of France, but he is not protected. Yet the UN, the Council of Europe, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and journalists are demanding his release. This situation goes beyond political divisions; the fundamental principles of democracy are at stake. Because of his fundamentally political struggle, it is necessary to protect Julian Assange by granting him the right of asylum. More generally, it is essential to allow any whistleblower of foreign nationality, who has been pursued because of his struggle for freedom and democracy, to ask for protection from France. We recall that the right to asylum is a right of constitutional value in France. The National Advisory Commission on Human Rights (CNCDH) recommends that whistleblowers benefit from this right. The Socialist and Related Group, together with other political groups, had tabled an amendment to this effect on the proposal for a law by Mr Waserman to improve the protection of whistleblowers, but it was not heard by the majority. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] Because this issue is not in line with the past and we will certainly know more Julian Assange, perhaps tomorrow, there is an urgent need to guarantee real protection for whistleblowers. So, so that all those who commit themselves in the name of the general interest, sometimes at the risk of their lives, can count on France's support and benefit from its protection, we will vote for this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u99	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u100	We are meeting today to discuss, we must agree, a sensitive subject. Indeed, no one can remain insensitive to the situation of Julien Assange, who, let us recall, faces a prison sentence of 175 years for committing the crime of being a whistleblower. Of course, this is unacceptable on principle and contrary to our humanistic and European values. I would therefore like to point out that I will speak on behalf of a large majority of the Members of the Group of the European People's Party who cannot support this text, solely for reasons based on domestic law and international law. First, you invite us to grant Julian Assange political asylum. According to OFPRA, asylum is "the protection granted by a receiving State to an alien who cannot, against persecution, benefit from that of the authorities of his country of origin". Now Julian Assange is detained in Great Britain. The current risk is extradition to the United States. The right to a fair trial guaranteed by British and European rights in Article 6 of the ECHR, on the one hand, and the due process of American law protected by the Bill of Rights, on the other, are certainly different, but objectively ensure a judicial procedure worthy of major democratic countries. The granting of political refugee status to Julian Assange would be tantamount to failing to recognize the impartiality of these two judicial systems. Secondly, you call on us to facilitate access to refugee status for foreign whistleblowers and to grant them political asylum. OFPRA is now only competent to process asylum applications filed on French territory. It cannot be seized by a person who is abroad. However, a foreign national may already apply for an asylum visa from the French authorities at his place of residence. A foreign national who obtains it will be able to come to France on a regular basis and continue the asylum procedure. Therefore, this request is largely met. Thirdly, you call on us to refer the matter to the Council of Europe with a view to initiating work on a specific convention to confer refugee status on whistleblowers. Already in August 2019, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Human Rights of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with the voice of rapporteur Sylvain Waserman, invited the Committee of Ministers to launch the process of negotiating a convention on the protection of whistleblowers. This recommendation was also adopted by the Members of our group, Alexandra Louis and Dimitri Houbron. I now come to the fourth invitation, calling for whistleblowers to be a priority for the work of the Community institutions. It should be recalled here that on 23 October 2019 a European directive on the protection of persons who report violations of EU law was adopted: yet a European directive has a direct effect in the law of the countries of the Union. In France, the bill to improve the protection of whistleblowers and the proposal for an organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting has recently been passed by our Parliament. The Joint Joint Committee was concluded last Tuesday: these laws, once enacted, will make France "a leading country in Europe and around the world on the issue of whistleblowers", according to the words of rapporteur Sylvain Waserman, to which I subscribe. With these texts, our country has gone even further than the requirements laid down in the Sapin 2 Act and in the European directive, which we welcome. It should be stressed, however, that even in this context Julian Assange could not have benefited from this status because he revealed information covered by the secrecy of national defence, which are excluded from the scope of the alert allowing the recognition of the status of whistleblower. The members of the "Acting together" group will vote freely. For my part, in order to respect the will of the majority of my colleagues, I will vote against it by expressing the wish, Mr.Minister Delegate, that all means be used to ensure that Julien Assange regains freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u101	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u102	[[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] When does France grow up? When are we proud of our country? France grows when it makes its non face to the world order resonate, in the face of an unjust order. We are proud of her, proud of us, when she makes her voice heard, her voice of independence and resistance, even in the face of the superpowers. We are proud of France of 1789, our foundation, which confronted all the monarchies, all the tyranny gathered. We are proud of the non-opposed by General de Gaulle, on 18 June, to a Nazi Europe; We are proud of Dominique de Villepin's no, from Jacques Chirac's no to the war in Iraq; We are still proud of the no, launched by the French people on 29 May, against free and undistorted competition. Here's my France! [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] When, on the other hand, are we ashamed? When France bows, when it flattens, when it even shrinks, when it cuckolds and says thank you. Exactly ten years ago, thanks to Edward Snowden and Julian Assange, we learned that the NSA, the National Security Agency, the great American ears, had spyed for years on three presidents of the French Republic, Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande, as well as economic ministers, and exercised massive surveillance through 70 million telephone recordings. How did Paris react? By not reacting. "We need to keep the measure of all this," said Stéphane Le Foll, the Government spokesman at the time. "We're not here to trigger diplomatic breakdowns. There are too many links," he continued before flying to Washington, where he discussed the big transatlantic market. And François Hollande is almost happy: "President Obama, in the phone call I had with him, confirmed to me that the President of the Republic was no longer being targeted. Le Monde then concludes: "The future may one day tell why Paris has remained so discreet. » The future has just confirmed our cowardice. Because, what? France is monitored by an ally until the Elysée and we do not take any retaliatory action! We have no hint of pride, of pride. We do nothing to impose respect. This France, yes, this France that let itself be trampled, it makes me ashamed! And worse still: what help, what protection does our country bring to Edward Snowden and Julian Assange when they are chased, hunted, hunted by our American friends? None! No help! No protection! Until the act. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] On July 3, 2013, the day of shame, France refused to allow Evo Morales, the Bolivian president, to fly over our territory. Why? Because his plane was suspected of transporting Edward Snowden. Do we measure our cowardice? And for Julian Assange, so, for Julian Assange who's been locked up for ten years, what hand have we stretched? None. Nothing. Don't move towards the man who revealed that our country had been the victim of widespread espionage. We can, we must welcome Julian Assange in the name of human rights, in the name of the rights of a man never tried, never condemned and yet imprisoned. However, the UN Special Rapporteur on torture, Nils Melzer, wrote: "Julien Assange must now be released immediately, rehabilitated and compensated for the abuses and arbitrariness to which he was exposed. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u103	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u104	We can, we must welcome Julian Assange in the name of press rights, to which the reporter I am attached. What's the only crime he's committed? To have revealed truths, especially about the American wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. It was as a journalist that he aroused Washington's anger, it was as a whistleblower that he risked extradition, with 175 years in prison. But another reason should be for us, the National Assembly, to welcome Julian Assange, a reason that is dear to us, French, since he is patriotic: we must welcome him for us, even out of pride, for service to our nation. We must welcome him for France, for our country, by choosing the path of pride rather than shame, by choosing freedom rather than servility.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u105	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u106	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and LT groups]] As André Malraux said: "The word "no", firmly opposed to force, possesses a mysterious power that comes from the bottom of centuries. All the highest spiritual figures of mankind have said no to Caesar. The slave always says yes. And you, you will again say yes, hide behind great principles, behind technical motives, behind legal pretexts, behind beautiful sentences in which you will declare to give all your support, then you will wash your hands, such as Pontius Pilate. You are not going to signify any disagreement or refusal in the United Kingdom and the United States. You will choose the path of shame, the path of servility!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u107	Bravo Ruffin: You spoke plain!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u108	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u109	Before I begin, I would like to thank Aurélien Taché for leaving me his place to speak in the general discussion. "Do you have anything to say? This was the question that could be read, on May 1, 2015, on a sign placed next to three life-size statues of Julian Assange, Bradley Chelsea Manning and Edward Snowden on Alexanderplatz in Berlin, three people who have revolutionized journalism and who today, perhaps more than anyone else, are acting as whistleblowers. The revelations disclosed by Manning and published by WikiLeaks concerned war crimes in Afghanistan and Iraq. Snowden's operations, which received the active support of Assange, focused on digital spying operations of an unprecedented scale in the history of humanity. They have shattered the statue of the United States, which protects individual freedoms. They have brought journalism and the world into a new era. Without them, we would still not have a general data protection regulation in Europe. Like so many other whistleblowers in the United States, they paid a heavy price, but heavier than their counterparts and much more than the war criminals they denounced: Manning, after nine months in prison, was sentenced to thirty-five years in prison, then pardoned in extremis by President Obama; Snowden is exiled for life; Assange, for his part, has already been imprisoned for ten years in the Embassy of Ecuador in London, then in a high-security prison in the same city. On what meagre official charge? Broken his bail period as part of a pseudo-investigation of a charge of morals, in any case abandoned for a long time. No one is fooled: Assange's only crime is to have been too good a publisher, to have done his job so well that Time Magazine awarded him the 2010 personality title. And that's why he would be liable to 175 years in prison? Whether it was Manning, Snowden or Assange, they all knew, when they decided to act, that they could receive a lost bullet. American public figures did not refrain from calling for the murder of Assange, a scenario that was studied and then abandoned by the CIA. Had they not had such strength of character, they could also have ended up like Aaron Swartz, Internet freedom activist, persecuted until suicide before his 27th birthday. Under threat, imprisoned, isolated, they remained in solidarity with and against everything – a heroic episode in a dramatic series of immense confusion, dotted with state lies, denigrations, insidious attacks and a judicial procedure of dizzying complexity. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] [[Same movements]] But it would be a trap tonight to explore the technical aspect of the file. Independent experts on arbitrary detention have already done so at the United Nations. After hard work, in a process in which Sweden and Britain were involved, they rendered their verdict: Assange is a political prisoner, subjected for more than a decade to psychological torture that would drive anyone crazy. The British government, in the face of this disturbing verdict, has found no answer but to denounce the work of an amateur! It is, however, a well-founded opinion, issued after several years of work, which is thoroughly researched and supported by national and international law. Nils Melzer, United Nations Special Rapporteur on torture, said: "Mr Assange must now be immediately released, rehabilitated and compensated for the abuses and arbitrariness to which he was exposed. » The law has spoken, but nothing will move without the balance of political power. Assange is supported by press representatives from around the world, who have awarded him dozens of awards for WikiLeaks' action. From Amnesty International to Reporters Without Borders, the Freedom of the Press Foundation, the American Union for Civil Liberties and the Committee for the Protection of Journalists, they all took sides. They are not mistaken: the attack on Assange, begun by the Obama administration, reinforced under Trump, maintained under Biden, is an attack against all international investigative journalism. And what about the methods used by this administration that tramples on individual freedoms until it records Assange's conversations with its lawyers and recovers all the Google data from WikiLeaks members – an administration so arrogant that it claims to judge an Australian journalist for actions he has done from Sweden or France? I, who have so admired, for having benefited from it, the welcoming talents of American society, I whose scientific career owes so much to the vibrant and open campuses of Atlanta, Berkeley or Princeton, remain stunned by such a misguided American values. As for the historical values of the French nation, now is the time to honour them. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] "Do you have anything to say? Yes, this evening we have something to say, thanks to the Freedom and Territories Group and to this motion for a resolution presented by our colleagues Jennifer De Temmerman, Jean Lassalle, François Ruffin and others, all very involved. This evening, ladies and gentlemen, it is time, through your statements and votes, to carry the voice of France, which will only be respected if it speaks loudly, this is the time to affirm your commitment to freedom and to the universal values that underpin our democracy, this is the time to cry out both our indignation at the arbitrary force that crushes Julian Assange and our will to protect him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u110	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u111	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u112	Trade takes precedence over law! Is that the message we're sending from the gallery? How is it that it is not the minister responsible for foreign affairs who speaks?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u113	Shut up!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u114	Let me remind you first of the facts. Mr Julian Assange, an Australian national, took refuge for seven years in the Embassy of Ecuador in London, until April 2019, when he was handed over to the British authorities. The US then launched an extradition procedure in May 2019, the review of which by the UK authorities began in February 2020. The British court ruled at first instance on 4 January 2021 against the request for extradition made by the United States, taking into account the risks it would pose to Mr. Assange's mental health. This decision was appealed by the British Prosecution Authority on behalf of the United States. In a decision of 10 December 2021, the British High Court of Justice found that the guarantees given by the United States authorities with regard to conditions of detention were sufficient to allow Mr. Assange's extradition to the United States. On 24 January 2022, the British High Court of Justice allowed Mr. Assange to appeal this decision to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom. As you can see, this legal situation primarily concerns the judicial authorities of the United Kingdom. We believe that the United Kingdom is a rule of law and we trust its justice. However, the motion for a resolution before you foresees the possibility of Mr Assange's application for political asylum in France. First of all, let me remind you of the legal framework for such an application: under the Code of Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the right of asylum, it is exclusively for the French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons, under the judicial supervision of the National Court of the Right to Asylum, to rule on eligibility for international protection and to recognize the status of refugee to a person who invokes the fear of persecution. According to the law, OFPRA is competent to hear an application for asylum only in so far as it has previously been registered by the competent administrative authority: it therefore deals only with applications filed on French soil and cannot be lodged from abroad. In order to apply for asylum in France, a foreign national who is outside our territory must apply to the French consular authorities for a visa which is ultimately issued by the Ministry of the Interior. In 2015, Mr.Assange had expressed his intention to seek asylum in France through the press; However, to date, the Government has not been aware of any such formal application or visa application, since it resides abroad, for the purpose of seeking asylum. As you can see, this question is not new. When asked about their decision in the event that Mr Assange actually applied for political asylum, the French authorities had then considered that there was no reason to respond favourably to that request, taking into account factors relating to the factual situation as well as to the legal situation of the person concerned: however, it does not appear that these elements have evolved since then. However, Mr Assange's de jure and de facto situation does not in any way call into question our continuing commitment to freedom of expression and the protection of whistleblowers. On the one hand, French law enshrines freedom of expression as one of the pillars of democracy. It is not absolute: the body of law that governs it since the law of 29 July 1881 has gradually been expanded by the addition of rules concerning respect for the person, the protection of minors and the punishment of insult, defamation or infringement of privacy. In accordance with our liberal tradition and the requirements of the 1881 Act, abuses of freedom of expression can only be punished by the judicial judge, the guardian of freedoms, without intervention by the executive. On the other hand, with the Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016, France was one of the first ten Member States of the European Union to have adopted a text protecting whistleblowers – this is the result of the legal status of the whistleblower you mentioned, surrounded by protective conditions for the various stakeholders. The motion for a resolution also mentions the European dimension of our action on this point: France has thus played a leading role in bringing to a successful conclusion the negotiations on the directive adopted on 7 October 2019 on the protection of persons who report violations of European Union law. We have defended a balanced approach, allowing us to preserve a single instrument with a broad scope, capable of protecting as widely as possible whistleblowers from the risk of reprisals while guaranteeing a legal system proportionate to the different levels of gravity. The Directive provides for the possibility of an external alert, either directly or after an internal alert has failed, as well as protection, subject to certain reservations, in the event of disclosure to the public. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, Sylvain Waserman – whom I thank – tabled on 21 July 2021 a bill aimed at transposing this directive and which, in fact, goes further than the European provisions. It addresses several of the limitations of the Sapin 2 law, in particular by increasing the accessibility of alerting devices by removing the obligation to issue an in-house alert before making them known to interlocutors outside the organisation concerned. It also extends the protection of whistleblowers to those who facilitate their work and who may be non-profit legal persons. As the Government initiated the accelerated procedure on 25 October 2021, the text was adopted unanimously by the National Assembly on 17 November, following amendments: I am pleased that the deputies and senators who met in the Joint Joint Committee on 1 February last reached a compromise, so that the new framework for the protection of whistleblowers will enter into force in the coming months. On this subject, France is a good student: at this stage, no Member State of the European Union has complied with the two-year transposition deadline set for the Directive. As Mr Mbaye mentioned, we could continue our efforts to encourage our European partners to transpose it as well, improving the protection of whistleblowers in Europe. However, I would like to point out that the legal framework for this protection remains quite separate from that of political asylum: whistleblowers can certainly, if they meet the conditions, benefit from the protection of asylum seekers or from subsidiary protection, but these are, I repeat, two different subjects and two different statutes. Finally, the motion for a resolution refers to the work of the Council of Europe, where a number of instruments have been negotiated to establish reporting standards and to protect whistleblowers. The Civil Convention on Corruption and the Criminal Convention on Corruption, adopted in 1999, inter alia, encourage States parties, including France, to take measures to protect persons who disclose information in the public interest. In 2014, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers adopted a recommendation dealing specifically with the protection of whistleblowers. Is there a need, as you wish and as PACE recommends, for a general and legally binding instrument on whistleblowers? The Committee of Ministers clearly expressed its position in this regard on 29 April 2020: "The negotiation of a binding instrument, such as a convention, would represent a long process and the uncertain result given the complexity of the subject and the diversity of solutions adopted by Member States to protect whistleblowers. It considers it more appropriate at this stage to encourage States to fully implement existing recommendations, if necessary with the technical assistance of the relevant committees and bodies of the Council of Europe. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, you will understand...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u115	No, we don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u116	[[Bruno Questel applauds]] ...that the Government should be against the motion for a resolution. However, ladies and gentlemen, you will have seen that he remains fully aware of the importance of national and international protection of whistleblowers. France will continue to be exemplary in this regard, following a balanced approach that protects all parties concerned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u117	On the whole of the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and related groups and the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u118	At the request of the La République en marche group, the meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u119	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u120	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Alexis Corbière.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u121	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM group]] I allow myself to go up to the rostrum because maybe that's all that's left in the end. Be elegant, colleagues. The subject is serious: we can grant it a certain solemnity. A man was actually sentenced to death by being sentenced to confinement. I'm going to quote someone: "We're still going to recall what he's been able to reveal. He revealed in France that Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande had been spied on by the Americans, it's not nothing. It also revealed that Pierre Moscovici and François Baroin, two French economic ministers, had been the subject of an economic espionage operation led by the United States. The name of the speaker was Eric Dupond-Moretti, who was then a lawyer for Julian Assange.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u122	Excellent minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u123	He was speaking true, and you think he is an excellent minister today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u125	Before he was a minister, he was not bad, especially when he said so. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] [[A Member of Parliament from the LaREM Group shakes his arms]] If you consider it excellent, be faithful to his word. How should a man, whose offence is precisely to have allowed France to face those who want to question his independence, not benefit from the help of France? What does a great free and independent nation judge itself to be? The fact that, precisely, even if you judge the United States of America as a friendly country, we must tell them that the fate they have reserved for Julian Assange is intolerable. Our independence will be judged by our ability to say, on this very clear issue, that it is out of the question that this man, who is a whistleblower, a journalist, be put to the irons. [[Mr François Ruffin applauds]] You raise your hands by doing the puppeteer, colleague. But who's the puppet of who in this story? The file is clear! Deputy Minister, I would like to make a reprimand, if I may: you have never mentioned Julian Assange's case in this gallery. Never! You have made a legal scoping, but you have never pronounced yourself as a citizen, as a minister, as a political leader, on a matter that is clear – this is shown in particular by the report produced by all those who have worked there within the UN. Julian Assange is perfectly innocent, and you know that! Everybody knows! Mr. Dupond-Moretti knows that! And what do we do? We're not taking a stand? This is our honour as a nation! Those who spoke here without supporting Julian Assange showed a sign of servitude and debasement against the United States of America. It's not serious! Beyond the case of Julian Assange, it is a matter of sending a clear message to a power she was a friend: we do not accept the fate that is made to this man! [[MM. François Ruffin and Jean Lassalle applaud]] [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – François Ruffin also applauds]] This motion for a resolution speaks true, speaks justly. It's late: let's send a signal of light into the night that this man is going through. This may not make it possible to rip it off from the claws of those who locked it up, but the fact that a great nation like France, attached to freedom, sends this signal, what comfort for him and for all those who, like him, are whistleblowers! Colleagues, let us show courage. Let us be French, simply faithful to our history: let us vote on this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u126	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u127	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Is the majority going to speak, anyway?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u128	Tonight, no matter what happens, we'll have succeeded. Julian Assange will have received the support of those in France who prize truth, freedom and human rights. We are not naive, we also know that his situation would not have been resolved tonight: we have never claimed the opposite. We have heard your arguments, ladies and gentlemen, but this is a motion for a resolution, that is, above all, a symbolic gesture, which tells us what we are and what we are defending. Like so many other symbolic gestures in this House, he opposes a situation that you yourself consider unworthy. [["Very good! » and applause on the benches of the LT group]] Of course, I hear that OFPRA is the only one entitled to deal with the request that Julian Assange could file, but there are cases where the executive has been able to intervene to get French nationality to heroes of everyday life. She was also able to do so in more serious situations, for example for Lassana Bathily, who intervened during the hostage-taking of the Hyper Cacher. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] I could deploy all your arguments, ladies and gentlemen, and dismantle them one by one. But what matters tonight, in the end, is not that we ask Julian Assange to be granted asylum: it is that we provide our support to an exhausted and diminished man, morally and physically – to the point of not seeing it again for lack of daylight, his loved ones told us – a man who has never deserved such a fate but who has deserved, on the contrary, our respect and our gratitude. Beliefs require action. Please: tonight we can vote to simply declare our support for him. We will work together, then, on the best solutions, but at least we will have sent a clear and strong message. [["Congratulation! » and applause on the benches of the LT group. – François Ruffin also applauds]] Deputy Minister, we would have liked to hear your support for Julian Assange; We would have liked to hear you support the idea of a great convention, which was defended by those who spoke on the benches of the majority – I thank them for that. But we didn't hear that. So, in a spirit of responsibility, we make the decision to support Julian Assange to the end and to assure him that we are with him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u129	I put to the vote the single article in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u130	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 50 Number of votes cast 48 Absolute majority 25 For adoption 17 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u131	Shameful! Zero value!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u132	The next item is the proposed constitutional law on the recognition of the blank vote for the presidential election (No. 3896, 4039).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u133	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u134	The years of presidential and legislative elections, like this year 2022, are still important moments in the political life of a country. It is therefore gratifying that today we have the opportunity to discuss such a crucial and decisive issue as the democratic crisis and the means in our possession to respond to it. I am convinced that we are at the heart of our role as parliamentarians. Indeed, as we all know in this House, our representative democracies are undergoing serious turbulence. The steady increase in the rate of abstention is an alarming signal, which reveals the growing disaffection of citizens with regard to elected officials. It must question us and lead us to a collective reflection on the functioning of democracy in general and universal suffrage in particular. The constitutional bill before us was tabled by our colleague Jean Lassalle, whom I welcome. Its content stems from a strong belief that a better consideration of the white vote in the presidential election would be a first step towards reconciliation between the French and democracy. In electoral law, white voting has long been made invisible. As early as 1806, the Conseil d'État specified that the blank ballots should be removed from the votes cast and treated as invalid votes. This dual principle of excluding white votes from votes cast and their assimilation into invalid votes continued until a law of 21 February 2014. It was part of a historical tradition, that of a utilitarian conception of the right to vote. In this context, the sole purpose of voting is to make a nomination in the event of an election or a decision in the event of a referendum. With this in mind, taking into account the white vote is perceived as dangerous. A first break with this historical tradition appeared, as I indicated, with the law of 21 February 2014 aimed at recognizing the blank vote in elections, which was intended to distinguish it from the invalid vote. From now on, the blank ballots are counted separately and annexed to the minutes of the elections. This legislative development has led to a first degree of legal recognition of the white vote which is thus measured and whose visibility is thus increased. We now know, for example, that in the second round of the 2017 presidential election, more than 3 million voters chose a blank ballot, representing 6.4% of the voters and 8.5% of the voters. However, the progress allowed by the 2014 law is above all symbolic. The white vote is better recognized, but it does not affect the voting process. This proposed constitutional law therefore suggests that further action be taken. In breach of the strictly utilitarian conception of the right to vote, it is tantamount to asserting that universal suffrage can and must allow citizens to express their opinions, they were disputing. Article 1 is thus intended to include white votes in the votes cast in the presidential election. This is an important step forward. This question is indeed a sea serpent of our political life. In our assembly, it has been the subject of thirty-five bills introduced since 1993. It was also included in the program of seven of the eleven candidates in the 2017 presidential election. Last but not least, it enjoys a very strong support from the French: in 2017, 86% of them were in favour of the white vote being counted in the votes cast in the presidential election, even though this leads to the invalidation of the election in case no candidate succeeds in obtaining an absolute majority of the votes cast. In addition to responding to the wishes of the French, the development proposed in this draft constitutional law will help to combat abstention. In the first round of the presidential election, it accounted for 16.2 per cent of registered candidates in 2007, 20.5 per cent in 2012 and 22.2 per cent in 2017. In the second round, it was 16% of those registered in 2007, 19.7% in 2012 and 25.4% in 2017. These numbers must alert us. Recognizing that white voting has real political significance and giving it the power to change the course of the election is a first step towards reconciling citizens with the ballot box. In 2017, 78% of abstainers said they would have voted blank if this option had been officially recognized. The inclusion of white ballots in the votes cast naturally has consequences for the presidential voting system. Article 2 of the proposed constitutional law anticipates the situation in which no candidate would obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in the second round. It sets up a mechanism to avoid institutional blockages. The original provisions of the draft law provided that the Constitutional Council would invalidate the election if no candidate obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and a second ballot was held. By an amendment which I support, our colleague Jean Lassalle proposes to clarify that, in this second ballot, the candidate who obtained the largest number of votes in the second ballot was elected. The mechanism thus amended would strike a fair balance between, on the one hand, the democratic need to give those who wish to manifest their refusal to make a choice from the political offer an impact on the vote, and, on the other hand, the imperative of institutional stability by limiting the maximum number of ballots to two. [[MM. Alexis Corbière and Jean Lassalle applaud]] This is the meaning of this proposed constitutional law, circumscribed by its object but deeply inspired by its vision of our democracy and universal suffrage.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u135	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u136	The constitutional bill that we are considering today aims to include white votes in the determination of the votes cast in the presidential election. The text also proposes to allow the Constitutional Council to cancel a presidential election if none of the candidates obtains an absolute majority of the votes cast and thus to proceed to a new election. I would like to tell you that the Government will be unfavourable to this development for a number of reasons. First of all, the constitutional amendment that you are proposing represents a major legal change in respect of which the Constitutional Council wished to warn us. It also represents, above all, a risk to the solidity and stability of our institutional system. That is why it seems to us that we cannot subscribe to it. However, I would like to welcome today's opportunity to discuss the meaning of the white vote, this non-expression of a choice which, in most cases, reflects a form of dissatisfaction with the existing political offer, as well as the remoteness of many of our fellow citizens from the public sphere. This debate should allow us to ask ourselves more about how we, as political leaders, can again interest our fellow citizens in democratic debate, reenchant politics, so that everyone may want to express his or her preference, instead of withdrawing, either by abstaining or even by refusing to make a choice during the election. For that is what should be the heart of our debate. We need to hear the reasons why our fellow citizens express themselves through a white ballot and give us the collective means to bring the French back to politics, to rekindle the desire of the French to choose their elected representatives, because it is through this act of choice that the French can guide the future of the country, our regions, our departments and our communes. Refusing to choose, refusing to elect, is also exposing the community to not being governed. And the question would then arise, since, as you know, the law of 21 February 2014 to recognise the blank vote in elections already allows the blank ballots to be counted separately from the invalid ballots. The Organic Law of 25 April 2016 on the modernization of the rules applicable to the presidential election introduced this provision in the framework of the presidential election. But the debate on the white vote did not date back to the 2000s. On March 6, 1798, the 18 ventôse an VI, a law was passed authorizing the white vote, at a time when ballot voting was permanently integrated into French political life. Throughout the 19th century, under the monarchy of July and then under the Second Empire, we witnessed a lively debate about the recognition of the white vote until the Third Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u137	Under the Empire, we didn't vote much!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u138	I'll give you the point! It was at the very moment when direct universal suffrage and a liberal democracy based on the idea that suffrage should lead to the selection of political leaders were rooted that the white vote was abandoned. But the act of voting is also used to express an opinion. Of course, the white vote can tell us something: distrust, indifference, a form of discontent, perhaps. However, I believe that political opinions should be expressed above all by strengthening political pluralism, by allowing all currents of thought to find political and democratic expression, and thus by means of a choice expressed in the ballot box. Yesterday in this Chamber we had a rich debate on the introduction of a proportion of the general elections, on the search for a more legible and coherent method of election for regional and departmental elections, and on parity in municipal councils.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u139	That was a promise from the President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u140	It is by going in this direction that we can, I believe, revive the desire of the French to choose their deputies, their mayor, their regional and departmental councillors and, of course, their President of the Republic. What would happen once the white votes, taken into account in the votes cast, were validated? I will go back to the technical and legal disadvantages of such a measure, but on the substance, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether we would like to see that part of the population which, instead of giving political direction through its vote, will choose to vote blank and therefore not to choose? I think it would be a profound failure for us, as politicians. In reality, that is not what the citizens expect. What they expect are elected officials who are mobilizing to listen to them, to meet their needs, to provide answers to the major challenges of the future and to the problems of everyday life: the white vote will not meet these expectations. The consequences of the recognition of the white vote as the votes cast for the election of the President of the Republic would, moreover, be potentially serious, since taking white votes into account in the vote would, for example, undermine the legitimacy of the election of the President of the Republic and therefore of our entire democratic system. The President of the Republic shall be elected by an absolute majority of the votes cast. What you propose would therefore be tantamount to questioning this cardinal principle for this election. Moreover, the system you are proposing presents a considerable risk: that of the potential inability to elect a President of the Republic since, theoretically, in the absence of an absolute majority, we will have to repeat as many times as necessary the organisation of a new election. [[Bruno Questel applauds]] This situation would create significant instability at the top of the state, which is hardly acceptable to our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u141	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u142	The risk not only of electoral paralysis, but above all of paralysis in the country would be accompanied by an infringement of the legitimacy of the one who, at the end of this very long and repetitive democratic process, would ultimately be elected. It is doubtful whether a candidate who has required many ballots in order to be elected can have the sufficient legitimacy that the election confers in normal time. This fragility would be all the more problematic for an election as important as that of the President of the Republic in our institutional system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u143	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u144	We are therefore proposing a system in which the choice of a small blocking minority of voters could jeopardize the expression of the vast majority of voters. In addition to the analysis of the instability that this provision would introduce in the election of the President of the Republic, the lessons learned from past elections are taken into account. In 2017, 3,21499 million blanks were identified. If the provision now proposed had been in force, the President-elect's score in the second round would have been 60 per cent, instead of 66 per cent. While the blank ballots were not yet counted separately, in 2012 the blank and invalid ballots represented 2,154956 million votes. The president elected in 2012 would then have won only 49 per cent of the vote instead of 52 per cent. The Constitutional Council should have invalidated the vote despite the more than 18 million votes gathered in 2012 and the more than 16 million votes cast on the second candidate. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget the effect of this provision, which would have been introduced into the rules of the election of the President of the Republic. Requests would quickly emerge for the new arrangements for taking white voting into account to be extended to all other elections in our democratic system. The inclusion in an election of the list of white ballots as votes cast implies significant and questionable developments. First, taking into account the white vote increases mechanically the number of votes cast. As a result, the percentage of votes won for each list is decreasing, even though the number of votes won in absolute terms would remain constant – it is mathematical. The effect would therefore be contrary to the expected effect, since such a development would penalise modest political formations which would more easily reach the percentage thresholds set by the electoral code for the distribution of seats, access to a possible second round and even the merging of lists. The same applies to thresholds which allow access to the reimbursement of campaign expenses. Counting the blank vote in the votes cast without changing the electoral thresholds would undermine the constitutional requirement of fair participation of political parties and groups in political life and of guaranteeing the pluralistic expression of opinions, as enshrined in article 4 of the Constitution. On the other hand, this would present the more global risk of multiplying the second laps, while making it more difficult to obtain an absolute majority from the first lap. The impact of the white vote on the allocation of seats, whether or not it would be possible to allocate to the white vote seats that would remain vacant, should be assessed very carefully. Therefore, for proportional ballots, two hypotheses would be possible: either the recognition of the blank vote could have no effect on the distribution of seats, which would render it meaningless to take it into account, or the blank vote would be allocated to seats which would therefore remain vacant throughout the term of office: the absurdity would then be approached. In the case of majority voting, where the law imposes an absolute majority of votes cast in order to be elected in the first ballot, the integration of white votes would make it more difficult for the election to take place in the first ballot, as I mentioned earlier. In the specific case of referendums, since the blank ballots would be treated as votes cast, would the blank vote become a third option, in addition to the "yes" and "no" ballots? In this case, the rules for the adoption of provisions subject to referendum should also be very broadly amended in the law, so as to first envisage the adoption of the provision subject to referendum, provided that the yes prevails by an absolute majority. This would be tantamount to assimilating white votes to "no" votes, and this option could lead to Kafkaian manipulations. I will illustrate my point with an example. If the question asked is: "Are you in favour of the project of reducing the presidential term to five years? "Are you in favour of maintaining the septennium?" The White vote is considered to be a vote in favour of the quinquennium. The second hypothesis concerning referendums would be to amend the rule on the adoption of provisions subject to referendum, so that the adoption of the provision subject to referendum would be subject to the condition that the yes prevails by a relative majority. This option would then raise the question of the consequences to be derived from a relative majority of white votes in relation to the vote yes and the vote no. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, taking into account the white vote would require us to substantially change electoral law and the effects of such changes are considerable. The examination in this assembly of the text which was to become the law of 21 February 2014 to recognize the white vote had already made it possible to point out the insurmountable obstacles that would arise from the inclusion of the white ballots in the votes cast, whether they are elections by single-member majority vote or by proportional list vote, or referendums. However, and this was well noted during the debates in 2014, abstentions and blank votes cannot be put on the same plane, because by filing a ballot in the ballot box, even a white ballot, the citizen participates in the election. White voting must therefore be considered differently. This has led Parliament to ensure that white votes are counted and distinguished from invalid votes. The 2014 law went further by broadening the definition of white voting: whereas it was previously limited to the case of the envelope containing a blank white paper sheet, recognized as such at the time of the counting, i.e. free of any sign and annotation, the white voting is, from the said law, extended to the regulatory envelope found empty, which gives the elector the opportunity to decide his or her white voting in the secret of the insulator, even without having first thought to bring his or her blank white paper sheet. [[Bruno Questel applauds]] As explained in the information report aimed at identifying the jurisdiction of abstention, which I wish once again to welcome for the quality of its proposals and the analyses carried out: "White voting is a non-choice: it does not allow the nomination of any candidate, which is the function of the election. As a result, the blank vote should not be able to jeopardize the election of a candidate who obtained a majority vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u145	Expressed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u146	[[Mr François-Michel Lambert]] As you know, the Government is committed to halting abstention and bringing the French closer to political life. To this end, many measures have been implemented: each elector will receive a new electoral map with a QR code allowing him or her to access all the information needed to go to vote; I gathered this morning Beauvau Square all the platforms – Twitter, Snapchat, Tiktok, Google, etc. – to ask them to communicate with young people the addresses of polling stations or to inform them about how to register; I also recall the.fr maprocuration device; I would add that it is not too late to register on the lists of electors, since we have extended the deadlines for doing so. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] These provisions are such as to deal with the subject we are debating today: that of abstention. The subject is that political supply does not always correspond to demand and that people are disinterested in politics, perhaps also because they are tired of hearing, like in circuses, screaming at people talking or seeing how often elected officials and political figures are threatened. It also helps to keep our fellow citizens away from the vote. All these questions are closely linked and we must provide coherent and coordinated answers to them. In any case, that is what the Government is currently working on.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u147	In the general debate, Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u148	First of all, I would like to thank my colleague and friend Jean-Félix Acquaviva, who has kindly reported on the constitutional bill that I am the author of. I also thank the Libertés et territoires Group for giving me the chance to present this text, to defend the ideas and values that we share with a very large number of you and with many French people. Finally, I would like to thank all the groups who have been willing to play the game today so that all the texts in the niche of our group can be examined, even if they have had various fortunes. As we pointed out during the Committee's examination of this text, the representative democracy to which we are all so attached has been challenged in recent years. In fact, the long statement made by the Deputy Minister alone illustrates the extreme concern of the Government and the President of the Republic. I'll come back to it later. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] Abstention reaches unprecedented levels; the lack of confidence in elected officials and, even more so, in political parties illustrates the widening gap between the people and their representatives. The French have lost confidence in their elites, in elected officials and in political parties, I repeat – as well as in the press, but this is not the subject of our debates this evening. Abstention has increased massively since the 1980s, all elections combined. By abstaining, the people mean that they no longer have the voice to rebel democratically or the power to fundamentally change the course of their history. For example, Emmanuel Macron was elected in 2017 by only 43.6% of registered voters: 12 million French abstained and more than 3 million voted blank. This is the absolute record under the Fifth Republic. How can an elected president with the votes of a minority of registrants represent the French in all their diversity? Since the 2014 law, of which my colleagues in the IUD-I group were originally – I thank them – white votes are now counted separately. However, they still do not take into account the votes cast. Thus, they are only very insufficiently brought to the attention of the general public. In principle, however, the white vote is very different from abstaining. You have talked at length about abstention, Madam Deputy Minister, but I am talking about the white vote, which is the expression of an assertive thought. By voting blank, the citizens tell us: "I am taking part in the vote but none of the candidates," – you will understand that I am not talking about myself – "None of the projects meet my expectations." This means that, if they feel concerned about democratic life, they do not feel understood or heard. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The recognition of the white vote for the presidential election therefore has several objectives. First of all, it is a question of recognising a popular will expressed many times: the French citizens are in favour of it in their vast majority, as shown by all the surveys carried out on the subject. A poll conducted by the FIFG in 2017 revealed that 86% of the French are in favour of the recognition of the white vote as a vote for the presidential election. They're not talking about abstention, they're talking about a white vote! That is precisely the content of the constitutional bill that I am the author of and we are considering today. Moreover, recognizing the white vote is likely to lead to a reduction in abstention – we will see it very quickly. Voters who do not recognize themselves in the proposed offer, but wish to express their commitment to democracy, will again go to the polls. Finally, the decline in abstention would give the President of the Republic a solid electoral base and ensure true legitimacy. Although I do not know how much time I have left, I am obliged to respond to your argument, Madam Deputy Minister, because I would probably have no other opportunity to do so. You said that, throughout the 19th century, the recognition of the white vote had been the subject of intense debate. Except that in the 19th century, it will not have escaped you, the regime changed every 20 years, which, fortunately, is no longer the case today. France came out of the Revolution and learned Republic and democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u149	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u150	You also referred to the situation in which we would find ourselves if the white vote came first. However, who tells you, ma'am, what will happen in the next presidential election? Did you feel the climate of anger in our country? Have you seen how a candidate who uses terms that I never thought I would have heard in the current public language on national television sets – pushed into the buttocks by the media as a whole – has been able to raise 15% of voting intentions in three weeks? Don't you think there's something to worry about? You're right, but you're opposed to a technical answer. Your technical answer is very nice, but I'm talking about politics, ma'am!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u151	You don't have to scream!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u152	I know you're not deaf, but you're still very deaf when you answer what you just answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u153	You don't have to insult me!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u154	You have been a member of the Government for five years and you have not taken any account...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u155	Please don't insult me!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u156	I let you talk, let me go to the end of my remarks, because we will not have the opportunity to debate such a serious subject every day. Your concern is pierced in your eyes and in the eyes of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u157	It's a personal attack for the second time! Calm down!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u158	We still have the opportunity to talk quietly about this subject, but in a short time we will not have the opportunity to do so, especially if you camp on positions that are so rigid and so far removed from the demands of the sovereign people – you see that I can express myself calmly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u159	That's better!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u160	But the National Assembly is also the passion, madame...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u161	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u162	...and it's the murmuring...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u163	Without shouting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] ...of those who believe in peace, democracy, the freedom of our great country, this sovereign people who have become universalist across seas and mountains, and who are losing what they were.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u165	That's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u166	You had two minutes left, Mr. Lassalle. Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u167	The debate will end after I take the floor, but I want to thank the members of the Libertés et Territoires Group – they have been very grateful throughout this day and I would not like them to get used to it – for having engaged in a political discussion on such a beautiful and great subject, that of the recognition of the white vote, which the unsolicited France group had also fed by proposing a debate on the right to remove the elected representatives. As far as we are concerned, we include these reflections in a desire to convene a constituent assembly, so that these major subjects can be considered by the whole people who would appoint representatives to debate them. As you know, Madam Deputy Minister, the President of the Republic was elected under conditions which he himself had described with humour as a "hold-up": that is to say how upsetting the last election had been! He knows very well that the conditions of this political volcano met in 2017 are still relevant. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] What are we talking about? The fact that 70 per cent of voters did not go to the polls during the departmental and regional elections until recently. You said that if we put the proposed mechanism in this text, institutional stability would be called into question. I'm saying she's already. When a regional president is nominated by only 15% of registered voters, we can speak of instability. François Hollande, with his humour, said: "What is good in the institutions of the Fifth Republic is that even an unpopular government and president can continue to act. I believe that this sentence is deeply anti-Republican. When we are unpopular, we no longer have the people with ourselves, only one segment of the people elects you – 15% – there is no Republic anymore. In fact, I apply this principle to myself: I was elected in the 7th constituency of the Seine-Saint-Denis with 60% of the votes cast in the second round, but in reality it represented only 20% of the registered voters, which means that 80% of the electors in my constituency did not vote for the MP who represents them – this is the case for all of us. The fact that those who make up the national representation represent only 20 per cent of the registered voters in their constituency demonstrates the weakness of the political base and poses the problem of consent to authority. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Let us return to the essential question: that of the sovereignty of the "electoral corps" to take up this magnificent expression. A body must express itself in its entity, without ever being amputated. It makes no sense to vote individually: it is in the interest of the vote that everyone should speak. This is no longer the case. What should we do? We must give new rights: the consideration of the white vote would allow citizens who do not recognise themselves in the political offer – in the second round, or even in the first round – to be heard. They want to be heard to say precisely this: "I do not recognize myself in the political offer. By giving them new rights, we give them a new motivation to vote. Finally, you mentioned the consequences of such a device if it was applied in the second round. That's interesting! If the one who will have to concentrate all the powers of a president under the Fifth Republic does not even manage to secure 50% of the votes cast in the second round, it reveals a fundamental political problem! That is why, in this case, it would be preferable to resume the vote. There is therefore an indisputable interest in the fact that the millions of our fellow citizens who, in the second round, do not recognize themselves in either of the two candidates present, can be heard by means of their blank vote and possibly lead to a new election. We must tirelessly give rights that allow our fellow citizens to be heard. This is a fundamental issue. We will not last long in the current institutions if we do not embark on meaningful reform, and if we continue to focus on this issue. I am in favour of taking into account the white vote and the compulsory vote: both go hand in hand. Compulsory voting can only be introduced if citizens are allowed to speak at any time, even when the circumstances do not present candidates who satisfy them. These would be fundamental advances. Among your arguments against the bill of our colleagues, Madam Deputy Minister, you have raised the question of the referendum under the Fifth Republic. Your remarks were relevant, but they revealed above all the weapon that the plebiscite represents for the Fifth Republic: even at the moment, the formulation of the question contains the perversity that you have rightly denounced. Citizens are summoned to vote on a matter, but if they vote no, the situation is maintained as it stands, whereas they are not necessarily in favour of the yes. Let us take the referendum on the passage to the quinquennium: a citizen who is not in favour of the septennat or the quinquennium cannot be heard, since the question is binary. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and LT groups]] It would have been necessary to vote on this bill, which is truly exciting: it would upset our electoral system, but it would give back the word to the people. We must always give the word back to the people, without ever being afraid of them, nor consider that when they do not vote, we can continue to act. Let us ask ourselves to live up to this grave concern. If we don't, the authoritarian attempt could win – and then it will be something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u168	Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall be adjourned at midnight, I shall adjourn the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1149.u169	Next sitting, Tuesday, 8 February 2022, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action; Final reading of the bill to reform adoption; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law in favour of self-employment; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for a law to improve the protection of whistleblowers; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the proposal for an organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting. The meeting is adjourned.
