ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva and others on the statutory evolution of the Corsican community in order to combat the phenomenon of land and real estate speculation on the island (No 3928, 4034).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u2	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u3	I welcome the fact that the debate can take place on the very sensitive issue of land tenure in Corsica and I welcome the fact that the proposal for a law which we are discussing has met with almost all political groups very favourably. I also welcome the important substantive collective work that has already been undertaken. This text is particularly expected and hoped for because Corsica is plagued by a phenomenon of real estate and land speculation which endangers the possibility for its inhabitants, especially the youngest and the families with median incomes, to live there decently, to live there peacefully and to project themselves there long-term. I will mention just a few figures: the rate of secondary residences in Corsica, by almost 30%, is three times higher than the French average; Some villas, close to the coast, can be sold up to 30000 euros per square metre and are easily rented 10,000 or 20,000 euros per week, sometimes much more, in high season. When we know that the median annual income in Corsica, which is 18% below the national average, is close to 20,000 euros, we measure the indecency of these transactions, which aggravate the inequalities within the island society. Due to the imbalance between housing supply and demand caused by this situation and the upward price dynamics it maintains, the cost of land to be built, which has an impact on the cost of principal residences, experienced inflation three times higher than the French average. Thus, the right to housing is in fact largely challenged. The price of land is not likely to encourage the construction of social housing and in several areas, especially near the coast, where jobs are located, a large proportion of households cannot access property for financial reasons. The exponential dynamic at work is deadly and pushes the majority of the inhabitants who have chosen to have a life project all year round in Corsica. Finally, the rise in inheritance taxes, maintained by the speculative value of transactions, will lead to massive dispossession of the islanders, especially in the context of the unresolved land disorder in Corsica. Thousands of modest families, who regularize their estates in order to reconstitute title to property whose last known owner has very often died before 1900,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u5	... will have to sell their inherited assets, for lack of sufficient liquidity to pay their taxes, the amount of which will depend on a very much sublimated average transaction value. In doing so, they will nevertheless contribute to fuelling the speculative bubble.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u6	Yeah, he's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u7	This situation requires the swift adoption of the measures provided for in this bill, as well as the adaptation of taxation on estates so that it is not confiscatory and avoids the announced dispossession. The acute problem of the scarcity of land, born of the topographical and geographical characteristics of the island-mountain that is Corsica and the phenomenon that I have just described, accentuates the breakdown of equality. This is widely shared. It is not the prerogative of any clan or political majority. The President of the Republic himself acknowledged, in his speech in Bastia on 7 February 2018, that housing had become "an endemic problem on the island". The legal path in which this bill is taking place is a leading path. In the Constitution, Corsica is still regarded as a simple community with a special status within the meaning of article 72. This is an incoherent situation, given the geographical, historical, linguistic and cultural specificity of this territory, as well as the unique institutional organization it has enjoyed since 1982. The draft constitutional law that was to be discussed in 2018 brought Corsica into the Constitution. Its abandonment, in the circumstances that are known, does not facilitate the development of appropriate and specific solutions to the island's problems, particularly with regard to land. However, we cannot content ourselves with the tools of common law invoked by the President of the Republic, such as town planning documents or the simplification of procedures. They are not enough to fight the mechanisms at work and the occult forces that have an interest in speculating on the soil of this island of beauty still preserved in the Mediterranean – but for how long if we do not act quickly? The situation is far too serious for us to wait for a hypothetical next constitutional review. There's an emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u8	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u9	We must act here and now. The breakdown of equality is obvious. With this text, I propose that you respond, to the constant constitutional right, to the problem of land tenure, to Articles 1 to 3, and to that of the normative powers of the community of Corsica, to Article 4. Article 1, which has been rewritten in committee in order to strengthen its constitutionality and operationality, provides for the establishment of a specific right of preemption for five years on an experimental basis for the benefit of the Corsican community. This right would relate only to disposals for consideration exceeding a certain amount: a decree in the Council of State, taken after the advice of the Assembly of Corsica, would determine the threshold, expressed in price per square metre, from which the right of preemption could apply in the areas concerned, themselves chosen by deliberation of the same Assembly. This article is justified first of all by the fact that the community is drawing up a plan for the sustainable development and development of Corsica (PADDUC). Moreover, on the island, because of their small size, municipalities and intercommunalities do not have the financial means at all to make an urban preemption right effective if they hold it, because 80% of them cannot exercise it in the absence of an approved local urban planning plan (PLU). Real estate values are exponential while budgets remain very tight. On the other hand, the Corsican community is the only regional community to have the general competence clause. As such, it is an essential institutional player, partner in many areas of municipalities and public institutions for inter-municipal cooperation (EPCI), whose representatives have, moreover, fully endorsed this bill. There is no point in creating a right of preemption if the holder cannot afford to use it. Thus Article 2, also rewritten in committee, allows the Assembly of Corsica to create a tax on secondary residences based on the real venal value of the property considered. The proceeds of this tax would be his and several safeguards are provided to prevent it from indiscriminately hitting family assets or modest owners, as some fear. Residences with a market value below a certain threshold would also not be affected. In addition, the Assembly of Corsica may provide for exemptions on social criteria or for modulations at the municipal level on the basis of other criteria, in particular the municipal rates of secondary residence. On this tax proposal, the debate has progressed and is on the way to a satisfactory compromise. That is why, on the one hand, I will support the amendment by my colleagues Jean-Paul Mattéi and Bruno Millienne concerning territorial taxation on transactions, thus on flows and not on stocks, and, on the other hand, I will propose to extend the surtax on the housing tax applied to secondary residences, adapting it to all the municipalities of Corsica, and to create a territorial share of the development tax in Corsica on the model of what the Île-de-France region has established. It is important to consolidate these new tools in convergence and compromise, because nothing would be worse than introducing a right of preemption which would be similar, in the absence of specific funding, to an empty shell. Article 3 provides for the establishment, through PADDUC, of areas without activities related to the wide distribution and rental of airbnb-type tourist furniture. Spatial planning must first meet the needs of the resident population, whether they are housing or economic activities. I will present you with a central amendment which will allow us to go further by extending to the municipalities of Corsica the procedure for authorizing the change of use of premises intended for housing in order to combat the uncontrolled "airbnbsation" of dwellings. Finally, article 4 deals with the normative powers of the community of Corsica, to which it opens, on an experimental basis, a faculty of legislative adaptation, which was censored in 2002. Article L. 4422-16 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities (CGCT) already confers on the community of Corsica the capacity to propose, "apply", the amendment or adaptation of the regulations or laws which concern it. However, in practice, these provisions have always remained a dead letter. The observation I make does not give rise to controversy: it is shared by many jurists. I hope that this article will put an end to the absurd situation that, forty years after the first act of decentralisation, Corsica will still be left out of the definition of the rules which concern it in many cases where the adaptation of general laws is common sense, since the specificities of the island are really taken into account. I regret that this Article 4, which had been adopted by this Assembly and incorporated into Article 1e r bis of the draft law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS, has been deleted by the Joint Joint Committee on grounds of largely questionable constitutional chilliness. More generally, I can only regret that this project does not allow, at least with regard to Corsica and its own problems, to overcome the formal egalitarianism which is often the source of the greatest real inequalities concerning the island. Do we want the islanders to have a choice only between leaving, being dispossessed or becoming Indians parked on their reserves? Do we really want to send the signal that democracy and law are powerless and that the State has been deaf to the legitimate concerns of the islanders when they have been expressed democratically, by a very large majority and at regular intervals, for years? It would be neither fair nor very good augurs when we know the history of this country and the deep fleshly bond that the islanders have established with their land for centuries. For decades, all the strong popular protest reactions in Corsica, which have manifested themselves in difficult struggles, with their cohort of dramas, have had as a common thing the defense of the earth, the refusal of environmental aggressions and dispossession. Today, we must demonstrate that democratic convergence is taking place to give answers. The law must defend and protect against this galloping speculation. It must strengthen, root peace on the island and give a controlled horizon of sustainable development for the islanders who simply want to live in dignity. [[Bernard Pancher applauds]] While residentialisation and real estate speculation have reached an out-of-standard level in Corsica, which justifies this bill, the same heavy trends exist elsewhere, in the Alps, the Basque Country, Brittany and other territories. We stand in solidarity with elected officials, people and political and economic actors everywhere against dispossession, the unacceptable economic, social and societal divides that result from it. I would like to pay tribute to them and to the Members of Parliament, from every bench, who have been working with us for months on this bill, and I hope that it will serve as a basis for strong measures for other territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and Dem groups]] Hasard of the calendar, tomorrow, February 5, 2022, it will be the 297th anniversary of the birth of Pasquale Paoli, founder in 1755 of a modern republic founded on democracy and justice at the service of the Corsican people "leggitimamente maestru da sestsu", legitimately master of himself. The purpose of this bill is to defend this legacy in the face of a threat that I hope we will all finally win together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u10	The Minister for Territorial Cohesion and Relations with Local and Regional Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u11	With this bill, we are given the opportunity to debate a subject which, I know, is at the heart of Corsicans' concerns, elected as residents, that of housing. We share many of your observations, Mr rapporteur, starting with that of increasing the risk of social and territorial divides, the consequences of the phenomena of land and real estate speculation painfully felt by the inhabitants. The increase in land prices makes it more difficult to launch new housing operations. And when these transactions take place, selling prices are inaccessible to many households. This prevents them from finding suitable housing for rent or purchase and greatly excludes the most modest ones. Such difficulties are encountered in many areas of the national territory, in particular in tense areas or tourist areas. However, in Corsica, with an increase in the price of equivalent housing with mainland France, the cost of land increases twice as fast. This means that land has a major role to play in raising prices on the island. However, we must compensate for the fact that the price of land still accounts for only 12% of the cost of an operation in Corsica, compared with an average of 21% in our country: its increase is partly due to a catch-up phenomenon. In addition, rents and housing prices are in the national average or even slightly below. Of course, these are not reasons not to be concerned about these issues: the current dynamics are a real obstacle to the ownership of young households or of the most modest households, especially in the coastal areas, which provide employment, especially since the social stock is poorly developed – 10 per cent of social housing compared with 17 per cent at the national level. In order to remedy the situation, you propose to entrust to the Corsican community three new competences: a specific right of preemption, an additional tax on secondary residences and the establishment, within the PADDUC, of priority areas where the construction of secondary residences or for non-professional seasonal rental would be prohibited. You also want to grant the community a right to legislative experimentation. I have to tell you, Mr rapporteur, that if we see the same problems, we differ on the solutions to them. Believe in my will to act, but the urgency cannot justify setting aside the principles of constitutional rank, namely equality and the lack of guardianship of one community over another. First of all, you are aware that we were prepared to include in the Constitution the specificity of Corsican territory, which would have allowed us to adapt laws and regulations without having to justify it; Since the draft constitutional revision has not been successful, which I know you regret as we do, this adaptation must be motivated every time. The rate of secondary residence, for example, could legitimize differentiated solutions; However, there are departments in which it is similar or even higher than that of Corsica, which the constitutional judge would not fail to conclude that the situation does not justify the granting to the community of an additional fiscal power. Your proposal thus presents a risk of a breach of equality before the tax: we will return to it when we examine Article 2. Secondly, you know my commitment to the prohibition of community guardianship and, more generally, respect for each other's responsibilities. In this case, I remain convinced that the sharing of competences between the local bloc and the Corsican community is the best guarantee of a balanced development of the territory; It is important to note that you wish to assign to the second of the competences so far exercised by the former. The arrangements for allocating the specific right of preemption that you plan do not allow the priority exercise, however provided for in the text, of the preemption rights of the local block. On the other hand, you entrust a right of preemption to the community, which is not competent in terms of planning or planning: what levers would it have to achieve the objectives you set for it? Similarly, the effectiveness of Article 3 is not ensured. It is impossible for a planning document to be used to regulate seasonal rental when the use of a particular dwelling is likely to fluctuate over the course of the year, or even within the same month, for example in the case of a principal residence leased at certain periods as a tourist furnished – which does not increase the land pressure, you will agree. The phenomenon would be equally uncontrollable within the framework of the urban police. Having said that, once again, I agree with you that the singularity of Corsica must be recognised under constant constitutional law and in an appropriate form. Several serious avenues are being explored or could be explored. Thus, before considering entrusting the Corsican community with new skills, it is important to exploit all the potential and resources of its own status. We can work together on this; It is for this reason that I have agreed to change the composition of the chamber of the territories of Corsica in the context of the 3DS bill. In addition, the Corsican Land Office, a public institution of the community, was created in 2014 to combat real estate speculation and to build social housing. He may exercise a right of preemption by delegation of the municipalities, and credits from the exceptional investment plan for Corsica were provided to initiate his interventions. Unfortunately, recent evaluations, including those of the Regional Chamber of Accounts, show that it is not fully achieving its objectives: we should therefore review this useful tool, which already has financial and technical resources to solve the problem we are discussing. On the occasion of the urban planning foundations organized in Corsica, the Government undertook to provide the local block with the necessary engineering to equip it with urban planning documents. This planning allows us to activate, if necessary, the mechanisms which, on the continent, are used to control the prices of land: twenty-six Corsican communes are currently accompanied in this direction. In addition, thanks to Bruno Questel, Bill 3DS provides for a report to Parliament this summer on land speculation, its origins and possible solutions. At the same time, we launched a mission of the General Inspectorate of Finance (IGF), the General Inspectorate of Administration (IGA) and the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development (CGEDD) on the taxation of the rental market in Corsica, i.e. both tourist furnished and long-term rental, with the aim of encouraging the latter. Finally, the Organic Law of 19 April 2021 on the simplification of experiments is fully adapted to the needs of Corsica. As I had already done on the bench during the examination of this text, I undertake to accompany any request, under constant constitutional law, from this territory. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like us not to be mistaken about a debate. Land and real estate speculation is a real problem in Corsica, where access to affordable housing, including social housing, for the youngest and most modest households is becoming a major challenge. However, we must reason with pragmatism if we are to develop appropriate responses to the constitutional framework. I am ready to do so and reiterate to you my proposal to move forward together; However, for all the reasons I have just outlined, the Government is against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u12	Mr Paul-André Colombani spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u13	This bill attacks a malignant tumor that grows day by day and is metastasized throughout the island: that of uncontrolled real estate and land speculation. The evil is so profound that the latest information report on the subject, in July 2019, by the agency of sustainable planning, urban planning and energy of Corsica establishes that "access to the building and land to house, create an economic or agricultural activity, becomes almost impossible for an island family with average income". [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Corsica has more than 90,000 secondary residences, or 37.2% of the park compared to 9.6%, four times less, in Hexagon. Since 2020, I have been a municipal councillor of Zonza, which has 2600 inhabitants: the rate of secondary residences exceeds 70% and 1300 urban planning acts were issued between 2018 and 2019. Measure what these figures mean: 1300 urban planning acts in two years in a commune of 2600 souls! Be aware of what this represents and the dramatic consequences of such a situation in terms of access to property and even housing! We are not here in the world before, Madam Minister, but in the world now, yours. We must act urgently. The Government must break with its inaction. Let us be clear: we come to the end of the quinquennium and, as far as the legitimate demands of the Corsican people are concerned, nothing has been achieved. I am thinking of the unprovoked reform of the Constitution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u14	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u15	... to the 3DS bill, which will in no way advance Corsica on the path of autonomy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u16	There, too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u17	... to the question of political prisoners or resident status, which would be an adequate response to the problem of real estate speculation. In the absence, I repeat, of the constitutional reform promised by the President of the Republic and supposed to lead to the recognition of the specificity of Corsica, this text seeks to find constant solutions to this alarming situation, to offer us tools to combat speculation. I would like to recall some of the dizzying figures that his explanatory statement quotes: between 2006 and 2019, the cost of land increased in Corsica by 138% compared with 64% on the continent; The rate for housing is 68 per cent, compared with 36 per cent. Again, this frenzy has disastrous consequences for access to housing. Some of us object that this is also the case on the French Riviera or in the Paris region; Corsica, however, is a poor region – one in five Corsicans lives below the poverty line and the median annual income is 17% lower than that of metropolitan France. Moreover, in our island-mountain, with significant geographical constraints, it is difficult to escape inflation by staying away from its place of work; This is particularly true for young people, who will eventually have to give up settling in their homes because of this constant rise in prices. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The price of life is also that of fuel, about which we keep alerting the Government since the beginning of its mandate – to hit us, again, at its immobilism. Even though we ended in 2019 the tax credit on tourist furnished accommodation enjoyed by some speculators, the situation is still out of control. Everyone who knows and loves Corsica – this is the case of many of you – will have observed the urban sprawl which leaves the fear that concreteisation will irreparably disfigure the island of beauty. To this concern, those living in Corsica add the anguish of not being able to live or engage in economic or agricultural activity. In a word, we are witnessing the dispossession of property and land of the Corsican population. It is time to affirm this collectively: Corsicans have the right to live in a decent way on their land, and this is the issue of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u18	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u19	More than 4 million people in France are very poorly housed or even more housed at all, as the Fondation Abbé Pierre established two days ago. Housing in France is increasingly expensive – too expensive – to the point of forcing the popular classes to move further away from the city centres, and even from their peripheries, as well as to suffer from unsanitary and inadequate housing. For many, buying a real estate is a very expensive or totally inaccessible luxury. But for some, these goods have become a game, a pure speculative investment empty of meaning but heavy with consequences. As a result, while the number of homeless people has doubled since 2012, the Fondation Abbé Pierre notes that "the market for secondary residences and luxury real estate is doing great, reflecting the inequalities [...] between households". Residents of tourist areas suffer directly from these unequal dynamics. This is obviously the case in Corsica, whose insularity and incredible landscapes have not ended to attract massive visitors. This enthusiasm would not be a problem if it were not accompanied by speculative games such as, on the island, more than 40% of dwellings are secondary residences – still an average, this rate reaching a level otherwise higher in some cities. Of these secondary residences, 55 per cent belong to continentals and 8 per cent to foreigners. Between 2006 and 2019, the cost of housing increased twice as fast in Corsica as in Hexagon, while one in five people live below the poverty line. I know, dear colleague Colombani, how much Corsica is one of the poorest departments behind the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u20	It's not exactly comparable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u21	There is also poverty in the Paris region, which must be recalled. Rents in Corsica are increasing, and residents are finding it increasingly difficult to access housing. It seems to me that we can all agree on the absolutely unbearable nature of this observation. The mayor of the village of Zonza, whom I recently met, shows this: in his commune, 70% of the dwellings are secondary residences. The obvious problem in this case is not a shortage of housing but too much of secondary residences, which are inaccessible to people living on the spot. In other words – to use an old formula of the seventies, which still seems right to me – we have the right to live and work in the country, but we must also have the right to live there; That's what we're talking about. That is why our group will support the proposal of our colleagues in Corsica, whose findings and concerns we share and with which we recognise the need for concrete and immediate solutions. As my colleague Acquaviva has said, we are facing a clear breakdown of equality and an injustice that is all the more unbearable because it could cause all those who have chosen the democratic and peaceful way to resolve an issue that we know has been endemic for decades in Corsica. We have, however, reservations about the method and the use of Article 72 of the Constitution – Mr Acquaviva knows that. I have the impression that this text seeks to answer two different questions. The first, which I have just described, concerns the situation of housing and secondary residences. But it seems to me that we also share a question about the adaptation of our institutions to the particularities of Corsica and the aspirations expressed on many occasions by popular sovereignty. You know, dear colleague Acquaviva, that from this point of view we prefer to see the evolution – we have committed ourselves to it – of Article 74 of the Constitution, or to seek with you new constitutional ways to recognize the particularity of Corsica. It also seems to us that the question of regulatory adaptation could be of interest to all tourist areas and to other regions: if the question arises in Corsica in a dramatic way, as I have just mentioned, it also arises in other regions of France – as you said, dear colleague – in an equally urgent way. In any event, our observation remains the same: this approach for Corsica and its inhabitants is urgent and of public utility. Whether it is a question of implementing the right of preemption, of better taxing secondary residences, of considering a resident's status or of prohibiting constructions in certain areas, action must be taken quickly. You said, Madam Minister, that you had to act pragmatically and that you were ready to do so, but you have been governing for five years and I do not see that you have done so. Macron "does not consider that we have been able to go far enough," in his own words, in terms of social housing. It's a complicated phrase, which shows its embarrassment. From this point of view, however, we must act quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u22	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u23	That is why, despite my reservations, we will vote for the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u24	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u25	This bill aims to combat the phenomena of land and real estate speculation that Corsica has been facing for several years. We will support it because it raises major questions which require an answer and which deserve the proposed experiment to be launched. This proposal points to the difficulties encountered in housing in Corsica and the deep injustices generated by the present system. The question of heritage, walls and land raises the question of the possibility of housing, living and working in the country; It is essential. In the thirties, a great Corsican resistanceer, Jean Nicoli, murdered in 1943 by the Black Shirts, already evoked in his writings those whom he himself called the "spoliés of the earth"; He had made their fate one of his fights. As Éric Coquerel pointed out at the moment, there are similarities between Corsica and Île-de-France in terms of inequality of wealth and income, even if the two regions have nothing to do with each other. Income disparities – which some may have called social and territorial apartheid – are growing there. Contrary to what might be thought, such differences are inter alia related to the issue of heritage. All the mechanisms of defiance that have been in place in recent years have only increased income and wealth inequalities. It is therefore time to reorient them. The rapporteur said this: there are areas in Corsica where the average households cannot live, let alone have access to the property. This is true especially in several coastal areas – which, by definition, represent a large part of an island's territory. In view of this worrying finding, Article 1 of the draft law proposes to introduce, as part of an experiment, a right of pre-emption to reinforce the possibility for the Corsican community to intervene in the transfer of real estate whether it is a sale, an exchange or a donation. Article 2 will make it possible to finance in part these community interventions in the form of preemptions, by introducing a specific tax on secondary residences. Finally, Article 3 aims to strengthen the possibility given to PADDUC to create areas without large-scale distribution or rental of airbnb-type tourist furniture. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports this proposal, and I would like to take advantage of the Minister's presence to highlight two points. In our country, the right of preemption is backed by the presence of a public interest, which itself can only be justified by the construction of a school, equipment or road. But wealth gaps are widening and speculation is raging, both in tourist areas and in developing areas. In Île-de-France, forty railway stations are under development within the framework of the Grand Paris, financed by public money. Without doing anything, the value of nearby land increases by 10%, 12% or 15%. Can we let some earn so much money, realize such gains, while sleeping? I do not think so, and I believe that the fight against speculation, both in Corsica and in Île-de-France, is in the public interest. Thus, the right of preemption must be based on a definition of the public interest that integrates the fight against speculation. Without that, our country will have great difficulty in meeting the challenge of housing for all and price control. Finally, I would like to make a small reservation: we would have liked a proposal for a law to strengthen the possibility for Corsicans to live in their homes at reasonable prices to include a component linked to the development of social housing, which remains, in Corsica as in many places in France, far below what it should be.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u26	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u27	This proposal for a law aims, as its title indicates, to combat the phenomenon of land and real estate speculation in Corsica. It was composed of four articles prior to its consideration in the Law Commission on March 31, 2021. The first article establishes a specific right of preemption for Corsica; the second introduces a tax on dwellings, excluding principal residences; the third would allow the establishment of communal areas of territorial balance in the development and sustainable development project (PADD); the fourth grants Corsica a right of legislative experimentation. In the Committee on Laws, the La République en marche group voted in favour of this bill as a whole, not without recalling some legal reservations of an institutional or political nature that have already been mentioned by some of my predecessors in this rostrum. Thus, in Article 1, we adopted the proposed operative part after reworking its wording with the rapporteur. On Article 2, we abstained for the sole purpose of allowing the debate to take place in open session. In Article 3, we adopted the wording of the rapporteur, as amended from the original operative part. As for Article 4, the same provision was adopted at first reading in connection with the work on Bill 3DS, but it has not been retained by the Joint Joint Committee on constitutional matters which are not merely random. In substance, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of speculation in Corsica must be dealt with without taboo. Here as elsewhere, it should not be caricatured or treated only through symbols. The approach of our island colleagues is not new. Since 2017, they have been creating without fail the conditions for a peaceful and constructive parliamentary debate and demonstrating their willingness to move forward on this point. Like other regions, Corsica is experiencing a return to land and rural areas, a flight from urban tissues. This movement is mainly the result of the evolution of the world, which has been through the pandemic for the past two years. In Corsica, 40% of young people live in villages, far from everything. The journeys between home and work are difficult; the costs of urban real estate, affected by the speculative prism precisely denounced by many of you, prevent first-time followers from finding housing. This phenomenon must not be obscured. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups]] That is why, in addition to the reservations mentioned, the La République en marche group will vote in favour of this bill by sticking to the decisions of the Committee on Laws as adopted under Rule 88 of our Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u28	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u29	The draft law before us today has drawn the attention of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats because it addresses two major problems facing Corsica: land speculation and the autonomy it aspires to. Since our group has always defended regionalism, this proposal has aroused great interest among its members. We would like to explain why we will vote in favour of this text. Yes, land speculation exists in Corsica! It is even special for three reasons. The first is that Corsicans are poor. The median income, which amounts to EUR 20000, is 20% lower than in the country as a whole. Being poor, Corsicans are sometimes forced to sell their land. The second reason for land speculation in Corsica is that the island is beautiful, not to say very beautiful, which sharpens financial appetites. In addition to taking advantage of the beauty of the island themselves, investors know that they can make a lot of money by renting the residences they have built or by making a beautiful surplus value at resale. The third specificity of land speculation in Corsica is the inability of republican institutions to prevent it, when they are not complicit in it. Indeed, Corsica has the peculiarity that 80% of the island's territory is not subject to an LRP and that consequently the right of preemption, the legal tool in the hands of local authorities to combat land speculation, cannot be applied. It must be said that those elected who do not vote for PLU have a share of responsibility in this situation, since they do not want to preempt land and fight speculation. [[Bruno Millienne applauds]] The state itself has sometimes been complicit in land speculation. As I said, the richest fortunes in our country were already coming to Corsica to buy goods, build houses and earn a lot of money: we could have stayed there. Well, no! The state also gave them money to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u30	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u31	You mentioned earlier, Madam Minister, a problem of breach of equality before the tax but for a long time there has been a breach of equality before the tax aid since it is the only French region where outside investors have benefited from state aid to come and build secondary residences and to rent them, thus competing with the local economy! It was the famous para-hotel tax credit. Fortunately, this majority had the honour of abolishing this mechanism, because giving money to the richest in our country to come to earn money by making speculation is anything but moral. What is terrible is that since then, hotels in Corsica have been competed by secondary residences, with about ten rooms, a swimming pool and a staff hired black during the summer. These secondary residences are rented to the detriment of the legal economy, which pays taxes and social charges for the staff it recruits. This arrangement has therefore favoured not only land speculation, but also unfair competition to the detriment of the local economy and tourist establishments which were mostly owned by Corsicans. Let me have a special thought about this for César Filippi, a dear friend of Porto-Vecchio who is fighting against this drift, originally financed by the State. What is proposed by this text is to combat this speculation by giving the community of Corsica, the only local authority that will have the means, the ability to preempt it. How do you want the commune of Porto-Vecchio, that of Bonifacio, which has 2,000 inhabitants, that a small village with a few hundred inhabitants can preempt the property of several million euros that are sold on their territory every year? The only community that has the means to preempt is the community of Corsica, whose population – 380,000 inhabitants – is equivalent to that of a small Parisian arrondissement. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LT groups]] In addition, it will of course be necessary to equip the Corsican community with the financial means to preempt. That is the purpose of Article 2 that we will support. The National Assembly must allow Corsica to finally commit itself to autonomy. The Corsicans have voted three times in recent years for self-governing lists: this democratic choice must be understood. The National Assembly must be at the time of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u32	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u33	Corsican land comes under a historically derogatory status, symbolized by Miot decrees of 10 June 1801, providing for a flat-rate taxation of estates and the absence of sanction in case of non-declaration. Although a return to ordinary law was initiated in 1998, this situation has created a considerable legal and land disorder. At the same time, Corsica is experiencing a particularly strong tension in terms of access to housing, particularly in coastal areas, due to land speculation and the high proportion of secondary residences. These account for 28.8 per cent of the housing stock, three times the national average of 9.7 per cent, and even the majority of housing in cities such as Bonifacio or Porto-Vecchio. In addition, only 37% of these residences are owned by persons usually residing in Corsica. These secondary residences are very heavily mobilized as seasonal rentals rather than as summer resorts of their owners. They thus account for 75% of the island's tourism supply, with a high concentration near the coast, where they fuel a speculative market linked to their profitability and the low availability of land due to the cumulative effects of the "mountain" and "coastal" laws. While Corsica will emerge in 2027 from the tax system derogating from successions, the liquidation of future successions and their taxation will be based on the real value of the property and no longer on a favourable flat-rate basis. Our Corsican colleagues fear an important phenomenon of divestiture of these assets aimed at clearing the transfer rights with the transfer of Corsican family property to external investors, risking to amplify current developments. In order to anticipate this deadline and to curb the dynamics already at work, the Corsican politicians have been demanding for several years extended powers for the new community of Corsica which enable it to better control the evolution of land and to apply a form of local preference to property. These requests are part of the continuity of earlier requests on the status of Corsica and on the possibility of implementing territorial differentiation in certain areas. We welcome the work done by our rapporteur in committee to take account of the comments made by the various groups, which allowed us to adopt this text. We support the experiment proposed in Article 1 of a special urban preemption right, aimed at enabling the community of Corsica to promote the mix of housing and access to housing, for transfers from a certain threshold. In this regard, we regret that the proposal of our colleagues Peu and Pupponi to include in the law of 23 November 2018 on housing, planning and digital development, the Elan law, a special right of preemption to combat unhealthy housing and sleep merchants did not find the same echo or support from the majority. The experiment of a differentiation of Corsica in certain areas also holds our interest. This is reflected in what we ourselves proposed for the overseas communities, still recently as part of the review of Bill 3DS. We are more reserved on the provisions of Article 2 introducing taxation of secondary residences, not as regards its principle, but because it would have been interesting to think of this at the national level, for all the territories which have a very high proportion of secondary residences, resulting in a phenomenon of eviction of the other residents – I can testify to this as an elected Member of Parliament in Brittany. [[The rapporteur applauds]] If the balance found in committee is maintained, we will vote in favour of this bill by our colleagues in Corsica and the Libertés et Territoires Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u34	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u35	[[Bertrand Pancher and the rapporteur applaud]] This bill is not trivial to me: it is particularly dear to me and I obviously feel a great deal of benevolence towards it. I had the pleasure and honour of belonging to the same group for a year as my three Corsican friends, Jean-Félix Acquaviva, Paul-André Colombani and Michel Castellani. They made me discover their country, their territory, their local identity, their language, their culture, and especially their way of living the Republic. I thank them for that. The seminar that brought us together in the constituency of Jean-Félix Acquaviva was one of the strongest moments of my mandate. I'm telling my Corsican friends clearly, your fights are ours. They are legitimate, they are honest, and I know that the whole island is behind this bill. This directly reflects the need for differentiation, particularly expressed by Corsica, within the limits of what is permitted, as you have said, Madam Minister, by law and by the Constitution. This need for differentiation deserves proportionate developments. We analyze a text that addresses various issues related to this community. To this end, some factual elements should be recalled. With regard to the Corsican real estate market, the Carcassone report stressed that 30% of the island's GDP was derived from tourism. In concrete terms, 70% of secondary residences are owned by owners who do not have their principal residence in Corsica. Recall that the increase in the price of land and real estate in this territory is considerably higher than the national average: 138% compared to 68% in metropolitan France between 2006 and 2017. These figures are due to the fact that Corsican real estate is a captive and hyper-concentrated market, where some apparently do very good deals. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] On the other hand, I would like to point out that 20% of Corsicans live below the poverty line: this is unacceptable. Some people cannot grieve when others, in the same territory, live below the poverty line. On this subject, it is up to us to provide strong, innovative and challenging answers, while trying to find points of balance. On the other hand, Corsica's general competence clause has been the basis of singularly innovative mechanisms, as you pointed out, Madam Minister, and powerful in quantitative and qualitative terms, aimed at combating speculation and dispossession, curbing the impoverishment of the islanders and eliminating internal fractures. As regards the right of preemption, let us recall that Corsica already benefits from it in some places, but as the president of the executive council of Corsica, my friend Gilles Simeoni, stressed during the hearings, citing a Corsican proverb, "it is legitimate to ask even if the prospect of a positive response is unlikely. » In the details of the text, Article 1, on the creation of a right of preemption, raises the question of respect for two constitutional principles, as we shall see. With regard to section 2, creating an annual tax on the premises of secondary residences, there are also some constitutional constraints, as you pointed out, Madam Minister. First of all, it should be recalled that the situation in Corsica is found in other territories in our country where the rate of secondary residence is also high, such as the French Riviera, the Atlantic coast or the Paris region. I would then like to point out that, according to some constitutionalists, recognizing the power of the Corsican community to modulate its rate could be contrary to our fundamental laws and to the constitutional principle of equality before public office. But who doesn't try anything has nothing. In short, we must not lose sight of the specific territorial features of Corsica which deserve special consideration. Finally, I take this opportunity to praise the initiative and investment of the many Corsican entrepreneurs in my constituency in West Africa. They find themselves in Dakar at the Corsican friendly union around my friend Jean-Michel Sol or at the end of Guinea-Bissau, at Mr Grimaldi, owner of the restaurant Le Kalliste, pushed to successfully try the adventure away from their very dear island. To my friends Jean-Félix, Michel or Paul-André, I would like to say "A nostra casa he chjuca, u nostru cori he grown up": our house is small, but our heart is great. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Bruno Millienne also applauds]] The freedom to vote is left to the members of the Group to act together on this bill, but, as you will have understood personally, I am very much in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u36	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u37	Corsica faces a major difficulty: the lack of recognition by the Constitution of the French Republic of its singularity, its specificity, its history, its identity and all that it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u38	Good!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u39	[[The rapporteur as well as Messrs. Bertrand Pancher and Bruno Millienne applaud]] This bill attempts, with voluntarism and imagination, to circumvent this major fact, which explains that legislative changes can only be marginal. It therefore provides a partial, insufficient but necessary response within our legal framework, that of the absence of constitutional provisions. It should be stressed that Corsica is one of the only islands of the European Union not to benefit from the constitutional framework required to build its own identity, in this case within the French Republic. We can only regret this lack. [[The rapporteur and Mr Bertrand Pancher applaud]] We can only understand this bill from the moment we understand that if the trend in the construction of secondary residences continues at the level observed over the last two decades – while the poverty rate of Corsicans is far above the national average – if we allow Corsicans to become foreigners on their own land, we will not be able to say that we had not been warned; the situation in which we let the island gradually fall is able to create major frustrations among the Corsican people, who would no longer have the place they should have at home. The land, in an island society, for a Corsican, is not simply an economic good, it is a fundamental element of the identity of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u40	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u41	This is why the UDI and independent group fully supports this proposal for a law and the provisions it contains: the right of preemption, the supervisory mechanisms, the right to legislative experimentation which will allow the Corsican community to experiment with measures falling within the scope of legislative provisions in force or in the process of being drawn up when they present, for the exercise of its powers, difficulties of application linked to the specificities of the island. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Bruno Millienne also applauds]] This bill is the minimum that Parliament can do today. I hope, however, that after the presidential election, we will finally deal fundamentally, within the framework of the French Constitution, with the case of Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u42	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u43	The examination of this bill gives me the opportunity to try to explain the reasons that are ours, for there exists in this assembly as well as in the whole of the opinion a lack of understanding of Corsica, Corsicans and their claims, sometimes considered excessive or unfounded. First of all, I want to rule out a quiproquo: we know clearly that every piece of territory, every region, has its personality, its physical, economic and cultural characteristics, its problems, its objectives and its hopes. Each Member is anchored in a reality and carries a project. We have no claim in Corsica to exclusivity or extraterritoriality. Having said that, I would like to bring to your knowledge some structural elements so that you may know them a little better. Corsica was able, in the 18th century, to build its independence, to provide fourteen years for an active state, on the most modern constitutional bases of the time. Beyond this revealing episode, Corsica is the perfectly identifiable living environment of a historical people, with its language, its us, its proverbs, its cuisine, its festivals, its music, its qualities and its weaknesses. This people has always been at the heart of the Mediterranean exchanges and has constantly welcomed women and men who have come to blend into a common life and to maintain over the centuries a sense of perennial belonging – vivac enough to resist the attacks of history and reach us. That is what the people of Corsica are, and nothing else: a consciousness of being, a project of shared life, a set of social signs to which we adhere, beyond the intangible personal differences. This community has been through terrible trials. Corsica had 300,000 inhabitants at the beginning of the 20th century. Maldevelopment and wars have made him lose half of his children,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u44	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u45	...that was only 160,000 in 1962. The massive arrival of returnees from Algeria, the eruption of tourism, the general population growth have since shaken this community. The population has thus increased from 160,000 to the current 350,000 by the exclusive play of migratory movements. Population growth is the highest in all metropolitan areas. We will observe the negative paradox that there is at the same time a disastrous social situation and a record attractiveness. This is the result of the functioning of the residential economy, which certainly creates enviable situations, but has not caused economic development anywhere in the world, let alone in Corsica. The island today has 350,000 inhabitants, I repeat, of which 200000 were not there by the year 2000. In 20 years, 57% of the population has been renewed and the phenomenon is accelerating. We therefore understand the formidable problems posed by this situation not only in terms of housing, employment, training, infrastructure, health, but also in terms of the cohesion of a changing social body. A society is not an aggregate informing individuals nor the more or less peaceful coexistence of communities; Nor should it be the neighbourhood of wealthy promoters and a large number of precarious people. A society should feed on a common project, a willingness to share, a set of references, social signs that, beyond individual differences, bring individuals closer together. In the light of this data, we understand better the fight we wage for our language, which is increasingly marginalized, when it has been centuries during our exclusive means of communication. We understand our desire to gain regulatory and legislative adaptivity, to control as much as possible the evolution of things and to mitigate their avancies. And we understand the fundamentals that justify the bill we are debating today. Speculation, fuelled by the beauty of the sites and the influx of increasingly numerous predators, poses problems on which I will not return from access to housing, environmental ravages, but also from social cohesion. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, Dem and IDU-I groups]] Here is our will: to maintain an open and fraternal Corsica, welcoming, rich in its personality, which builds its destiny every day without giving up on itself. As I said earlier, each piece of land is specific and our commitment can be that of many other parts of France or Europe. To comfort this difficult fight is not to betray or weaken France. On the contrary, it is enriching it with the diversity of its territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u46	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u47	Corsica is this "separate land, which still defends itself a little from looking like all the others", as Paul Valéry so well said. Unfortunately, this land is now becoming less and less corse because more and more bought by affluent continentals. This is a real problem that needs to be addressed. This is the whole point of our colleague Acquaviva's bill to regulate the phenomenon of real estate and land speculation, which too often prevents the most modest islanders from settling in decently. One of the factors behind this speculative phenomenon is the massive purchase of secondary houses on the island, most often at gold prices. The latest figures from INSEE speak for themselves: in Corsica, 72000 dwellings are declared secondary, or 28.8% of the housing stock – three times the average found in provincial areas in mainland France. More importantly, 37% of secondary residences in Corsica belong to inhabitants of the island and 8% to foreign owners; In other words, 55% of secondary residences belong to continentals. If there is no question of challenging property rights, it must be recognized that these figures question, especially since the price of real estate is so high that it prevents too many islanders from housing themselves properly. The rise in prices is not an illusion – far from it – since in ten years the price of land has increased by 138%! Added to this is the rise in inheritance taxes, which, for lack of financial resources, leads many Corsicans to sell the homes of their parents and grandparents. Mechanically, the goods that are thus found in the real estate market contribute to uncontrollable supply and demand. Last April, I listened carefully to the question to the Government of our colleague Jean-Jacques Ferrara, in which he was concerned about a particular form of treatment that could be granted to Corsica. I have heard his concerns about the introduction of a right of preemption by the community of Corsica and the creation of an annual tax on secondary residences. I also heard the invocation of the principle of equality in law enforcement and this question: why treat Corsica differently from the Arcachon basin or the island of Re? It seems to me that, as the text stands at present, we can be reassured. As regards the right of pre-emption for the benefit of the Corsican community, this is a five-year experiment which will only concern disposals for consideration in excess of a certain amount. It will therefore be strictly supervised and may be revised if necessary. The creation of a tax on secondary residences by the Assembly of Corsica will also be regulated, in order not to penalise Corsican residents with low incomes: it is proposed that the tax be based on the real market value of the property in question. Thus, residences with a market value below a certain threshold would not be affected. Moreover, and this is one of the interesting points of the text, this device will be sectorized. In other words, it will not be applied uniformly throughout the territory, allowing local specificities to be taken into account. These are all proposals of common sense that are justified by the particular situation of Corsica, which reaches a threshold of rupture that cannot be ignored. For while Corsica is Corsica, it is also France and, as such, it is our collective responsibility to provide it with a specific and appropriate response. [[The rapporteur applauds]] It would be a shame to avoid it, since the proposed provisions could serve as a model for other territories. Indeed, if a satisfactory outcome is found in Corsica between locals and holidaymakers, why not apply it elsewhere? Between the "resident status" conceived to combat real estate speculation or the idea of reserving the purchase of land or real estate to those who have actually lived on the island for at least five years and the impasse in which Corsicans are now in, a balance can be found. That is what this bill is doing, and that is why I will support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u48	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u49	I thank all the speakers and groups who have spoken. We see the convergence that we call for, and even near-unanimity – the Government's opinion is an exception, and we hear it: it shows that there is still some way to go. Let me thank you from the bottom of my heart, as the progress that is being made is important democratically and politically. It is still a long way – we agree – but it is useful that Corsica understands the work of Parliament through the prism of the debates that we have been conducting since March. I will start by turning to our colleagues on the left, Stéphane Peu and Éric Coquerel: you share our observation, and you remind us that speculation is obviously not the prerogative of Corsica – the argument is relayed in other places. We are ready to work on the enlargement to other territories of the experiment we are advocating for Corsica. We have already explored this subject, particularly at a recent conference with Xavier Roseren – he is absent today, but supports our bill – and with other MPs, on taxing; It has given rise to heated debate in the Committee on Finance. Obviously, the heavy trends we regret in Corsica are at work in other well-identified places such as Brittany and the Basque Country – as I said in my presentation. However, these trends are not expressed everywhere with the same intensity. In this we have a divergence with the minister: land and real estate speculations in Corsica are inconsequential with those in the rest of the country, and create a break in equality. This is due to many factors specific to the island. For example, the cost of land increased by 138 per cent, four times faster than the French average. Travel times are very long between the employment areas and the places of residence, without public transport service. The topography of the island leads to a rarity of natural land. One in five Corsicans live below the poverty line, and the median annual income of the inhabitants is 18% lower than the French average. I also want to twist the neck to an idea too widespread: it would be Corsicans who sell. If some of them do, it is because they are forced to pay the tax – this raises the question of taxation on indirect succession, after decades of non-titling. Above all – I say it clearly, and that is largely why we were elected – the system is taken over by a minority who own the land. This minority has islanders, but not only. Speculation in Corsica is not new, and has even created a jackpot: secondary residences are bought by occupants who, for the most part, are not islanders – it is a reality, there is no racism or xenophobia to say – and who sell them among themselves. As François Pupponi explained, there has been a phenomenon in Corsica that has never existed in other territories: the cumulation of a misappropriated tax credit, a favourable taxation of seasonal rentals, an exemption from capital gains on the disposal of real estate, and a promotion through a very active intermediation system. In 15 years a logic of "open bar", to use the terms used by Charles de Courson in the Finance Committee, has been established, when, on my proposal, we restricted the tax credit in favour of furnished tourism. This logic, which leads to off-standard profitability, does not exist anywhere else. For all these reasons, Corsica suffers a breach of equality patent. The average families are back to the wall, and the tensions are legion. The example of Zonza, evoked by Paul-André Colombani, illustrates this perfectly: its budget equivalent to the sale of a single villa, how could this municipality assert its right of urban preemption? That's impossible. The municipalities call for solidarity with the community of Corsica, which has the clause of general competence, in order to fight together, in consultation – and not by opposing each other – against a phenomenon of dispossession. Several speakers stressed this: the logic that is at work is "get out of my way! Michel Castellani showed the historical, demographic, cultural and link to the land, and I also salute the interventions of M'jid El Guerrab and Philippe Gomès on this subject. The Corsicans feel it violently from a physical, intellectual and cultural point of view. This is no longer acceptable: urgent action is needed, and all groups have understood it well. Thank you for your support and I hope that our debate will make it possible to move forward on a peak path – because we know very well that it will have to lead to constitutional reform. Let us move forward to provide concrete answers from now on, let us experiment, evaluate and frame initiatives – our proposals are not all azimuts, they set limits – in order to develop regulation and to bring solutions to an urgent problem. I repeat, all the protests that have aroused tensions in Corsica have been part of the attack on the land, from the events in Aleria in 1975 to the environmental aggressions of the red muds, to the resistance against nuclear tests, which have unfortunately been moved to Mururoa. It is now land and real estate speculation that is raging; They are certainly not new in Corsica, but they have taken on immense proportions for the last fifteen years. We have to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u50	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u51	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u52	I would like to express my support for Mr Acquaviva and his colleagues in Corsica. The text they propose against land speculation in Corsica is of great interest, particularly in its Article 1e r which establishes a right of preemption for the benefit of the community. You spoke of solidarity: this is a good thing, but what about the municipalities that could not set up a land reserve in view of the intervention of the Land Office of Corsica? Moreover, will the latter have the means to deal with certain private speculators? I particularly support this initiative as a member of a very active coastal territory, the country of Retz, part of the country of the Lorient and several islands – Belle-Île-en-Mer in particular. I sincerely thank you, Minister, for recognizing the specificity of small islands not connected to the continent in the 3DS Act. You have regretted that Corsica is not there, and I hope that the Breton islands will give ideas to this great island, which I thank the Corsicans for having preserved so well. If our problems are not equivalent to those of Corsica, they come closer to them: the price of land has risen, the difficulties of young people to emancipate themselves, the families to settle and the employees to house themselves. First of all, strictly coastal, the phenomenon is now spreading in the land and affecting an increasing number of inhabitants. The crisis has accentuated dynamics that are expected to last, with Brittany expected to gain 400,000 inhabitants in the next ten years. The Britons must be able to work on site and stay on site. You can't imagine the happiness I have to see my 35-year-old daughter buy her house, doing what she can! Access to property is essential and contributes to the good of all. It does not happen a week without being told of difficulties in this area; This is widely echoed in the press. Some companies can no longer house their employees! Municipalities, like Carnac...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u53	We must conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u54	Leave me 30 seconds!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u55	Your time has expired.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u56	I would like to recall the progress we have made under the ELAN law on hollow teeth. We have managed to find land available: 300 hollow teeth have been identified in the country of Retz; We must now find solutions with the state to make them constructible...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u57	Thank you, Congressman. You had two minutes, and it was a matter of speaking on section 1, not of retracing the history of the legislature. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u58	In terms of housing, whether we are talking about the shortage of housing in urban and peri-urban areas, such as in Île-de-France, or the overabundance of secondary residences held for speculative purposes, to be rented on platforms such as Airbnb, everything goes back to the way in which we deal with the market. The free and unregulated market is not the solution. That is why we will vote in favour of Article 1. François Pupponi said that Corsica had a particularity: it was true when looking at the price of secondary residences and the size of the communes. However, the question of the right of preemption arises very widely in France for other municipalities. Article 1 has the merit of addressing it from the point of view of real estate speculation. I hope that the experiment that we are about to adopt will lead us to reflect on enlargement to other territories, including coastal areas. If the problem we are dealing with is particularly acute in Corsica, for the reasons that have been recalled, it unfortunately threatens all the littorals of France, struck by the installation of secondary residences. I hope that we will find ways to extend the system and facilitate the right of preemption, which is essential in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u59	The rapporteur's amendment No 15 is drafting. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u60	Beyond this editorial amendment, I would like to recall the arguments I made at the time of the presentation; My speech will essentially be worth the amendments that will follow. I repeat: we share your observation about land and real estate speculation, which is a real issue in Corsica, but also in many other territories, including Brittany – this has just been recalled. To deal with these crucial issues, we must certainly find new tools – although we are hampered by the Constitution – but there is also a right of urban preemption over local authorities. The latter can recover land and conduct construction projects. I am aware of the difficulties reported by the rapporteur, in particular the too small size of intercommunalities. Nevertheless, this right of preemption exists. Communities can also rely on public land facilities. In this case, the Corsican Land Office can buy land and help communities to bear sometimes high acquisition costs and mount projects. You also recognize the relevance of these tools, Mr. Acquaviva, since it is on their basis that you have built your bill. However, entrusting the Corsican community with a specific right of preemption could only make the land action on the island more complex. There would indeed be risks of interference between several rights of preemption, in particular between that of the local block and that which you wish to grant to the community of Corsica. More broadly, I would like to stress the role that the Corsican Land Office could and should play. This public institution of the community of Corsica was created to manage the dysfunctions we speak of, and it has legal and financial tools for this purpose. The municipalities can delegate to him the right of urban pre-emption – I agree that they still need to do so – and he has the special capital tax credits of €3 million a year, as well as the credits from the exceptional investment plan. However, of the EUR 22 million planned for the period 2015-2020, not all were consumed, far from it, because they could not launch acquisitions. I am very much in favour of us continuing to work together on these essential issues. That is why Bill 3DS provides for a report to be submitted to Parliament with a view to objecting to the state of the art and further exploring complementary solutions. We wanted to identify your proposal precisely as one of the possible solutions, Mr rapporteur. Therefore, although your amendment is drafting, I express an opinion which is unfavourable to its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u61	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u62	Minister, your argument is a little contradictory. You're right, the operational tool to buy is the Corsican Land Office. But while he has the financial means to do so, he does not have the legal power to do so, namely the right of preemption. So he can buy only willingly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u63	We can delegate it to him!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u64	When private persons decide to sell among themselves, the Corsican Land Office cannot intervene. That is why the amendment proposes that the Corsican Assembly, therefore the Corsican Land Office, be given the right of preemption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u65	The municipalities can delegate the right of preemption to the Land Office of Corsica!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u66	No, because 80% of the municipalities do not have PLUs. Moreover, I would point out that when they decide to draw up one, the environmental associations, well known in Corsica, attack it. Since there is no possibility of preemption, there is speculation. We're going in circles. The only way to solve the problem is to give the Land Office of Corsica, through the community of Corsica, the power of preemption. Thus, it will have both financial and legal power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u68	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u69	[[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] I would point out that more than 80% of Corsican municipalities do not have an urban planning document; They are therefore deprived of the right of preemption. Even if the mechanisms referred to by the Minister are efficient when they are effective against them, in this case they are not. That is why we adopted this drafting amendment by the rapporteur in the Committee on Laws and Rule 1. The La République en Marche group will do the same in a public session.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u70	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u71	I regret that we do not say things in a coherent way with regard to the Land Office of Corsica, which is a tool of the community of Corsica,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u72	I said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u73	... chaired by the President of the Executive Council of Corsica. In other words, the right of preemption which we are asking for through an experiment is intended to facilitate the work of the Corsican Land Office, which, as Mr Pupponi said, does not currently have that right. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and Dem groups – Bruno Questel also applauds]] As for the means, we are talking about 3 million euros a year, compared to a real estate market of several billion euros. It is said that municipalities can delegate. However, since 80% of them do not have LRPs, they do not have an urban right of preemption. If mayors prefer not to have a PLU and it is the National Town Planning Regulation (NCR) that applies, it is because they are subject to pressure. This dimension of the gold rush is never mentioned. That is why the associations of mayors of Corsica-du-Sud and Haute-Corse are in favour of a strong community with a matrix assembly of Corsican democracy in which all groups assume to help them preempt. They want solidarity to deal with a phenomenon that eludes them and occult interests. It is not just a technical problem, an ELAN law, a "mountain" law, a "coastal" law or a PADDUC – it is not true that the PADDUC prevents construction. In the face of this inescapable reality, our proposal is contextual: it is an experiment that we will all take stock of together. We give ourselves the hand to fight against a phenomenon that the Corsicans live, the elected as well as those who are not. The principle of equality does not look from Paris to Corsica, it evaluates itself by going on the ground and examining all the dimensions that make things not progress. Since there is no LRP, there is no right of urban preemption and no possibility of delegation to the Corsican Land Office. So we have to do something else. We propose to give the community of Corsica the opportunity to conduct an experiment which can be carried out after the right of preemption of the land development and rural establishment company (SAFER) or after that of the municipality. When the mayor of a commune that does not have a PLU tells me that he is being pressured on a convent and that he asks me for a project of general interest, we do not wait for years, we intervene and give a moral response to the Corsican society, expected by the Corsicans who voted for it for 70% of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u74	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u75	What the rapporteur has just explained is quite clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u76	It seems to me!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u77	Let us not ignore the fact that there is a great deal of pressure and occult interest behind real estate and land speculation. In the face of this, public authorities must assert themselves and have tools. I will add an element which I think is interesting and which alone justifies experimentation, namely the extension of the grounds of preemption to the fight against speculation. At present, this does not exist anywhere in national law. Preemption, under certain conditions specified in the law, can be motivated solely by the fight against speculation. I am confident that this provision will prove useful and can be extended throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u78	Amendment No 16 of the rapporteur is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u79	I call Mr Bruno Millienne to support Amendment No. 32.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u80	Quite clear, it aims to provide legal precision to the definition of the disposal transaction for consideration, in order to make the bill more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u81	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u82	The committee has given an unfavorable opinion, but I am in favour of it in my personal capacity. This clarification on the definition of the disposal transaction for consideration is very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u83	I call Mr Pupponi to support Amendment No. 33.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u84	The previous amendment and this amendment are from Mr Mattei, who has worked very hard on this text and whom I welcome. He cannot be present today, so he asked us to defend them. In order to avoid any risk of unconstitutionality, the aim is to limit the right of preemption by excluding it from intra-family transfers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u85	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u86	I also welcome the work of Mr Mattei, who cannot be present this morning. The exceptions provided for in this amendment are based on those already applicable to the right of preemption exercised by FASER. In my view, this is a matter of managing wealth within families and not of the speculation against which the bill intends to fight. Again, the committee has rejected the amendment, but I am in favour of it personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u87	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u88	I am against this amendment since the proposed wording is based on the regime of the right of preemption of SAFE and aims to extend it to the right of urban preemption. However, SAFEs cannot preempt family farms, because they must be able to pass on within the family circle in order to ensure the continuity and sustainability of the activity. The amendment is intended to exempt from the right of pre-emption acquisitions made in urban areas within the family circle, without any reason equivalent to that laid down for agricultural holdings. This difference in the regime introduced specifically for the continuity of agricultural areas does not appear justified in urban areas. It would create a two-speed property right and could even block development operations that would require the pre-emption of an entire area occupied by owners in different situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u89	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u90	I would remind you that we have opposed this amendment in committee, even if the diagnoses made are to be taken into account. The Minister has just recalled the legal and legislative contingencies that drive our rejection; The adoption of the amendment would affect part of the powers of the Land Office of Corsica and create confusion in the powers of the SAFE. The Group of the European People's Party is therefore opposed to this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u91	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u92	The proposal for a law aims to give the Corsican community a right of preemption in order to combat land speculation; Since then, we have been told that it is not entirely normal to accept this derogation from ordinary law. The point of this amendment is precisely to limit the scope of the right of preemption which the text gives to the community of Corsica; In other words, it is in the direction of those who tell us that we may open Pandora's box. For our part, we wish to reserve this right of preemption to the fight against land speculation. A sale between members of the same family obviously does not enter the register of land speculation – most of the time it is parents who sell property to their children or transmit it to them free of charge. In this case, it is normal that the community should not be able to preempt. I am therefore surprised that you are opposed to restricting the scope of the right of preemption. Adopting Article 1er without having approved this amendment would be tantamount to introducing a very broad right of preemption. Your reasoning is a little contradictory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u93	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u94	It is part of the consideration given by our colleague Claudia Rouaux to the remarks made in committee. The purpose is to specify the conditions under which the right of preemption may be exercised or delegated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u95	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 17.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u96	It is an amendment of precision. The opinion is in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u97	Amendment No 18 of the rapporteur is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u98	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u99	It is an amendment of consistency, which aims to delete the end of paragraph 3 because the question of competition of pre-emption rights is dealt with in paragraph 4. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u100	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u101	It is intended to ease the way in which the obligation to allocate the property is assessed. As intended, this obligation could prove too burdensome for the Corsican community, with many projects taking a long time to complete. It is more relevant to refer to an obligation to enter into the assignment operation within five years. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u102	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u103	It is unfavorable, because the important thing is that the operation is completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u104	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u105	This editorial amendment has been rejected by the committee, but I am of course in favour of it in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u106	The rapporteur's amendment No 22 is drafting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u107	I have before me a number of amendments to the additional article after Article 2. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 29, which will be the subject of a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u108	This amendment aims to adapt the proposed tax tools to the particular situation in Corsica. Article 1407b of the General Tax Code, which is well known, already allows certain municipalities to vote for an increase in the housing tax for furnished dwellings not allocated to the principal residence. The list of agglomerations concerned is set out in the decree of 10 May 2013. In Corsica, however, only Bastia and Ajaccio are targeted, while speculation and "airbnbsation" concern other regions, notably the Balagne and the extreme South. So there is a lag – which, in fact, is also observed elsewhere in France. As a result, we propose to extend the possibility of increasing the housing tax to up to 90% to all the municipalities of Corsica. I am in favour of Mr Colombani's sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u109	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor in support of sub-amendment No 54.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u110	It aims to increase the minimum rate of increase from 5 per cent to 20 per cent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u111	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u112	Disfavorable to the sub-amendment and the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u113	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u114	On all the amendments to the Additional Rule after Article 2, the Group of the Republic on the move has a more than reserved opinion and will not participate in the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u115	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u116	In addition to the specific features of Corsica, which the rapporteur has recalled and which regularly come back in our debates, it is important to review the zoning of the tense areas – in this case, in Corsica, the urban areas of Ajaccio and Bastia – applying the housing tax on vacant dwellings, which obliges us to take other measures. Indeed, this zoning begins to date as market tensions have changed a lot. This request was made here on Monday evening during the debate on mal-housing. There are now many obsolete zonings in our housing policy, because they no longer reflect the realities of the market. If we want to achieve results, we must look at the situation in a comprehensive way, with the amendments proposed by our colleagues, but also by using tools that are in the hands of the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u117	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u118	You're right, Mrs. Pinel. That is why we launched the mission against the attrition of the main residences in the tourist areas in Corsica and throughout the national territory. I would like to have at your disposal the letter bearing its creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u119	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor to support Amendment No 10, which is the subject of three sub-amendments by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u120	This amendment tabled at the initiative of Jean-Paul Mattei, unfortunately prevented, aims to extend the scope of the flat-rate tax on the sale of immovable property for consideration so that it covers all types of financial and real estate arrangements concerning property situated in Corsica. Again, the aim is to combat financial speculation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u121	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendments 53, 48 and 49, which can be presented in a consolidated format, and to give his opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u122	I give a favourable opinion on this proposal designed with the help of Jean-Paul Mattei. It is a matter of opening up a reflection on the taxation of real estate capital gains – speculation being a subject of interest of course to territories other than Corsica. In this case, it is important to include this in the bill because it helps to combat speculation by striking where it hurts, knowing that the areas where the flat-rate tax will apply will be defined by a decree in the Council of State. I propose by sub-amendment No 53 to raise the rate of the tax to 10%, since these are real estate gains, and by sub-amendment No 48 to allocate the product to the community of Corsica. Finally, sub-amendment No 49 aims to allow exemption from the tax on the basis of social criteria, following the model of the provision adopted in Article 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u123	What is the Government's opinion on the amendment and sub-amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u124	The amendment creates a difference in treatment between taxpayers, which exposes them to an obvious risk of constitutional censorship. Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u125	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u126	Indeed, this risk exists. But there is also unequal treatment, as I explained earlier. I then failed to specify that the famous para-hotel tax credit, which allowed an investor to have 30% of a secondary residence financed by the State, gave rise to an exemption from capital gains tax if the property was leased – thus competing with the real economy – for five years. In other words, not only does public money pay for the construction of a secondary residence of an investor, but when the investor resells it, he realizes a huge surplus value without being taxed! This is discrimination. The objective of the proposed flat-rate tax is to restore justice. There is no reason why a person who has received a tax credit, i.e. public funds, to build his or her secondary residence should not pay tax on resale.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u128	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u129	What are we talking about? François Pupponi just recalled: upon their arrival on the island, some people benefited from the para-hotel tax credit. It was your taxes, my taxes, that gave them a tax reduction of 30%; It therefore seems to me normal – and above all moral – that a few years later the resale of the property is taxed. One cannot perceive a gain at the entrance and another at the exit. I would certainly have preferred that the amendment be drafted differently, by capping the tax at 30% to allow mayors the freedom to adjust it, but I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u130	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u131	It aims to open up the reflection on the allocation to the community of Corsica of the territorial share of the development tax, according to what is already practiced in favour of the Île-de-France region, and which is justified by its economic potential. The Corsican community has already inherited departmental shares, capped at 2.5%, but it seems to us important to add a territorial share whose rate could not exceed 1% and could vary according to the municipalities. It is a necessary tool that will allow the community to collect high revenues. Of course, this measure is accompanied by exemptions from social housing, in particular. This will ensure consistency in the perception of taxation on speculative activity and its effective allocation to regulate the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u132	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u133	I would point out that the development tax was conceived, as its name suggests, as an instrument of the policy of development by the local authorities. It is therefore not a source of financing for pre-emption operations. The communal, intercommunal and regional shares are used to finance public facilities made necessary by urbanization; As for the departmental share, it finances the policy of protecting sensitive natural areas and the operating expenditure of the architectural, urban and environmental councils (CAUE). The introduction of this new share would reduce the appropriations for development, infrastructure and re-naturalisation. The Corsican community already benefits from the departmental share of the tax, the rate of which can be adjusted up to 2.5%, in accordance with the urban planning code. The creation of an additional share for its sole benefit is therefore not justified vis-à-vis the other territorial authorities. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u134	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u135	Let me add one more element to the Assembly's reflection on this issue. Corsica has had a specific status since the Baylet Ordinance, which was endorsed by the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic, the NOTRE Act, and has been in force since 1 December 2018. I would remind you that it led to the merger of the two Corsican departments with the region, from which came the territorial community, which now exercises its full competence. I believe, Madam Minister, that we will have to understand all the consequences of the NOTRE Act and, above all, the Baylet Order, as we assessed them about three years ago with Raphaël Schellenberger as part of the assessment mission for the said Act. The Ordinance on the competences of the territorial community of Corsica contains several holes in the racket. Some imperfections have already been corrected with your support during the consideration of Bill 3DS, but much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u136	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor in support of Amendments Nos 44 and 46, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u137	I'll take them off.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u138	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u139	It is an amendment of precision. Article 3 aims in particular to exclude from the scope of the PDDUC the shopping centres referred to in Article L. 752-3 of the Commercial Code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u140	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u141	Unfavorable opinion. Your amendment gives me an opportunity to make it clear that Article 3 presents significant difficulties. The mere fact that the PADDUC defines areas in which the municipalities will no longer be able, by means of LRPs or building permits, to authorize the construction of shopping centres or tourist accommodation projects is precisely a violation of the principle of non-tutel from one community to another. The PADDUC prevents municipalities from using their competence. It cannot regulate this point without exposing itself to a high risk of censorship by the judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u142	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u143	I come back to the argument that this article would undermine the principle of the free administration of communities. Following the above reasoning, it must be concluded that PADDUC itself would generally undermine this principle. However, Article 3 is explicit: "with respect for the free administration of the communes". Remember that the PADDUC can define strategic spaces – there are already some in the agricultural field. And I assure you, in case the majority would have to deal with this question if it were renewed after the elections: we will create other strategic spaces, with which – since it is a question of local voluntarism, and we have them! PLUs will have to be compatible. It is clear that UCDPs can define sectors based on land use and destination, pursuant to section L. 4424-9 of the CTGC. The compatibility between the PADDUC and the PLU is even provided for since the ELAN law, which complements the "coastal" law and the "mountain" law, specifying in particular the delimitation of the areas where both apply according to the distance from the shore. It is in this spirit that article 3 has been drafted. The debate will continue, but I repeat: there is no infringement of the principle of the free administration of local authorities. The argument of unconstitutionality is often sold wrongly and through, which I regret.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u144	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u145	During the initial examination of the text in committee and then of the amendments tabled under Rule 88, the La République en marche group voted in favour of this amendment and Article 3, which respond to a genuine need for good administration of the community of Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u146	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u147	I am surprised by the minister's argument. As the rapporteur has said, the urban planning code is based on the principle that all documents above the LRP force it; This is the case for Territorial Coherence Schemes (SCOTs) and Regional Planning, Sustainable Development and Territorial Equality Schemes (SRADDETs), for example. This is also the case with the Ile-de-France region's (SDRIF) master plan, which freezes territories according to a delimitation to which the commune cannot derogate in its PLU. Again, all these urban planning documents constitute a pyramid, each floor being subject to the upper floor. The PADDUC makes a lot of ink sink in Corsica because it defines the famous ESA – strategic agricultural spaces. In some communes, it has frozen agricultural areas in which they have no right to build. With Article 3, it is true that the constraint is reinforced, but the rule already exists! Higher-level urban planning documents are required by the PLU, and therefore by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u148	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 30 on the additional article after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u149	This is a central amendment to the bill. It concerns Corsica, but I am sure it should be of interest to other territories – it is also the subject of this text. The aim is to amend the first paragraph of Article L. 631-7 of the Construction and Housing Code in order to extend the system of prior authorisation, provided for municipalities with more than 200000 inhabitants, to the whole of Corsica. This would regulate the phenomenon of "airbnbsation", seasonal rental being one of the factors of the off-standard profitability of secondary residences. As has already been pointed out by several colleagues, including François Pupponi, the cumulation of diverted taxation, the high profitability of seasonal rentals and, at the time of the divestitures, the exemption from tax on real estate surplus-value creates the conditions of a jackpot, a casino logic. This increase in speculative value does not correspond to the creativity, the work, the entrepreneurial abilities of the owners, and much less to the service of the goods, but simply to the exacerbation of the demand and the financialization of the land investments, which create a fracture. Indeed, land is a fixed and rare asset in an island situation. In order to curb this phenomenon, it is essential to extend the system of prior authorisation to the municipalities of Corsica.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u150	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u151	Unfavorable. The amendment is satisfied. This measure should not be imposed, which can be cumbersome and costly for small municipalities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u152	Mr François Pupponi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u153	We will decide on the final position of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats at the end of the debate, but I would like to inform you of my personal position on Article 4. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Yes, minister, you are right: the article voted under the 3DS Act is certainly unconstitutional. But should we not take this political and legal risk to send a message to Corsicans, who have, on three occasions, voted in favour of autonomy? Three times in a row, they elected an assembly with an autonomous majority, affirming their commitment to this project. More than fifty years ago, elected officials and Corsican personalities had called for autonomy, seeing it as the only solution to get the island out of the rut where it was located. In the last fifty years, however, things have only worsened in the economic, social and other fields. The idea of the article is to accept the risk of conducting an experiment allowing Corsica to take the path of autonomy. The Corsicans must be shown that the National Assembly is in favour of this, that it is the path to the success and development of Corsica. To affirm it today would have a strong symbolic significance. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] I hope that no group will refer the matter to the Constitutional Council, and that the Council will not have to vote on it. Of course, we risk a priority issue of constitutionality (QPC), but under the previous legislature we had accepted this risk for our colleague Camille de Rocca Serra's bill on inheritance rights. This bill was certainly unconstitutional, but the Assembly voted almost unanimously to allow Corsica to benefit from a derogation. The National Assembly would be honored to say to the Corsicans who voted: we have heard your message and we are opening the way for the island to autonomy, to enable it to overcome the difficulties it has been suffering for too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u154	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u155	I would like to explain why the Group of the European People's Party will abstain from this article – which will not prevent us from voting in favour of the text. Our choice is based on the reasons mentioned by François Pupponi, but also on the explanatory statement of the bill. It clearly states that beyond the fight against real estate speculation, it is a matter of sending a sign on the institutional evolution of Corsica in terms of autonomy and of taking into account the results of the votes in Corsica which, after election, give up to 70% of the votes for autonomy. In the midst of the presidential campaign, we must consider the position of each of the candidates on the future of Corsica. For our part, we prefer to include Corsica in article 74 of the Constitution rather than to go through article 72, which would fail to upset the foundations of the country's overall territorial organization. Emmanuel Macron had committed himself to it, but finally did nothing about it – remaining as usual at the promise stage. The rapporteur, Acquaviva, knows that we believe that the situation must be moved forward through Article 74, or even through a reflection on the Constitution, which would achieve the same objectives, but not through Article 72. This will not prevent us from voting on the bill, but it will lead us to abstain on section 4. I note, moreover, that, no doubt because of the risk of unconstitutionality, the text proposes, in article L. 4422-16 of the General Code of Local and Regional Authorities, to move from the wording "the Corsican Assembly may present proposals" to "it may ask the Government to allow the legislator to carry out experiments". There is therefore no obligation on the part of the Government to respond to requests from Corsica, which is quite moderate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u156	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u157	For the past 40 years, as part of the process of decentralization conducted in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000, Corsica has been given a specific status; I remember that in public law courses at university, the island was often referred to as an institutional testing laboratory. The mechanism proposed in article 4, if submitted to the Constitutional Council, might indeed be found to be contrary to the Constitution. We adopted it at first reading of the 3DS law to send a message to the Corsican people who, three times, expressed themselves clearly about the orientations they wanted to give their territory – even if those interested in Corsica know that things are a little more complicated than what a vote might suggest. Beyond its probably unconstitutional nature, the proposed mechanism has the merit of setting up an important debate on the right to experiment. This bill corrects a problem that we had identified in the course of the examination of the 3DS law, during the work in committee as well as in the exchanges that we had with the associations of elected representatives: the executive will now have to report annually on its response to the requests for legislative or regulatory specificities made by the Corsican Assembly. The La République en marche group will abstain from this article only because of the unconstitutionality of the system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u158	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u159	[[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] This text is indeed working on a ridge path, at the limit of the Constitution. Mr Pupponi said that if the text was not attacked by the Constitutional Council, a path could be opened. Why not give some hope to the Corsican people who have voted three times for autonomy? The decision is in your hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u160	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u161	We are at the heart of the constitutional debate. The article had been censored when it was incorporated into the law on the status of the territorial community of Corsica of 22 January 2002, but criticisms must be relativized into unconstitutionality. Corsica is one of the territories with special status, which allows it to benefit from a particular procedure: after a reasoned deliberation, the Corsican Assembly can formulate a request for experimentation, the Government and the Parliament deciding whether or not to give substance to the latter. As Parliament takes its decision by vote, there is no transfer of legislative power for the benefit of the community of Corsica. It would be the autonomy – which we call for – that would allow it, but constitutional reform is needed. After evaluation of the report, the experiment will be extended, or generalized and possibly differentiated, according to the decision of Parliament and the Government taken by the community. Rest assured: the legislative power remains in the hands of Parliament. The only innovation introduced by this system is to oblige Parliament and the Government to respect a rule of politeness by responding to Corsica's requests. Indeed, the famous right to ask – dumandà he legge, it is said in Corsica, as one colleague reminded us, "to ask for it is the law" – has been widely used: since 2002, we have submitted seventy requests. There were majorities on the right and on the left, then the current quinquennium, but not a request was answered. This shows the lack of interest in the wishes of local and regional authorities, especially when we know the debates in Corsica. However, things have happened in Corsica in political matters!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u162	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u163	The procedure proposed in the text simply codifies the obligation to reply. We do not agree at all with the argument of the risk of unconstitutionality. On the one hand, who would be going to pose a QPC? This would mean that QPCs can be imposed on the taxes which the community of Corsica has collected since 1991 and 2002, for example on fuels or transport, since these taxes, proportional to the activity, are totally specific to the regions of common law. One could go as far as a QPC on the current status of Corsica, drawn up between 1991 and 2002. The risk of QPC is overestimated. On the other hand, the decision of the Constitutional Council is preempted, while its arbitration, since the 2003 Organic Act on local authority experimentation, could be favourable, especially given the context. The answer is a matter of political will. We are for Corsica's autonomy and therefore for constitutional reform, but despite the triple vote of the Corsican community, at 70% of the vote, in favour of this project, we are not sure whether constitutional reform will happen. It is a democratic and therefore political problem. Not only is such a reform subject to the three-fifth rule, but there is no guarantee that it will come into being under the next mandate. It is therefore necessary to move on to the realities on the ground, thanks to legislative and regulatory adaptation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u164	I propose that you keep the floor, Mr rapporteur, in support of the precise amendments Nos 24 and 25, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u165	The Corsican Assembly holds two regular sessions each year, so in paragraph 6, the words "February" should be inserted after the word "ordinary". At the end of paragraph 11, the words "adopted or amended" should be replaced by the words "adopted legislation leading to its amendment or perpetration". The committee is against these two precise amendments, but I am obviously in favour of them personally.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u166	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u167	I'm ready to give all the signs I need. I hear some Members pretend that nothing is ever done; However, I would like to point out that I myself defended the Organic Law of 19 April 2021 on the simplification of local experiments, which responds to the request for simplification expressed in Article 4. With respect to the follow-up to the proposals made by the communities, the 3DS Act has moved us forward on this issue, even if you do not think it is enough. It obliges the Government to respond to the requests of local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u168	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No. 47.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u169	He is largely satisfied with the adoption of the previous amendments: I withdraw it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u170	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 26, which is of a drafting nature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u171	It is indeed a question of replacing the words "the phenomenon of" with the word "the".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u172	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u173	[[Rires on the benches of the LT group]] I do not want to upset Mr Acquaviva's copyright.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u174	[[Smile]] As a rule, Mr. Acquaviva is not upset.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u175	In the explanations of vote on the whole bill, Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u176	[[Smile]] There's "Millenni" who wants to talk!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u177	I'll be very brief. I wanted to speak at the end of the debate as a pinzutu, Mr Acquaviva. For twenty years you have made me discover your island, which is probably the most beautiful island of French heritage. (Claims on various benches.) I say it without any problem: everyone has his preferences, mine goes to Corsica! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LT group]] I just wanted to tell you that beyond the technical problems, even the constitutional problems that we have discussed, as a pinzutu, I am very proud to vote on this law, and perhaps to offer the people of Corsica an easier way towards a brighter future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u178	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u179	I would simply like to thank all the colleagues who heard the problem raised this morning by our rapporteur, Jean-Félix Acquaviva, about land speculation and housing in Corsica, and the urgency of action. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, Dem and IDU-I groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] In 2017, when we put forward our candidatures, many people – including from home – were skeptical about our place in Parliament. Today, I have heard many benevolent words about Corsica: I thank you all for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u180	Mr Bruno Questel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u181	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem, LT and IDU-I groups]] As he had done in the law commission, the La République en marche group would vote in favour of the bill. It is essential for new relations to be established between an island which is part of the Republic and the rest of the national territory, but also for the general interest of Corsica, which deserves its specificities to be fully taken into account in the drafting of the law, whether ordinary or constitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u182	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u183	It is not just a question of specificities: it is a matter of eminently political problems. The questions asked by Corsica are not solely related to its geographical position as a Mediterranean island. There are also historical and political issues at stake, as well as taking into account, as I said earlier, the popular sovereignty that has been expressed through several elections. I do not know what will happen to the law that we will probably vote unanimously today, since we are at the end of the quinquennium and there is too little time left to complete the parliamentary shuttle. I note, however, that for the past five years there has been a great deal of room to change the question of Corsica's autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u184	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u185	That has not been done. In terms of social housing, Mr Macron believes that the current majority has not done much – which is true – and that action will have to be taken. In the same way, I note that some colleagues in the majority feel that it will be necessary to look after Corsica in the future. For my part, I hope that in the future there will be a majority in this House which will not only make it possible to make real progress on the issue of housing in a global way – the problem is that people have more and more difficulty in housing, we have just talked about it for Corsica – but also to advance Corsica's status of autonomy. We have expressed our preferences, and that is what I may wish for the coming quinquennium. This is what we will defend with Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u186	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u187	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u188	This is not the first time we have discussed this subject, and I wanted to pay tribute to Jean-Félix Acquaviva for his stubbornness: his bill will finally be passed, and that is an excellent thing. Of course, there are specific features of Corsica – no one denies it. However, the question of land speculation arises more widely, with different acuities, throughout the national territory. If the experiment that we are going to vote to fight against land speculation in Corsica could be generalized to the whole of the national territory tomorrow, it would be a further step.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u189	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u190	[[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I and LT groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] To affirm the identity of the territories of the Republic, to enable them to manage their specificities, to strengthen themselves with their own identity and culture is not to weaken the Republic, it is to strengthen it. For these reasons, on this particular issue, we will support the bill that has been considered. We will vote for it, and I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Corsican parliamentarians who have been able to say, with great talent, the love of their country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u191	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u192	[[Exclaims and smiles on the benches of the LT group]] When our three Corsican friends from the Libertés et territoires group arrived in this assembly, as Paul-André Colombani said, there was a lot of prejudice and a lot of hard work against them. There was a lot of mistrust, but we learned to work together. Today we see that the whole House is convinced. Our Corsican friends managed to conquer our hearts. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and LT groups]] I am very proud to have participated in this exchange, which allows us to open a door for Corsica but also, as I said to my colleague Maina Sage, for all the territorial specificities. Littorals such as mountains and mountains such as large urban centres cannot be treated. The road ahead seems to me to be a positive one for the Republic and for our territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u193	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u194	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] It would have been a shame if the Socialist and related group did not pronounce itself. I want to thank you: the exchanges were exciting and I learned a lot. Corsica and Brittany have one thing in common: they face almost the same difficulties. I believe a lot in this experiment for Corsica, which can be a life-size test so that tomorrow, in Brittany, but also on the whole French coast or in the mountains, we can make things change. Thank you for this beautiful morning dedicated to Corsica. It is true that you have a beautiful island, but we also have one: Belle - Île - en - Mer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u195	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u196	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u197	From the bottom of my heart, thank you. Beyond the vote on this bill, which will still have a long way to go, we all know that democracy, politics, is a fight. What matters is to give it meaning and to defend the general interest. We can make mistakes, we can technically move forward, but what is important is to be at the heart of the subject and to act on a reality that is experienced as oppressive about the issue of land and land. That is true for Corsica, but it is also true elsewhere – and our reflections will have to help us to act more broadly. As has been said on various benches, it is a matter, through this symbolic political and democratic act, of beginning to converge, in order to give substance to reconciliation. Not that there was no friendship between us, but I am obviously talking about an old political and historical problem between the Republic and Corsica that has not yet been fully resolved. There are still many open wounds, and land and land are one of them. That is why taking the subject at arm-the-body, walking, searching, convincing, amending, is an element of answer. This shows that a political and historical compromise is possible on this question: it is not "circulate, there is nothing to see". Yes, you have to go into the subject; Yes, it must be resolved; Yes, Corsica must be given the capacity to meet the historic and democratic aspirations of the islanders. Our debate today must lead us to consider that what is stronger than anything else is democracy, because a republic without democracy is worth nothing. The prerequisite for the Republic and the values of the Republic – and that is what we welcome – is respect for democracy. It has expressed itself in Corsica as it is today. The solutions must come from this democratic dimension; That is what we call our vows. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, I thank all the groups, as well as the minister for her words in the contradictory exchange that we had. We would like the dialogue to continue with the executive. I can say that the strenuousness we have collectively shown – not just me – on this issue will persist, since we have the opportunity to put it on the Orders of the Day of the Senate thanks to the senators from our movement. We will continue, but with the hope that the political and historical compromise with the executive will finally be born, and will be at the level expected by Corsicans, always at the service of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u198	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u199	Thank you all for this useful debate. I would like to return to three points. First of all, social housing is a very important subject in our country, and especially for Corsica, since we know that the proportion of social housing is not sufficient. I therefore hope, Mr Coquerel, that you will be present next Tuesday in the Chamber to vote on the 3DS law, which will allow you to support the extension of the SRU law that this government, and in particular the deputy minister Emmanuelle Wargon, has defended. Otherwise, as you know, the SRU law should end in 2025. I would therefore like to thank you in advance for your support to the Government...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u200	You didn't hear me! It's a joke!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u201	... in favour of social housing. Secondly, as I recalled earlier, this government is the one that has enshrined in an organic law the right to experiment. In addition, we recognize and institutionalize, in particular with the 3DS Act, the right to differentiation. The Government is therefore moving towards the solutions you are looking for, but always respecting the constitutional framework. Many refer to the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, due to General de Gaulle, and I see that a number of candidates refer constantly to General de Gaulle. I say this very simply: the principle, when you are in government, is respect for the Constitution. Finally, I thank everyone – the Bretons, Mrs Rouaux, the Corsicans, and all the Members present here, from all the French regions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u202	There are only citizens in the French Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u203	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on several benches of the LT group]] Corsica, Brittany and other regions are part of the wealth of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a brief suspension of the sitting before proceeding with our agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u205	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u206	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u207	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to ensure the ethical observance of organ donation by our non-European partners (No 3316, 4037).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u208	Mrs Frédérique Dumas, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u209	" Organ trafficking is a practice of extreme gravity. This inhuman practice violates the fundamental principles of our law and our democratic model: human dignity and the principle of the non-patrimoniality of the human body. These are the words of Minister Franck Riester when he ratified the Compostela Convention on organ trafficking. After words, we need actions. The purpose of this bill, tabled in September 2020 and co-signed by nearly seventy Members, is therefore to ensure that our ethical principles are respected by our non-European partners, to oblige our public and private hospitals and research centres to an effective and concrete duty of vigilance. Signing international agreements, ratifying them, writing in our bilateral cooperation conventions that the countries with which we contract must be in conformity with our principles is essential, but everyone is well aware that this is not enough. While the explanatory memorandum for this bill is aimed specifically at the People's Republic of China, it is for three fundamental reasons. First of all, unlike most countries affected by the scourge of organ trafficking, China's situation is unique. These acts are not primarily committed by mafia and criminal organizations, but are organized, institutionalized and directly encouraged by the State. On the other hand, it was our moral duty to reveal the magnitude of the problem, to focus on the accumulation of evidence of what constitutes crimes against humanity on a large scale. Finally, China has been one of our main partners in medical, health and research for more than 20 years. While the obligation to comply with French and international laws and regulations is at the heart of these conventions, while there are many so-called ethical committees, there is no real control and no real regulation. I'll prove it. There is no reliable practical tool to verify the effectiveness of these commitments and no obligation to challenge these conventions in the event of China's refusal of transparency. If you take the time to read the explanatory memorandum, you will no longer be able to say that you do not know, you will no longer be able to say that there is no need to legislate, you will no longer be able to close your eyes and maintain your deletion amendments without a state of mind by arguing that this bill would be inoperative. On 31 January, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution which recommended, inter alia, that States Parties exercise great caution "with regard to cooperation with the China Organ Transplant Response System and the Chinese Red Cross". In analysing the official Chinese figures on organ donation, the researchers realized that these figures corresponded to a simple mathematical function and then gave a perfect mathematical curve, which is impossible in this industry. On 14 June 2021, United Nations experts acknowledged that they were very alarmed by the "credible" reports they received on the practice of forced organ removal in China of prisoners from ethnic, linguistic and religious minorities, Uighur, Kazakh, Kyrgyz, Tibetan and Falun Gong. Today, at least one million people are being held in camps. The list of evidence is just getting longer. The surveys revealed that between 600,000 and 100,000 organ transplants would be performed annually in China, compared with 19,000 according to official figures. Another category of evidence is the extremely short time frame for obtaining a transplant. This has been demonstrated through numerous telephone surveys, recorded or in hidden cameras. The average time is fourteen days, two days in some cases, or even a few hours. In France, the average delay is between two and three years. Furthermore, the lack of transparency and consent has been documented on numerous occasions. The results of the survey conducted by bioethician Wendy Rogers, among others, revealed that of 445 studies conducted in China, 92.7% of the publications did not specify the source of the organs used and 99% did not indicate whether or not the organ donation had been the subject of prior consent. Another category of evidence is the spatialization of the camps. In Aksu Prefecture, Xinjiang, following the work of investigative journalist Ethan Gutmann, one can see through satellite images a particularly morbid organization. On a surface of only one square kilometre are two detention camps, one populated by 16,000 prisoners and the other by 33,000. Right next door, Aksu's infectious disease hospital. To the north, 900 meters from the two camps, a huge crematorium. Aksu Hospital is only a 20-minute drive from an express airport lane called "Green Canal". The camps began to be identified in 2015. These first "green passages" were initiated in Eastern China in 2016 by China's most prolific cardiac surgeon, Dr Chen Jingsu of the Wuxi People's Hospital, and by China Southern Airlines. They appeared at the airports of Kashgar and Urumqi, Xinjiang, as crematoriums began to be built. These links were openly labelled as "Special Passengers, Human Organ Export Lines". Indeed, it is necessary to go quickly because, once taken, the human organs have only a short period of viability before being transplanted – about four hours. The use of extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation techniques, organ infusion systems and associated portable devices, used both for live organ removal and long-range transport, greatly enhance the organ's viability – more than 20 hours. What is the final destination? One of the destinations is Hangzhou's first hospital in Zhejiang province, not far from Shanghai, which has a formal "big brother" relationship, as he himself says, with Aksu's infectious disease hospital. It is one of ten certified extracorporeal membrane oxygenation training centres in China.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u210	Since 2017, liver transplants have increased by 90% and kidney transplants by more than 200%. On March 1, 2020, Hangzhou Hospital successfully completed the first double lung transplant on a covid patient -19 – it was advertised. Another category of evidence is health checks and blood tests performed on inmates in the camps, along with electrocardiograms and lung and other organ scanners. Such examinations, carried out approximately every two months, have become regular; They are documented by the testimonies of survivors of the camps. Disappearances of persons aged 25 to 30, the age at which growth is complete but organs are in very good health, are regular. Although they are homeopathic, they account for between 2.5% and 5% of cases per camp. Another category of evidence is communication campaigns to encourage foreigners, particularly from Gulf countries, to travel to China for organ transplants. I invite you to visit http://www.tran-kid.com; fully translated into Arabic, he says on his homepage: "We're here to help foreign patients looking for a kidney, heart, liver or lung transplant in China" – I'll give you the details. China's former vice-minister of health, responsible for the organ transplant program, said on 26 July 2017 in Beijing: "China should be the first country for organ donation by 2020. » I stop there for lack of time, even if the list of evidence is much longer. Yet we are told: "Circulate, there is nothing to see. The Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, never replied to the letters I sent to him, neither to the letter of July 28, 2020, nor to the letter of December 15, 2020, nor, of course, to the letter of January 25, 2020. His cabinet replied to a journalist from Le Monde in November 2020, who shared the "intent of the signing MPs' approach" but "there was no need for new legislation. » Yet, here too, the evidence of the lack of evaluation and control is there. Chinese doctor Zheng Shusen, a specialist in liver transplantation at the first hospital affiliated with the University of Zhejiang, saw some of his publications removed from the scientific journal Liver International, because for years he had never provided the origin of the donations or proof of consent. In 2017, France welcomed Dr.Zheng as a foreign correspondent of the National Academy of Medicine. It was only after the sending of a letter on my part that the Academy confessed not to hold all the information that I had developed and assured that the relations with Dr. Zheng would be frozen and his file re-educated. Since then, we have no news, but nine months later, his name was still on the Academy's website – we will return to it. I sent them a new mail and it hasn't been there in two days. In carrying out some investigations of French hospitals, it is also apparent that some self-execute their essential duty of vigilance, but others do not take this precaution; We will also come back to that. The Directorate-General for the Provision of Care (DGOS) of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, in a report issued in 2020, itself stressed that international hospital cooperation was the subject of a lack of monitoring and evaluation. I invite you to read the recent report of the IRSEM – Strategic Research Institute of the Military School – entitled "Chinese Influence Operations, a Machiavellian Moment." "There have been decades of eastbound rushes, against the backdrop of competition to position themselves, with a very weak knowledge of China. Transparency should be imposed, to begin with; Above all, we should end the illusion of a universal science in which all partners respect certain principles. Even if there is no cold war with China, should we allow dual cooperation? This finding, who does it? Who's asking that question? He is former Minister for European Affairs, now a Member of the European Parliament, Nathalie Loiseau, coordinator of the Special Committee on Foreign Interference and Chairman of the European Parliament's Sub-Committee on Security and Defence (SEDE). The majority therefore proposes that we close our eyes, in France, to what is denounced in Strasbourg by a prominent member of his party. It is in order to avoid an unsustainable gap between words and actions that this bill, which I am defending today alongside many of my colleagues, proposes to develop effective assessment and control tools, by conditioning the signing and extension of agreements and agreements on cooperation with health and research institutions in countries not members of the European Union to the effective monitoring of compliance by these institutions with the principles of ethics laid down in French law. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and SOC groups. "Mr. Brahim Hammouche also applauds]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to withdraw your deletion amendments, whose summary statements are surreal. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of this bill, so that at the end of the parliamentary session, a few months after the end of our term of office, France can live up to the main principles it claims to uphold. I know that many and many are the ones who, on these benches, will accompany me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u211	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u212	Today we are looking at the proposal for a law to guarantee the ethical respect of organ donation by our non-European partners, presented by Mrs Frédérique Dumas, within the reserved area of the Libertés et territoires group. In essence, it proposes a review of international cooperation agreements concluded by French health institutions with foreign health institutions or universities. The concern behind this text, rejected by your Social Affairs Committee last spring, concerns possible forced organ removals from prisoners, including political prisoners, which are currently being practised in China and which should be stopped. It is this same concern that led to the adoption by the Assembly of the resolution on the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of the systematic political violence and the crimes against humanity currently committed by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs, and calling for an independent international investigation. The Government would like to recall that it obviously shares the concern of the rapporteur that the ethical principles relating to the donation, removal and transplantation of organs by our international non-European partners are respected. Illicit trafficking in human organs for transplant purposes exists internationally. This trafficking, contrary to human rights and fundamental freedoms, constitutes an attack on the ethical principles enshrined in French law, first and foremost the integrity and non-patrimoniality of the human body. Various means have been used, both at national and international level, to combat this criminal activity, which poses a real danger to public and individual health. The Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, known as the Santiago de Compostela Convention, reinforces existing international law in this field. It guarantees respect for the principles enshrined in the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, known as the Oviedo Convention, ratified by France in 2011. It strengthens the overall security of the transplant system in Europe by imposing criminal penalties for organ trafficking and consolidating the modalities for international cooperation in this field. It also provides for the strengthening of the protection of victims. France also actively participated in the elaboration of the Santiago de Compostela Convention and signed it in November 2019. The bill authorizing its ratification was passed by your assembly a few days ago, on 27 January, unanimously. However, France did not wait for the Convention to intervene in order to seize the subject. The legislator has entrusted the Agency for Biomedicine with the task of conducting every two years a survey of dialysis and transplant centres, in order to identify all French transplanted from a kidney abroad. As a result, the number of people involved is very low: five between 2019 and 2020, and about 90 since the 2000s. These are usually transplants made from a live donor, related to the recipient, in the country of origin of the persons concerned and in accordance with the law of that country. With regard specifically to China, no channel of organ trafficking involving French nationals in China has been identified to date. Contrary to what this bill suggests, there is even less transplant tourism from France to China. Although the Government shares – once again – the intention of the proposal on the substance, we believe that the proposed amendments present different risks. The proposal aims to subject the signing of the so-called cooperation agreements between French and foreign health institutions – outside the European Union – to a prior and a posteriori verification of compliance with the French ethical principles. The Government obviously attaches great importance to the fact that French doctors and researchers work under conditions consistent with international commitments to protect bioethics principles. Thus, public or private non-profit health institutions are already obliged, in all their activities, including the signing of international cooperation agreements, to respect these principles. However, the control of their non-violation remains complex; Making technical cooperation conditional on binding guarantees in this respect does not appear to be proportionate. Instead, after ratification of the Santiago de Compostela Convention, the Government favours raising the awareness of French actors in international cooperation in this field. Finally, the bill provides that the National Advisory Committee on Ethics (CCNE) verifies the signing of cooperation agreements on organ transplantation between French health institutions and foreign partners. However, the CCNE is not intended to monitor the conformity of these conventions with the ethical principles enshrined in French law, nor is the Agency for Biomedicine. As you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against organ trafficking is obviously essential. We will continue to fight with conviction against all forms of trafficking and human trafficking, building on the extensive legal and diplomatic arsenal that we already have. For all these reasons, the Government will not be in favour of the bill that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u213	In the general discussion, Mr Jean-Michel Clément spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u214	Today, the Olympic Winter Games are opening in Beijing. The eyes of the world will be turned to the opening ceremony which, as in 2008, will be a staging of Chinese power. On the same day, in Xinjiang, far from the cameras, in indifference, men and women may be removed from their internment camp, as others were before them. Forcedly brought to hospitals, their bodies will be mutilated, their organs will be removed and many will not survive. These organs will then be transported by special aircraft and transplanted to rich patients. This is the reality of today's world, in a country called to become the world's first power, if it is not already. Our group joined other voices, other consciences, in denouncing the abuses committed against the Uighur people by the Chinese authorities. Together with our colleague Frédérique Dumas, we tabled and supported two motions for resolutions to condemn crimes against humanity and the proven risk of genocide at work in Xinjiang, but also to act. We regret that, for political reasons, the motion for a resolution that we were defending has been withdrawn from our agenda.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u215	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u216	Nevertheless, through this bill, we are contributing to an awareness of an institutionalized system of forced removals and trafficking in organs, organized by a State. Indeed, while China has officially banned the removal of prisoners' organs carried out in 2015, independent investigations have concluded that such practices persist. Worse, the so-called prisoners of conscience – Tibetans, Uighurs, Christians – are also the victims of these heinous acts. Last year, in committee, the majority rejected this bill. Since then, the situation has not changed and the evidence has accumulated. There is no longer room for doubt. The investigations of journalist Ethan Gutmann show the existence of "green passages", which allow the organs to reach hospitals directly from the rehabilitation camps. The testimony of the China Tribunal refers to medical tests by Falun Gong practitioners and Uighurs imprisoned in the camps. According to this group of lawyers appointed as an independent tribunal, which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has recently heard, the existence of forced organ removals is indisputable. China has little to hide from this: the promotion of transplant tourism exists. It promises time for transplants that defy all competition: 12 days on average, and 150,000 euros for a heart – there is something terrifying to say these words. Recently, institutions have finally seized on this subject. On 31 January 2020, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution which recommended that States exercise great caution with regard to cooperation with the Chinese authorities. And last June, it was the United Nations that was very alarmed at the reports received on the practice of forced organ removals in China. The charges are grievous, the evidence is consistent. And we should stay silent so we don't frown a partner and a great power? We are well aware of the seriousness of our remarks. Caution requires us to ensure that we do not wrongly accuse a State, but our conscience must also lead us not to look away when such violations are proven. The bill we are submitting to you is of course of general scope, but the case of China is special. Unlike other countries where such practices are carried out by criminal and mafia organizations, this phenomenon is massively organized and encouraged by the authorities. Faced with the accumulation of evidence recalled by my colleague Frédérique Dumas, the principles of "certain doubt", of "precaution" must apply in the name of the duty of vigilance. This duty requires us first to denounce. We did so by adopting the resolution condemning the genocide and crimes against humanity perpetrated by China against the Uighurs. But what is this conviction worth if it is not followed by actions? The mechanism we propose has the merit of not falling into interference or arbitrary accusation. It is a simple tool based on a simple principle: no scientific and medical cooperation in cases of non-compliance with the ethical principles of human dignity. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and LR groups. – Mr. Brahim Hammouche also applauds]] We can no longer close our eyes to the ongoing abuses: yesterday's suspicions have become proven facts. In the face of these barbaric and inhuman acts, to remain silent is to be complacent; Not to act is to be an accomplice. With this text, we propose that you act, modestly, but act in responsibility. It is our duty as parliamentarians to say so from this rostrum.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u217	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u218	Organ transplantation is one of the greatest advances that has been offered to us by scientific research and medicine. Every day, in France and elsewhere, transplants save lives and lighten daily newspapers gnawed by illness and suffering. However, transplantation can only exist if it is based on a few simple and intransigent ethical principles, such as the freeness of the organ and, of course, the absence of constraint during removal. While delays and lack of organs often put a painful brake on these medical miracles, we know that they can under no circumstances justify trafficking, transplant tourism or the use of forced removals. These basic ethical rules are sometimes circumvented abroad. This can range from cases of organ sales constrained by poverty in some countries, to massive situations of trafficking and forced removal in others. The Biomedicine Agency's report on kidney transplants performed abroad with potentially donor-sourced organs that have been paid shows that there are many countries involved. He reports about 60 cases since 2000 concerning India, Turkey, China, Egypt, Lebanon, Pakistan, Russia, Thailand, Iran, Israel, Australia or Syria. The lack of transparency on the origin of transplanted organs is a recurring and institutional problem in China, as you have pointed out. This country is at the centre of this text and of current events, but it is not the only country concerned. The lack of transparency is all the more worrying given that the number of clandestine transplants would reach 90,000 per year and is accompanied by suspicions of organ removals from live prisoners. In the face of such serious suspicions, crimes that would be such an ignominy, the advantage of this text is that it does not merely suspect, detect or condemn in the air, but proposes acts. This text makes it possible to act. It calls for concrete diplomatic and health levers so that we can fight this kind of horror. In this regard, I would reply to the Secretary of State that even if we still ask ourselves questions about the facts, the precautionary principle must prevail and push us to act. It would be incomprehensible to oppose such a healthy and necessary principle. I would point out to our colleagues in the LaREM Group, who have tabled deletion amendments, that in the face of suspicion of such crimes against humanity, it would be inconceivable for this House to one day agree to denounce a genocide against the Uighurs, which would be the fourth in history, while refusing to act to stop the crimes against the same population. By the way, I note that some propose simply denouncing genocide against the Uighurs, without taking action if it is proven. For the same reason, the Group of the European People's Party would have supported the text on the Uighurs, which we should have debated today if it had not been withdrawn as mentioned above. The text corresponded to the situation observed by international human rights associations. In addition, he proposed concrete actions in the form of international investigations, not just a mere denunciation. This text would have made it possible to follow the great words of concrete acts, in response to the wish expressed by my comrade Clementine Autain in this Chamber. She wanted "unanimity... to defend the Uighur people for the long term through acts that prevent the worst of inhumanity from unfolding and repeating itself." The point of this text is to propose concretely to verify and prevent such facts, even if we may have differences of opinion as to their extent. We will obviously vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u219	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u220	This bill is important in many respects. First of all, it addresses the delicate issue of organ donation, which is a major concern for us French parliamentarians. Indeed, it was at the end of many years of intellectual exchange and contributions that our country was able to build a philosophy of gift looked at with great interest throughout the world. This philosophy is based on essential pillars such as respect for the body of the living and deceased person, the non-patrimoniality of the human body, consent, anonymity of the donor and finally the gratuity of the gift. More than incantatory formulas, these great principles allow us, as legislators, to find the right compromise between the advances made possible by science and the ethical forms that they must give our lives. This bill is also important because our debate is in an international context that no one can ignore. Let us say it from the outset: we are opposed to any attempt at political interference, especially when one State seeks to apply to others what it refuses to apply to itself. Each country is sovereign for the policy it intends to pursue. However, we cannot remain deaf to the many warnings that are coming to us about organ trafficking taking place in China. I am thinking here of the work carried out by non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which call for an immediate response by the international community against the organisation of detention camps, forced labour, crimes and organ removals from the Uighurs. We also call for a delegation mandated by the United Nations to visit the country to investigate and hold accountable those responsible for crimes of international law. The delegation could also shed light on the fate of Chinese Falun Gong citizens and Christians in domestic churches. At the domestic level, it must be admitted that the Chinese authorities have made organ trafficking illegal and that in 2015 they officially put an end to organ removals from executed prisoners. Under these decisions, the transplant system must now be based exclusively on organ donation. Of which act. However, the figures at our disposal still invite us to the utmost caution, as the differences in time for obtaining a transplant appear disproportionate between Europe and the Middle Ages. That is why we reaffirm, through this bill, the principles which are ours and which will apply reciprocally to all our non-European partners. However, we are aware that the scope of the mechanism will be limited. First of all, because the National Ethics Advisory Committee will be struggling to verify that the ethical criteria set out in this text will be met. Second, because our hospitals have already greatly reduced the wing of our organ donation exchanges with Chinese health care facilities. As for the French and French, everything indicates that they do not go to China to benefit from transplants. In any case, this is what the Ministry of Health says: only one French citizen would have received a transplant in China in 2004. But the most important thing is elsewhere. Like the positions we held during the discussions on the bioethics law, we are claiming an ethical philosophy whose foundations do not vary according to the circumstances. We believe in man and his ability to make his choices in autonomy, between the tissues of reason, his heart and his own ethical conceptions. We believe that we must accompany the new opportunities offered by medicine, in the hope that they will improve the quality of life of the greatest number of human beings. But this progress in no way obliges us to yield to the darkest drifts of barbarism and eugenics. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] So be certain that Communist parliamentarians will always confront these practices that are contrary to the humanist philosophy that drives us deeply. That is why we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u221	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u222	The bill defended by Frédérique Dumas gives us the opportunity to revisit two issues addressed by our assembly over the last fifteen days: the abuses committed against Uighur populations; the fight against trafficking in human organs. On 20 January, we adopted a motion for a resolution recognizing and condemning the violence committed against the Uighurs, solemnly declaring our support for these victims of systematic persecution. A week later, we unanimously adopted the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, a decisive legal instrument in the fight against this abominable criminal activity. Madam rapporteur, if the examination of your bill comes chronologically as a follow-up to these two texts, it is in fact only an appearance of continuity: it allows for real progress, while your bill falls short of the ambitions it sets itself. As I had the opportunity to point out in the Committee on Social Affairs, the right of parliamentary initiative cannot be confused with the freedom of each and every one of us to communicate publicly the political messages that lead to it. A bill is intended to change legislation, not to fill the office with a forum that could appear in any daily newspaper. Moreover, and beyond the mere risk of legislative inflation, the adoption of Mr Dumas's bill would not allow our House to replace the conclusions of an international mission of independent observers. Worse, by thus devoting our own means of action, we would significantly interfere with the effectiveness of efforts by collective essence. France has the necessary operational means to combat the scourges of medical ethics and trafficking in human organs. Article L. 6134-1 of the Code de la santé publique, which this bill intends to reform, already requires the conclusion of partnerships in the field of health to comply with the international commitments undertaken by the French State. The first of these commitments is the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of the Human Being in Respect of the Applications of Biology and Medicine, known as the Oviedo Convention, signed by France in 1997 and ratified in 2011, which contains extremely clear stipulations regarding respect for ethical principles in the field of organ removal and transplantation. More recently, the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, recalled by several speakers, has perfected the legal arsenal of States with regard to cooperation and the fight against such practices. As I indicated earlier, our Assembly has honoured itself by unanimously authorizing the ratification of this treaty, which will undoubtedly play a decisive role at the international level. Moreover, this proposal would not only be superfate. It would also be inoperative in practice, since both the original text and the proposed rewrite require the institutions concerned to carry out their own verification of compliance with our ethical principles by their potential partners in order to justify it to the Biomedicine Agency. This requirement suggests that the physical impossibility of an institution to carry out this verification will lead to the presumption of violation of our own ethical principles. Therefore, while the risk of harming the French scientific teams is certain, the chance of effectively halting the intolerable practices referred to in this text is virtually nil. We are convinced that only a concerted multilateral approach, involving both adequate legal mechanisms and all the levers of influence at the disposal of our diplomacy, will put an end to the practices denounced in the text we are considering. You will have understood this: this statement of inefficiency, coupled with the recent adoption by our assembly of a resolution to condemn the violence committed against the Uighur population, leads us to consider that this bill, which is primarily part of a forum against the practices of the Beijing regime, has no justification for its adoption. As a result, the La République en marche group will not vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u223	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u224	The proposal for a law which we are considering at the initiative of our colleague Frédérique Dumas aims to guarantee the ethical respect of organ donation by our non-European partners and to regulate partnership contracts between French and non-European health institutions, in order to ensure that biomedical and scientific ethics are respected. A few numbers first, to set the scene: in 2021, 5273 transplants were carried out in France, a number in decline since 2017. Although the figures observed in 2020 and 2021 are of course largely due to the health crisis and the deprogramming of many operations, the number of transplants carried out each year is far from meeting demand. Despite the efforts made by the authorities, health professionals and all public authorities, too many people in France died because of the lack of timely organ transplants. This context of "organ shortage", which also applies at the global level, has led to the tragic development of forced removal, organ trafficking and transplant tourism. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 5 to 10 per cent of organ transplants worldwide are carried out with organs derived from trafficking, or about 15,000 transplants per year, an absolutely frightening figure. The authors and co-signatories of this bill, of which I am a member, consider the People's Republic of China to be the most serious example of this transplant tourism, particularly in view of the institutionalized practice of forced organ removal introduced there. As has already been pointed out, these arrests are carried out on prisoners, particularly of opinion, and on members of ethnic or religious minorities particularly targeted and persecuted by the Beijing regime, as evidenced by their internment in camps. Several independent investigations, supporting documents, argue that forced organ removals, particularly of prisoners and interned persons, are continuing in China, despite the adoption by the Chinese government in 2007 of a first law regulating transplantation, followed by the official ban, since 2015, on the removal of organs of executed prisoners. In June 2019, the China Tribunal, an independent London-based tribunal composed of lawyers and researchers, concluded with certainty that forced organ removals have taken place in multiple locations in the People's Republic of China and on multiple occasions, over a period of at least 20 years, and are continuing to date. He calls them crimes against humanity. It is therefore vital, and even vital, to combat these totally unworthy practices and to punish those involved in these crimes. This is what several countries – Spain, Italy, Israel, Taiwan – have done by amending their national legislation, in order to more severely condemn those of their nationals who are allegedly complicit in these atrocities. It should be recalled that France can pride itself on having a legislative bloc in the field of medical and scientific bioethics that is envious of us all over the world. These include the Act of 22 December 1976 on organ removals, known as the Caillavet Act, the opinions of the National Advisory Committee on Ethics for the Life and Health Sciences and several bioethics laws. It is in this context and bearing in mind our main principles that we must address the discussion of this text. The European Parliament, as has been said, has voted on two very specific resolutions. Last Thursday, our Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, known as the Compostela Convention, which, in its preamble, recognises that organ trafficking constitutes a global threat, against which European countries must fight effectively. Very well – of which act. But we need to go further and take concrete action now. We believe that France's reservations at the time of the signing of the Compostela Convention make it difficult for people involved in transplant tourism and organ trafficking to be brought before the French courts, for example, even though it seems to us to be a minimum requirement in order to combat this scourge effectively. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] We also believe that this proposal for a law complements in concrete terms the Compostela Convention and allows us to go further by amending domestic law to regulate cooperation agreements between French health institutions – public or private – and non-European ones, in order to prevent French structures from becoming complicit in human rights violations with regard to organ transplantation. The Republicans had voted in favour of this bill when the text was discussed in the Social Affairs Committee in March 2021. I confirm that we will still vote with great determination today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u225	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u226	The proposal for a law which we are considering aims to strengthen the framework for scientific cooperation agreements which may be signed by health institutions or by French research institutions with centres established in third countries. The various mechanisms provided for in the text thus lay down the principle of a condition of verification, a priori and a posteriori, of respect for the ethical principles of prior consent to the donation of organs and of free donation in the third country concerned. As stated in the Explanatory Memorandum, the text focuses on scientific interactions with China, a country that is regularly accused of forced organ removal from prisoners, including political or religious minorities such as the Uighurs. If we share the rapporteur's concerns on these issues, we question the practical impact of such a text on China's domestic policy. Moreover, will we measure its potential impact on our international scientific influence, especially in the current context, which makes cooperation the key word? The adoption of this bill could paralyse the processes of international partnerships in health and research, but could not achieve the goal of stopping forced removals of organs that the Chinese authorities are accused of doing. Defining a new national normative framework may seem virtuous at first glance. However, by looking more closely, such a measure appears to be more inoperative than anything else. Our structures are already monitoring compliance with these principles as part of their international cooperation activities: the Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale (INSERM), the Institut Pasteur and the Agence de la biomédecin have each of the ad hoc ethics committees. For smaller structures which cannot carry out such checks, the text establishes a presumption of transgression of ethical principles, in the name of the precautionary principle. Such a provision is not legally tenable and would entail a considerable loss of influence by France in the field of ethical medical research. Because by building partnerships, our research teams are driving and transmitting our ethical principles around the world. This soft power strategy, which has been driven for decades, would be greatly affected by the proposed device. Such legislation does not seem to us to be the most appropriate way for France to exert a real influence on its Chinese partner. We believe that the diplomatic and European field is a more effective vehicle in the fight against organ trafficking and human trafficking. It is in this perspective that France signed in 2019 the Santiago de Compostela Convention, which secures the European transplantation system and imposes criminal penalties for organ trafficking. The ratification law was adopted last week in this House. While the national framework for organ donation and transplantation is already very rigorous and robust, the entry into force of this convention demonstrates France's commitment at the international level to tackle organ trafficking, which constitutes a profound violation of human rights at the same time as it tarnishes the scientific progress represented by organ transplants. We believe that it is at the supranational level, alongside our European partners in particular, that we can exert influence. Moreover, ratification of this Convention, because of the hierarchy of norms establishing the superiority of European law over national law, would ultimately nullify the scope of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Our legislative arsenal seems to us to be dense enough to combat the scourge of organ trafficking. This bill, whose spirit is quite commendable but which contains technically inoperative measures, would not strengthen it. For all these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will not support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u227	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u228	We thank the Libertés et Territoires Group for putting this text on the agenda of its parliamentary niche day and thus allowing us to debate a highly ethical issue. As we know, France suffers from a serious organ shortage: it is estimated that up to 30% of patients on the waiting lists die before they have benefited from a transplant. However, we cannot accept that organ imports into France do not respect the principles of human dignity and informed consent of donors. Nor can we pretend to ignore international reports denouncing criminal practices, such as the real organ removal industry in China on political prisoners. In 2016, a report prepared by a Canadian MP estimated the number of clandestine transplants to be 90,000 per year. Of course, in 2019 France signed the Santiago de Compostela Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs. However, it is still difficult, if not impossible, to ensure that those involved in transplant tourism and organ trafficking are brought before our courts. Despite the provisions of the Penal Code and the Public Health Code, which aim respectively to punish abuses and to ensure that ethical principles are respected, it appears that the current law is insufficient to combat such practices. It is therefore essential to strengthen our legislation. This is all the more urgent because France is lagging behind in this area: Taiwan, Israel, but also neighbouring countries such as Spain and Italy, have already amended their national legislation in order to punish more severely those involved in these crimes and thus prevent their citizens from complicit in these atrocities. That is the whole purpose of this bill. Last year, when we examined it in the Committee on Social Affairs, we welcomed the provisions contained therein, which we considered necessary to make progress on this issue. We felt that careful consideration of the text was indispensable and regretted its rejection by the committee. Even today, the majority, by means of deletion amendments, intends to empty the text of any content, without proposing anything in return. We deplore him and will continue to support this ethical bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u229	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u230	I would like to point out from the outset that the members of the Agres ensemble group have been defending a freedom of opinion they have held to since its creation. That is why our group will not vote: everyone will vote in accordance with their own convictions, since this text is not unanimous in the group. I will therefore speak on my behalf and that is how I will express my support for Frédérique Dumas' bill, of which I am co-signatory as many members of my group. This bill seeks to secure the ethical respect of organ donation by our non-European partners "in order to protect human beings and life", as was rightly pointed out in the explanatory memorandum. While organ transplantation, which saves many lives every day, is a considerable advance in medicine and technology, it can also, like any progress, be diverted for malicious purposes. Illegal organ donation practices feed on the number of donation requests and lead to the development of what is tragically called transplant tourism. The WHO estimates that 5 to 10 per cent of organ transplants performed worldwide from a deceased donor result from an illegal practice. Contrary to what has been said in our previous debates, these figures do not seem marginal to me. Without free, informed and specific consent of the donor, organ donation is no longer an act of solidarity, but of torture and exploitation of persons. These forced removals must then be taken for what they are: a serious violation of human dignity and trafficking in human beings, regardless of the number of cases, which does not justify anything. We must firmly defend our positions on this subject at the national level. It is in this perspective that the international community affirmed its position in the face of these criminal practices by signing the so-called Compostela Convention on 25 March 2015, adding France to the list of signatory countries in 2019. Ratification of this international convention was authorized by a unanimous vote of the National Assembly on 27 January 2022. In the face of this finding, and in order to ensure that this commitment can be translated into French domestic law and be reinforced by sanctions in case of non-observance of the ethics of organ donations, the present bill aims to improve the supervision of donations. It thus targets cooperation agreements between French health institutions and centres established in non-European third countries. While France is part of an approach of cooperation and collaboration with its foreign partners, we reaffirm in this text our desire for full transparency and greater respect for human rights, which must be a fundamental principle of our international trade. Big words? Maybe, but we have to give them substance. I therefore find it difficult to understand the intellectual path that leads some to believe that we would weaken our partnerships with non-European countries because of our ethical requirement. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u231	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u232	Ethics and respect for human rights must be our compass and no other economic, financial or political consideration can supplant them. The purpose of this proposal for a law is therefore to subject the cooperation agreements to double verification, a priori and a posteriori, in order to ensure that the ethical principles prior to the donation of organs in the third countries concerned are respected, whether these conventions are signed by public or private health institutions: this is the subject of Articles 1 and 2. The main purpose of this double check would be to verify the prior consent of the donation and the free consent of the donation. In addition, the signing of agreements is prohibited in the event of a lack of auditable guarantees of compliance with the principles or if penalties for breach of the rules of ethics are not provided for, as provided for in Articles 3 and 4 respectively. The authors of the text thus wish to avoid the involvement, directly or indirectly, of French doctors, health personnel or institutions, without their knowledge, in channels of organ trafficking, whose practices they deeply reject. I would remind you that this bill is part of an international context that is supported by the signing of international agreements to respect the ethics of organ donation. While there is no mention of China in its articles, the explanatory memorandum repeatedly challenges China and its human rights policy. However, it seems to us important to recall that to date no Chinese channel of organ trafficking involving French nationals has been identified. Even if such a situation has never been discovered so far by the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs or the Agency for Biomedicine, we must continue to vigorously defend human rights and strict respect for the ethics of organ donation. So these are preventive measures – I say preventive measures – in order to avoid any drift and to clarify our national position on such a sensitive subject. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens, LR and LT groups]] As you will have understood, I will personally vote in favour of this text, because it is in line with France's national and international commitments, which make our beautiful country human rights one, and because it provides useful and necessary guarantees to secure scientific cooperation with our non-European partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u233	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u234	Even if it is not directly targeted, everyone has understood that it is China that we are dealing with in the bill. This country does not respect ethical principles regarding the removal of organs as they result from international law, the first of which is free and informed consent. China organizes trafficking within its own population by taking organs from prisoners or ethnic or religious minorities. We are therefore dealing here with a rogue state, which is wiping its feet on the most basic human rights in the field of organ transplantation. If this were not the case, by what miraculous alchemy a few days would they be enough in China to get a transplant while several years are needed in metropolitan France? I do not doubt the competitiveness of the Chinese economy and medical establishments, but to justify this gap, it would have to have reached quite unreasonable levels. The aim of this text – which of course includes imperfections – is to protect our health and research institutions from collaboration with their Chinese counterparts as long as they are unable to prove that they respect the principles of transplantation. There is nothing extraordinary to ask for respect for these basic principles. We must take the necessary precautions with regard to countries where the levy is made on live donors or where the levy on deceased donors is not sufficiently developed – China, India, Pakistan, the Philippines, Bangladesh, Egypt, Mexico, Cambodia and Sri Lanka. This bill is in line with this; So we can only support it. In order to justify their choice not to vote on this text, some highlight the fact that the Compostela Convention, whose ratification has been approved by Parliament, in particular by my group, already calls on governments to criminalize the unlawful removal of human organs from living or deceased donors in the absence of free and informed consent or free donation. The entry into force of this international convention would therefore render the present bill null and void. My group believes that these two texts are complementary. Several articles of the Compostela Convention are deprived of effect in view of the reservations of interpretation formulated by France, which has conditioned the application of certain provisions to the submission of a complaint by the victim or to a denunciation by the authorities of the State in which the offence was committed. Of course, the convention, which had been ratified, was generous and a step forward, because it laid down principles. But it will also be understood that the implementation modalities will be difficult. Regrettably, it is feared that the majority of cases will go through the cracks of international law thus established. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] For all these reasons, the IDU and independent group supports the bill. He hoped that the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union would help put this issue on the table, as it was at the forefront of human rights concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u235	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u236	Vigilance and intransigence must be the norm when it comes to ethics, dignity and human life. I will not go back to the case of China: my colleagues Frédérique Dumas and Jean-Michel Clément have already explained that a bundle of clues attest to the existence of a state system of forced organ removal. Instead, I would like to stress the limitations of our legal arsenal in the fight against organ trafficking and transplant tourism. When we tabled this bill last year, France had still not ratified the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, known as the Compostela Convention, which it signed in 2019. It called on Governments to criminalize the unlawful removal of human organs and introduced measures to protect and compensate victims of organ trafficking. Our assembly finally ratified it last week and I welcome it. However, we continue to regret the reservations made by our country, which severely limit the scope of this convention. Thus, France will exercise its jurisdiction only if the acts are also punished by the legislation of the country in which they were committed and only if they have been the subject of a formal complaint or denunciation by the authorities of the country in question. This considerably reduces the scope of the device. These reservations exclude, for example, prisoners of conscience who are victims of forced organ removals and who are sentenced to silence. More broadly, we regret that our country does not have sufficient resources to prevent organ trafficking. As we say, the ratification of the Compostela Convention is in the right direction, but it is not enough. To give just one example, according to the statistics of the Biomedicine Agency, 300 patients leave the transplant waiting lists each year. They did not die, were not grafted and their condition did not worsen. So how do we interpret this output of statistics? During the review of the bioethics bill, I had tabled amendments to the effect that any transplant carried out abroad on a French citizen or resident should be entered in a national registry of transplant patients abroad, managed by the Agency for Biomedicine. These proposals remain a dead letter today, even though they are indispensable. Finally, let us make it clear that even if we were able to prevent our citizens from engaging in organ trafficking and transplant tourism, we could not guarantee the end of forced sampling, whether French and European citizens benefit from it or not. It is imperative that we avoid being complicit in practices that are contrary to our ethical model and human dignity. It is for this reason that this proposal for a law targets cooperation agreements in the scientific and medical fields. Our institutions, scientists and health professionals must not be involved, directly or indirectly, in practices contrary to the rules we set ourselves. We cannot be intransigent when practices take place in France and lax when they take place abroad. This is not about interference. The text provides for a framework for our cooperation agreements, whether we are free to conclude or not. But, at the moment, we have no way of verifying our partners' compliance with our ethical principles. International hospital co-operation is, by the very admission of the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care, insufficiently monitored and evaluated. Therefore, it is impossible to ensure that the transplant techniques taught in our co-operations will not then be diverted and used to carry out forced sampling. Do we have to accommodate this? In the absence of verification, the principles of certainty and precaution must apply, as it is a question of violating the dignity and lives of individuals. International awareness of human rights violations is slow, but it is at work. If we cannot avoid such acts, let us not be accomplices! [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mrs Annie Chapelier and Constance Le Grip also applaud]] With this bill by our colleague Frédérique Dumas, whom my group has the honour of defending today, it is a small stone that we wish to bring to this great and necessary building of awareness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u237	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u238	A few weeks ago, the National Assembly finally recognized the genocide of the Uighurs in China. Yet, as we were to consider today a second text by Frédérique Dumas, which would have forced France to take action to help the Uighur populations, it was withdrawn from the Assembly's agenda by President Richard Ferrand in order not to undermine France's participation in the Beijing Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u239	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u240	It is a shame and it shows the lack of real will on the part of this government and the majority to act effectively against these crimes. However, we will at least have the opportunity to rule on this bill, which I have co-signed. I thank Frédérique Dumas for depositing it. It aims to combat organ removals without free and informed consent, which of course constitute a serious violation of human dignity and the rights of the individual. We must act by joining Spain, Italy, Israel, Taiwan and many other countries that more severely punish those involved in these crimes and thus prevent French citizens from complicit in such atrocities. In the face of these crimes, we must prevent French public and private health institutions from becoming complicit in violations of fundamental rights and freedoms with regard to organ transplantation. French doctors, in fact, participate without knowing it by training Chinese doctors. Let us put an end to these complicitys in order to save the lives of men and women in countries where, for the leaders, human dignity does not matter. We must now become a model of action for our European colleagues and lead the European Union behind us. That is what this bill allows. Admittedly, long waiting times for organ donation are problematic. It is a major subject, but it must be dealt with differently than by trampling on the three main principles of dignity, solidarity and freedom that structure the French legal framework in the field of bioethics. To colleagues who wish to oppose the text, I would like to ask the following questions. Where's dignity when you force a poor man's heart to implant it to a rich man? Where is solidarity when we turn our backs on the oppressed peoples whose executioners we help? Where is freedom when one flouts the consent of the person to the removal of his organs? Yes, this text targets China as a state that organizes the commodification of human organs, massacres people and resells their organs! In conclusion, I call for swift action against these crimes and for rekindling the Enlightenment to defend fundamental rights and freedoms. Let's vote for this bill so that we can no longer silence these crimes! To paraphrase Medina in one of these songs, let us act to save Sara and the other "children of destiny", "Uighurs, Kazakhs, Tatars, Kyrgyz" from China and elsewhere!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u241	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u242	First of all, I wanted to thank the colleagues who supported this bill. I agree with them that it may have imperfections, and I had tabled an amendment designed to improve things at the end of the hearings. But since the choice of committee was the deletion of all the articles, we cannot even improve the text. I have noted that while the Secretary of State has acknowledged that France has major principles, as part of its international commitments, at the heart of our cooperation agreements, he added that controls are not possible and that assessments are complicated – I will provide you with evidence. This amounts to saying in conclusion: "As we cannot go and check, we continue as before. The Government criticizes the notion of boundless freedom when discussing the vaccination pass, but in this case it is a boundless freedom for organ removal, since we cannot go see what is happening. I really want to respond, for once in a political way, to the various arguments that have been opposed to me. This is a serious matter and I have made sure that the explanatory statement contains only observations, which are the result of a long-term work. For Jean François Mbaye, who told me that I was doing politics with this text, I say again that this is the only time I'm going to do it. The deletion amendments he has tabled lead me to recall some objective arguments. First of all, who makes politics on a subject as serious as the one we're talking about? It was China, through its ambassador to France, Lu Shaye, who textually said: "The French side is in full awareness of the absurdity and harmfulness of this resolution [on the genocide of the Uighurs]. He must show consistency between speech and act [the words spoken could therefore be different], and take concrete actions to safeguard the healthy development of Sino-French relations. With regard to concrete actions, it is done: Christophe Castaner admitted that recognizing the genocide perpetrated against the Uighurs was not to denounce a State or even point its finger at it; the President of the National Assembly withdrew from the agenda my motion for a resolution on the serious risk of genocide, which was to be discussed today in the context of the niche of the Libertés et territoires group, deliberately making a legal confusion between object and subject, and he received the day before yesterday – officially, of course – Ambassador Lu Shaye, who admits himself to belonging to the category of ambassadors under "the diplomacy of the combatant wolf" – it was necessary to make this additional gesture; the President of the Republic had justified his desire not to boycott the Olympic Games diplomatically by explaining that this was a measure "very small and symbolic", then decided, we learn, that the minister delegated to sports will still be present at some point during the Olympics to support our athletes... We are therefore moving from a very small measure to a very small one – we are not even able to do the same as Denmark or the Netherlands. Behind these fine statements, the majority not only rejected this week a text strongly calling on the French government to act to help the Uighurs, but also simply removed all the articles of this bill. Gabriel Attal said on 30 January, in Le Parisien, that in the face of the heavy ambiguity of the RN, LR and Zemmour vis-à-vis Russia, it had to be remembered that our country would not be able to dialogue straight in the eyes with Putin if it flattened in front of him. Today, what is obvious is France's heavy ambiguity vis-à-vis China, and it is we who are flattening before the Chinese regime. Today's date, Mr. Mbaye, will be memorable: I think the words you have made will remain in history with a great H. And if it is another political act, it is the summary statement of these deletion amendments that committed up to the Members of your group who co-signed my bill – reflecting this absurdity, you have removed their names. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR and SOC groups. – MM. Brahim Hammouche and Aurélien Taché also applaud]] I will now stop doing policy to get back to the facts during the discussion of the articles in order to demonstrate that if, as the Secretary of State has said, we absolutely cannot control the facts, this risks making our country indirectly complicit at worst through cooperation agreements with a State that has institutionalized the forced removal of organs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u243	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u244	In order to make things clear to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, as well as to the people who look at us or who will read us, let us make sure that we do not mix up all the subjects, that we do not amalgamate, and also, Mr Taché, that we do not speak somewhat tendentiously. There is of course no denial by the Government of the existence of organ trafficking or forced removals in certain countries – as you yourself have pointed out, Madam rapporteur. China has been extensively cited, even though your bill is supposed to be more general in scope. We share the same observation. And I affirm it loud and clear: that we do not begin to deviate in order to accuse the Government of ignoring this reality, of practicing denial, or even of being an accomplice. On the other hand, where we differ, Madam rapporteur, it is that you seem to underestimate the international framework, in this case the Compostela Convention, to strengthen the fight against this type of practice. It is in the process of being ratified, as your assembly passed the bill authorizing ratification on January 27 and is placed on the Senate Orders of the Day on February 15; It should therefore be implemented – without prejudging the vote of parliamentarians – before the end of this legislature. And as soon as it is ratified, the implementation of concrete and effective actions is entirely conceivable. By the way, Mr Coquerel, I remind you that concrete actions, and we all want them in this area, become abstract and theoretical if they are not effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u245	What does it mean, "effective"?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u246	I will come to this, Madam rapporteur, but I already note that the mechanisms you are proposing are not because they would be inoperative, whether they are mechanisms of control a priori or, more importantly, mechanisms of control a posteriori. As soon as the Compostela Convention is ratified, we can very well envisage taking concrete and effective action to raise awareness among French health institutions and all other actors in the sector so that strengthened ethical clauses, in addition to those already existing and the general principles enshrined in our legislation, are introduced into the 100 existing framework conventions, not only in the 20 in force with China. That is what we can do, and it will be a real concrete action. The existing legal framework allows, through framework conventions, more binding and therefore more effective measures than the mechanism that you propose in this bill. On the other hand, Mr Gomès, I would point out that the reservations made by France when signing the Compostela Convention are of a technical nature or linked to questions of competence. I would not like to suggest that they would empty it of its substance, because it is quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1147.u247	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the draft law to ensure the ethical respect of organ donation by our non-European partners; Discussion of the proposal for a law to provide France with the necessary instruments to combat plastic pollution; Discussion of the proposal for a law on combating financial exclusion and capping of bank charges; Discussion of the motion for a resolution, under Article 34(1) of the Constitution, calling on the Government to grant political asylum to Julian Assange and to facilitate access to refugee status for foreign whistleblowers; Discussion of the proposed constitutional law on the recognition of the white vote for the presidential election. The meeting is adjourned.
