ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a European resolution to include among the priorities of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union the adoption of ambitious legislation on the duty of vigilance of multinationals (No 4328, 4889, 4898).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u2	I call Mr Dominique Potier, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u3	I like to situate this fight for the duty of vigilance in the history of law, in the history of labour and in the history of our economy, and I would like to pay tribute to a great man from our country Terres de Lorraine, Henri Grégoire, Member of Parliament for the Constituent, who recalled in 1823 that he was responsible for the slave trade to the last of the sailors, not to mention the insurers, the charterers and all those who contributed to this shameful trafficking. I also pay tribute to Martin Nadaud, Member of Parliament for Creuse, who, in 1898, after ten years of legislative struggle, undertook, with the laws relating to accidents at work, a systemic reform leading to the creation of insurance funds, prevention, a technological revolution and, at the end, a cycle of prosperity for our economy, particularly for the forges and mines of the late nineteenth century. This law for the duty of vigilance is part of this long tradition of reforms aimed at humanizing our economy. The 2017 law on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies, which, after a long fight led by non-governmental associations, intellectuals, the academic world and all French and, today, European trade unions, removes the hypocritical, mortifying and unworthy legal veil that separates the originators, those who have economic power, their subcontractors and their subsidiaries. This text lifts the legal veil on the 150 million children under the age of 15 who, mainly in the agri-food sector, feed our economy and the low prices of globalization. It lifts the legal veil on the thousands of victims who, like those at Rana Plaza in Dhaka, Bangladesh, leave their lives or their health in accidents in this deadly industry. It lifts the veil on the tens of millions of hectares of land taken over by a financed economy to the detriment of the peasantry of the world, especially in the developing countries. It also lifts the veil on the millions of hectares of wildly and illegally deforested land in Amazonia and elsewhere, as in West Africa. This 2017 law is a real innovation. By its agility, it refers in fact to the responsibility of companies and their ability to invent solutions in the territories and within territorial co-operations. It is a 360° law: from corruption to the violation of human rights, to environmental risks, it defends all human rights in the modern and contemporary sense of the term. It is preventive: more than punishing, it aims to implement mechanisms and processes that, by means of a vigilance plan, prevent these serious violations of the environment and human rights. We are happy to say that this law is "pass-muraille" – not just "Chinese Wall Pass", if I may say by reference to the second European motion for a resolution that the Socialist and related group will defend today, aimed at the recognition of the genocide of the Uighurs, but in the sense that it frees itself from the limits of extraterritoriality, a rule of international law, in order to bring beyond our borders, without denying the latter, the universal principles that founded our Republic. Finally, it is a source of law because the solutions to the problems it reveals and highlights call for territorial solutions of sectors that invent charters, certifications and laws. It advances the rule of law and systemic solutions in the partner countries of our globalized economies. This law is therefore fully innovative. It is the subject of academic research, trade union interest and publications. Above all, it has mobilized the energy of our European neighbours. It has been contagious – it is the right aspect of globalization. Our German neighbours, our brothers in the construction of Europe, adopted this law last summer and seven other countries followed suit. Today, in a total of ten European countries, if we count the debates that are taking place in civil society, there is a movement in favour of this law, in Europe and, as I said, beyond. I would like to reiterate to the CCFD, the Catholic Committee against Hunger and Development, the Sherpa Association, Friends of the Earth, Amnesty International, ActionAid and all the others that it was they, their activists, their advocacy and their perseverance that made this law work. It is also all European trade unions – and I pay particular tribute to the President of the European Trade Union Confederation, Laurent Berger, and to the work undertaken by his Vice-President, Isabelle Schömann – who, in the name of a universal fraternity of the world of work, is leading this fight in Europe. Finally, by quoting here only one name, that of Antoine Lyon-Caen, I want to say the contribution of the academic world, of the world of jurists, to the construction of these innovative solutions. The genesis of this law stems from a powerful democratic movement: that of the alliance of the world of research and foresight, of the world of civil society and of a Parliament that plays its full role, that is, its ability to produce solutions for the contemporary world. The time has come to bring this law to the European level, through the contagion effect of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), the trade union movement and the intellectual movement, as well as by the nation states that have followed the French school. The time has come to make it a European fight. This is what the European Parliament did in April 2021 with a very important debate, which brought together, in a very large political arc, a very large majority of almost 80% of the votes in favour of the report proposed to it. It is also a first report by the Commission, in particular on the Justice Commissioner, issued in July 2020. This European process has suffered a little, because we have been waiting for nine months, a little like Godot, for a draft European directive, but Thierry Breton has announced his arrival in mid-February, that is, in a few weeks' time. So today, with this European motion for a resolution, we are at the heart of the timing of the European agenda. Yesterday in Strasbourg, in response to a question from the MEP Raphaël Glucksmann, the President of the Republic said that France would fight to defend a directive comparable to French law. It's all in the details. We hope that, this autumn, the 124 Members who tabled this European motion for a resolution which brings us together today, that "comparable" means "allowing victims access to rights and allowing vigilance plans to be drawn up in connection with all the stakeholders, including the constituent parts of companies' employees". We hope that "comparable" means that no administrative authority, however useful, can substitute for recourse to justice for complainants, here and elsewhere. It would therefore be a matter of combining the genius of French law, which takes into account the depth of the field of subcontracting thanks to the principle of commercial link that we established in the law of March 2017, with German innovation, which extends the principles of French law to all enterprises, ETI (middle-sized enterprises) and SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), with a timetable and a novation that we welcome. It is in the precise construction of this European directive that we call on France, through the voice of the Government and the President of the Republic, to commit itself fully, in the framework of its Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to prepare minds, convince the most recalcitrant, avoid the low maneuvers and allow that triumph in Europe this scale of law. This relevant scale in Europe. The evaluation work that we are currently undertaking, together with our colleague Coralie Dubost, to evaluate French law – it was time – has enabled us to measure how much, for aluminium in Guinea, cocoa in Côte d'Ivoire or textiles in Bangladesh, it is the European scale that allows European order-holders to weigh on suppliers that are sometimes dominant in the markets. We must therefore move from the innovative French scale, rooted in our companies, to a European scale that inaugurates a systemic reform of capitalism on a global scale. Mr. Delegate Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness, you yourself, Élisabeth Borne and Adrien Taquet launched Alliance 8.7 against child labour and all announced, in this commitment, that the duty of vigilance was the primary weapon of this struggle. In discussing this proposal for a European resolution today, I welcome the chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, but also Mireille Clapot and Jean-Paul Lecoq, who, along with us, were the facilitators of this European resolution that we have built with 124 of our colleagues. Today we are contributing to popular sovereignty, but, as Mireille Delmas-Marty says, and that is very important, this popular sovereignty only makes sense if it is in solidarity and can no longer, in the contemporary world, be solitary. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups. – Mr. Jean-Marie Sermier also applauds]] Colleagues, by adopting this debate proposed by the Socialist and Related Group – and I thank its President, Valérie Rabault, who has allowed it to be placed on the agenda, as well as all our colleagues in the social democratic tradition who have defended this project – we subscribe to the idea of a European public power based on ethics, a sovereignty not solitary but, I have just said, solidarity, and we remember our origins and our political commitment. The life of a young worker, at the end of the street as well as at the end of the world, is worth more than all the gold in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u4	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u5	Mr President, as you recall with your European motion for a resolution on the adoption of ambitious legislation on the duty of vigilance of multinationals, France is a pioneer in this area. This is the acquis of the law of 27 March 2017, which was your initiative, and I congratulate you, dear Dominique Potier, on all the work you did at the time and which you have continued to carry out since then. This law of 2017 paved the way for a new form of regulation of the activities of multinational companies and their subsidiaries, as well as their subcontractors and suppliers. The adoption of such ambitious legislation was a first, not only in Europe, but throughout the world. It aims to ensure that social and environmental rights are respected across all value chains. As the President of the Republic reminded the European Parliament yesterday, the Government fully subscribes to the will you expressed in this resolution to empower multinationals. Our objective is clear: to effectively prevent serious violations of human rights and the environment. We have been defending this ambition at European level for the last five years and we are determined to bring it up and up in the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, because it is not enough to be exemplary in France: we must also ensure that all those with whom we exchange and all the stakeholders in our value chains respect our values and our common goods. It is not only about respecting the values we are defending, but also about fair and fair competition for our businesses. This requirement of coherence between our international trade and our commitment to sustainable development is at the heart of the trade policy priorities we are defending, particularly in the context of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Our trade policy must, of course, remain open. It must also become firmer, less naive, to better defend our interests. We must also work to make it more sustainable, more responsible, in the continuity of the CETA Action Plan – Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement – adopted by France and the Green Pact for Europe. That is the meaning of our commitment to ensure, for example, that the Paris Agreement is an essential clause in the European Union's trade agreements. It is also in this sense that we support the establishment of a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders, in order to combat carbon leakage. Finally, we would like to see the adoption of an instrument to combat imported deforestation. Among our priorities, France wishes to take forward the legislative initiative on the duty of vigilance which the Commission must present in the coming weeks, in order to put in place a genuine European framework. You can count on the Government, on my own, on Olivia Grégoire, and on all those who, in each sector, will be affected by this priority. The future European directive on sustainable corporate governance must, in fact, establish a harmonised approach to the duty of vigilance at European level. It should include provisions of reasonable vigilance in environmental matters, but also in relation to human and workers' rights, in particular on the issue of forced labour, which we believe is essential. While France recently became a pioneer country of Alliance 8.7, you recalled this – the global partnership against child labour, forced labour, trafficking in human beings and contemporary slavery – it is time to redouble its efforts. In particular, we support the implementation at European level of a ban on the placing on the internal market of products derived from forced labour, whether within the framework of the legislation on the duty of vigilance, and I stress this point, or in an ad hoc manner. In fact, the President of the European Commission announced this last September, and we must now move forward and put this tool into practice. As I said at the beginning of my speech, France has already taught in Europe about the duty of vigilance of multinationals, and our legislation has inspired similar initiatives in Germany, the Netherlands, Austria, Finland, Belgium and Luxembourg – we can be proud of that. In fact, Europe – and it is sometimes criticized – is the only economic and political space in the world that puts human values ahead of economic interests. In this spirit, we believe that our trade policy is a real lever for sustainable development. In other words, we believe that our commercial power allows the promotion and observance of high social and environmental standards. We are demanding with our own companies, so it is natural that we should also be so with our trading partners. This demand, which is sometimes criticized, responds to a strong demand from civil society and to the commitment of a whole part of it, which is very much mobilized on these issues. You have talked about NGOs, trade unions, intellectuals and many other civil actors who want to make these issues a European issue and who formulate a perfectly legitimate expectation of coherence between our objectives and our actions. This requirement is also an imperative in itself, because it is simply about the future of our common goods: prosperity, the environment, social rights and human rights. The challenge of harmonising legislation in Europe is real. Yesterday, France was a pioneer in Europe, today it is up to Europe to be a pioneer in the world. It has the capacity and the opportunity, and the French Presidency will do everything in its power to move forward in this direction. You will not have escaped the fact that the European Parliament, in the resolution you mentioned, has also encouraged the Commission to present binding legislation on multinationals as soon as possible with regard to due diligence. France, Germany, the Netherlands and many European partners share this objective. Of course, our presidency of the European Union gives us important responsibilities in coordinating European work to move towards consensus and to move the issues forward. That is why I believe it is important to remind national representation of the following points. At this stage, the objectives and parameters of the future regulation have not yet been discussed between the Member States in the Council, especially since the Commission has not yet presented its proposal; She should do it next month. While we are in the presidency, we will have to focus on listening to the views of the various Member States in order to move this project forward and find a balance between the concerns expressed, while supporting the ambition we share. That is why I do not want to prejudge before you the details of the future European legislation that we must build,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u6	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u7	...for example, on the process of developing vigilance measures, a subject on which I observe that the motion for a resolution goes beyond the requirements of the 2017 law. But I have taken note, and I will of course listen carefully to the representatives of the groups on the points that you think are very sensitive to be taken into account in future legislation. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups – Jean-Marie Sermier also applauds]] We are defending an ambitious approach by the European Union on this crucial issue. The priority is clearly given to quick results, as the President of the Republic recalled yesterday. The Government therefore shares the ambition of your motion for a resolution and is in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u8	In the general debate, Mrs Cécile Untermaier spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u9	The last French Presidency of the European Union in 2008, it is essential in 2022, at such a privileged moment, to defend ambitions for Europe. The President of the Republic spoke in line with this motion for a resolution and referred to the construction of responsible capitalism. We thank you, Minister Delegate, for the comments you have just made. This objective, which we are aiming at with NGOs, trade unions and universities, is also that of the United Nations, which, in its guiding principles on business and human rights, incorporates the concept of business due diligence. The control and redress by companies of serious violations of human rights, health, personal safety and the environment are what the legislator has been pursuing in recent years, involving various actors in its reflection. A true ethical and accountability culture of large companies must develop. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution and of the law that we have supported. These ethical requirements, we find them in other texts, in particular the one examined at the moment on the protection of whistleblowers – isn't that right, Mr President? – as the latter are obviously stakeholders in the vigilance we are seeking. The European motion for a resolution presented by our colleague Dominique Potier is part of this approach of ethics that must guide all our actions. We have done a great deal of work in recent years, in particular – we must finally acknowledge this – during the previous quinquennium. It is underground work that has been done and I would like to thank our colleague for this action. The adoption of the law of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent and donor companies paves the way for a new form of regulation of the activities of multinational companies, their subsidiaries, as well as their subcontractors and suppliers. France, a pioneer in this field, has thus initiated a rights-generating process among its European neighbours. The joint work of the European Parliament and the European Commission calls for the adoption of a directive. This is the time to speed up its implementation and therefore to take this motion for a resolution into account. Vigilance built into duty will have one virtue: that of a broader responsibility. The company's responsibility can no longer be defined solely by its legal personality: account must be taken of its channels and suppliers. It is a whole value chain involving the identification and prevention of risks that needs to be implemented within parent and donor companies. It is also the virtue of an ethic that contributes to strengthening the European Union's external action for human rights, in particular for workers in emerging economies and, of course, the environment. Finally, this will that none of our actions harms the dignity of the human person and the environment must accompany our reforms and be part of our social policy, obviously, but also, as well, of our environmental policy, because of the collapse of biodiversity and the destruction of ecosystems resulting from the satisfaction of our consumption needs. Vigilance requires reparation and the adoption of a judicial arsenal to facilitate it. The attribution to the judicial court in Paris rather than to the commercial court of the treatment of appeals of companies that failed to comply with their duty of vigilance was one of our requests, satisfied by the law for confidence in the judicial institution; We thank the keeper of the seals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u10	Let's also thank Dominique Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u11	[[Applause on the SOC benches and on some of the GDR benches. – Mr. Jean-Marie Sermier also applauds]] But because one never really repairs, vigilance imposes even more risk prevention tools. That was the meaning of the environmental references proposed by our group in the framework of the climate and resilience bill and allowing to equip France and – why not? – the Europe of effective legal tools to avoid the commission of acts which are highly harmful to the environment and to the inhabitants of the planet. This motion for a resolution, by its demand, opens the way for action – because it requires action – and hope – because it requires hope – for a controlled future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u12	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u13	It is a beautiful fight that we are fighting here, which is part of a very long tradition of fighting for the improvement of dignity at work. I can't help but have a thought this morning – and I beg you to excuse me for this personal apartment – for my grandmother who was a textile worker and who told me that at the age of 13 she was on her way from her native village to Tourcoing. I am not saying that she was working in unworthy conditions, that she was being exploited; his condition was that of work in the textile sector at the beginning of the 20th century. We all remember these images, and no doubt that in our families people have experienced situations at work that are not entirely the ones we are experiencing today, which shows that labour law is constantly improving. The second parallel that I will make is the history that we live in, the pandemic against which we struggle by having totally reversed the scale of values of the capitalist world. We have indeed wanted to place the human person, not only at the heart of our actions, but also at the head of our priorities. We put the economy back where it was supposed to be. This does not mean that we have not supported, quite the contrary, the entire economic sector, but it is first and foremost the man we have protected. We can challenge or approve the measures that have been taken – history will no doubt judge – but, in any case, it is a rather positive sign, in the economic system in which we have been immersed for a few centuries, that we have managed to put people at the heart of our concerns and of the value chain. Everyone remembers these terrible images of the Rana Plaza, which made us realize that things could no longer remain in the state and that, as you quite rightly said, Mr rapporteur, the fight that we have waged and that we must continue at the end of our street, in our neighbourhood, we must also lead it to the end of the planet, because globalization means that the shirt I buy, the pants I am probably and unfortunately coming from a very far distance, even if the textile sector is trying to restore its health, and that they may not have been produced in conditions that fully respect labour law as we know it here. It is therefore important to include in French law this duty of vigilance, a very important sign of progress. We can welcome the words of the delegate minister who earlier committed himself to fighting at European level, because the whole objective of this duty of vigilance is to be able to share it with the largest number of European countries in order to have weight. Europe is a scale of balance in the world and, by committing itself to this, it will be able to lead the world a little more in strengthening the application of the duty of vigilance. Many communes in our territories are committed to this duty of vigilance. I'm thinking of the "child-friendly city" network. It is not just a concept: it allows the children of the communes to be made aware of this great global cause. I can only say in favour of its extension, of its spread so that our children can understand, from an early age, that if they live in perfectly suitable conditions, the fruit of a long struggle, on the other side of the planet other children, other men and women do not benefit at all from such beautiful and exemplary working conditions. The constraints and obstacles to be overcome will be numerous, as we know. But we rely heavily on the French Presidency of the European Council to advance this concept. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Yolaine de Courson and Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel also applaud]] Despite the constraints, despite the difficulties, the Group of the European People's Party wants to adopt only one philosophy, which guides its action. "Pessimism is in the mood; optimism is of will", according to Alain's famous thought. We want to retain only the optimistic side: of course, we will have to cross many hedges, but our goodwill to all – because I hope that the National Assembly will vote unanimously on this motion for a resolution – will allow us to set a course and, thanks to the Government's will in turn, we will be able to achieve our objectives. I thank the rapporteur and all those who have defended this motion for a resolution, which we will support.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u14	Mrs Nicole Sanquer has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u15	There are subjects on which France has been able to be a forerunner at European level by imposing early provisions which would, years later, lead to consensus. You can be glad, Mr rapporteur, that you are one of those who has been able to defend measures ahead of their time. I would like to welcome your commitment and to say that the IDU and independent group welcomes the fact that the duty of vigilance is progressing at Community level. Indeed, five years ago, at the end of the debate on the French system that you defended, the UDI Members expressed their fear that unfair competition would arise from the introduction of such control on a national level alone. No such competition has taken place, no doubt thanks to the action of other European States, and perhaps also to the censorship of part of the text by the Constitutional Council, which has reduced its scope. However, I would like to take this opportunity to repeat that France should not take the wrong habit of acting alone when debates are taking place at European level. The French have little knowledge of the progress that the European Union is making, and because of this: we tend not to highlight the work that is being done in Brussels and Strasbourg. However, the issue of the right of vigilance at European level would require greater media coverage to highlight what is happening. For several years now, we have been waiting for a proposal from the European Commission on this subject. However, on several occasions last year, the Commission rejected the draft directive without explaining why. The European Parliament, for its part, adopted in March last year, in order to present its expectations, a resolution in which we can look forward to regaining a strong ambition for transparency and sectoral cooperation, the desire for an effective remedy before the courts and the need to link our trade policy to this duty of vigilance. This strong commitment by our fellow MEPs once again demonstrates that they are in a position to prepare innovative projects and that they should have the right of legislative initiative, especially when the Commission does not dare to act in the face of pressure from influential actors. I come to the substance of this proposal. In recent years, we have made considerable progress in revealing what lies behind the origin of the products we buy. While every citizen must monitor what he or she buys, our role as legislator is to ensure that there is full transparency on the origin and conditions of manufacture of the products so that everyone makes the most virtuous choices possible. Moreover, for fear of losing their customers, some brands have already stopped this race at the margin which prompted them to exclude environmental and social requirements from their mode of production. Beyond simply responding to consumer expectations, the European Union must seize this opportunity to finally become a major geopolitical player. Whether it is human rights, the protection of minorities or the environment, Europe must be able to influence on the international stage in order to defend our universal values. This very active role must manifest itself in our trade policy, like the clause requiring compliance with the conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) which we wanted to impose on the Chinese, before the agreement was blocked. But we need to go even further. As Europe embarks on a race against time to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050, we must incorporate safeguard measures into our trade agreements that will, for example, allow us to question all or part of an agreement with a partner that would not meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Similarly, these agreements should contain mirror clauses requiring our partners to have at least as high an ambition as ours to protect the environment and human rights. You will have understood this, Mr rapporteur: the IDU and independent Group will support this motion for a resolution and we hope that the European Union will soon publish a legislative proposal on this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u17	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u18	Several thousand workers died on the site of the World Cup in Qatar, where twelve European multinationals operate. According to a report by the Australian Strategic Policy Institute of March 2020, eighty-two multinationals, such as Nike or Zara, benefit from forced labour by the Uighurs, thus indirectly contributing to the exploitation of this ethnic minority. And according to a study in April 2021, the European Union would be the second responsible for the destruction of tropical forests as a result of imported deforestation. These and many other findings highlight the failure of multinationals, including European and French, to respect human and environmental rights. Multinationals often rely on their subsidiaries, their subcontractors and their suppliers to clear their legal and moral responsibility – and ethically, I will add. Yet it is these societies that are responsible for order and, indirectly, for child labour, mass pollution and any other serious violation of human rights and the environment. [[Applause on many benches]] With the law of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies, we took an important first step to combat the impunity enjoyed by these companies. I welcome the tireless work of our colleague Dominique Potier, a true awakener of conscience, as well as that of NGOs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u19	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u20	This law is the result of a long work carried out under the previous legislature echoing, among other things, the collapse in April 2013 of the Rana Plaza building in Bangladesh, which caused the death of more than 1100 workers employed by subcontractors of major world brands of the textile industry. While it is regrettable that the law has been amputated from its sanctions component by a decision of the Constitutional Council, it nevertheless establishes a major legal principle: the accountability of companies with more than 5000 employees for environmental protection and respect for human rights. However, as several NGOs point out, this law is insufficiently enforced since 17% of the companies concerned did not publish a vigilance plan in 2021. Nevertheless, it has allowed some of them to be brought to justice: the Casino Group, for deforestation and the grabbing of indigenous land in the Amazon for the production of beef; EDF, for the construction of a wind project without the consent of the inhabitants; or Total, for a drilling project in Uganda that has a negative impact on climate change and the right of people to cultivate their land. Judicial proceedings are still under way, some of which have been in progress for more than two years. However, the still imprecise scope of the text makes it difficult to use it in many cases and several complaints have not been able to reach the basis of the law. For example, the Association des Ouighours de France filed a complaint before our courts against Nike, for "complicity of forced labour and deceptive commercial practices": 7 million pairs of shoes of this brand were allegedly made by Uighurs forced into forced labour. Of course, it is always preferable that the conviction be pronounced in the country where the acts are committed, in the interests of the victims themselves, and no doubt in our legal order there is a lack of universal jurisdiction, as Germany possesses,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u22	...to condemn crimes against humanity, wherever they are committed in the world. Will the Uighurs ever complain in a country that recognizes the principle of universal justice to have a French company responsible for forced labour condemned?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u23	We have to change the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u24	Clearly, as in the case of corporate social responsibility, it is necessary to ensure that these obligations are implemented effectively and that their non-compliance is effectively sanctioned. It is not enough to simply produce long reports in companies' social accounts, without real change on the ground. With regard to this issue, it is essential to act at the highest level, that is, at European level, but also at the level of the United Nations – which already acts on key issues affecting human rights; It should also take full account of the duty of vigilance of multinational companies, since working conditions are treated as acts of exploitation of the poorest populations. As for multinationals which impose a high duty of vigilance, they must not be subjected to unfair competition from companies which are free from it. I conclude by widening the debate: the implementation of ambitious protectionism at European level, through the creation of tariff barriers on imports of products with adverse social and environmental consequences, would translate into deeds declarations which too often remain in the state of good intentions. Such measures would also help to better protect our national channels and reduce unfair competition. [[Applause on numerous SOC benches and on a few benches in the Dem group]] As you have understood, the Freedom and Territories Group fully supports this European motion for a resolution and will vote with determination.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u25	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u26	The 13th French Presidency of the Council of the European Union since 1959 will be exceptionally short since it will end de facto after the European Council of 24 and 25 March 2022, because of the necessary reserve period to be respected before the French presidential election. The useful period will be three months, which leaves little time...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u27	This has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u28	... to find compromises on many subjects and to bring the negotiations on the legislative initiatives under way to a successful conclusion. This short period must therefore be useful and used in order to adopt the Directive on the duty of vigilance of undertakings. On the agenda of the meeting of the European Commission on 8 December, it finally disappeared and was postponed to February, it is said. This would have led to a victory for employers' lobbying, according to some European observers and trade unions who denounce the manoeuvring of companies clearly trying to block the European directive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u30	In addition, there are more insidious manoeuvres by groups who claim to support binding legislation on the duty of vigilance but who, in fact, are trying to weaken regulation. France was a forerunner in this area, at the initiative of the Socialists, with the adoption of the Potier law of 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies. Since then, several large companies have been prosecuted or sanctioned. Thus, in 2021, the Lafarge company was punished for complicity in crimes against humanity after financing terrorist groups in Syria to maintain the activity of one of its cement plants. Five large companies are currently being brought before the French courts for failure to comply with the duty of vigilance, including Total, who was brought before the Nanterre High Court for the Tilenga project in Uganda. It is well known that the very existence of legislation and the resulting risk of sanctions and negative publicity is a very effective means of action. This is demonstrated by a study conducted for the European Commission in 2020, according to which the reasons that drive – or would push – companies to exercise due diligence in human rights in their supply chains are as follows: the preservation of their reputation and the desire to meet the high demands of investors and consumers on respect for human rights. According to the same study, companies consider that the establishment of a European legal framework would have positive repercussions through the establishment of a clear and defined legal framework and the establishment of an intangible standard in negotiations with third-party companies. Similarly, more and more States are seeking such regulation. French legislation has swarmed all over Europe, from the Netherlands to Finland, Italy, Norway and Germany. But if the objectives are shared, the rules are not uniform, which has the effect of allowing different or even divergent rules to proliferate within the European area. On the basis of French law, in March 2021 the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the European Commission to present a draft directive on the duty of corporate vigilance. The aim is to force companies to ensure that their value chains are clean, under penalty of criminal sanctions for serious violations of social and environmental rights. But the text of the European Parliament goes further than the French law, whether it concerns the undertakings and the activities concerned, the scope of application of the duty of vigilance and the monitoring of its compliance. It also provides for a consolidated punitive regime. [[Applause on several benches of the SOC group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] Everything is ready; the investigations have been carried out, the European Parliament is waiting. All that remains is to put on the Commission's agenda this draft directive which neither the workers of the world nor the citizens can wait any longer. The vote on our resolution calling on the President of the Republic to act during his presidency of the Council of the Union is therefore imperative and, on this subject, he must act as soon as he takes office. This is about the urgent fight against modern slavery and ecocides, because that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u31	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u32	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u33	[[Smile]] I am very pleased this morning to finally be able to debate this issue in our Chamber. Since 2012, our dear comrade Potier, encouraged by many associations and non-governmental organizations, has defended the idea that multinationals should be responsible for the actions of their entire subcontracting chain at all costs. Its tenacity and that of civil society paid off: the law on the duty of vigilance was passed in the last days of the previous legislature. On the basis of this success, Dominique Potier pushed to keep this law alive as early as 2017, in particular by making it known to the newly elected MPs of whom I was. He then created with Mireille Clapot and myself an informal parliamentary circle of debates and meetings on this topic. In this context, we have interviewed many civil society organisations as well as victims of situations caused by multinational subcontractors. This has concluded to convince us of the usefulness of this law. Since this law is in force at national level, we must now act at European level, Minister Delegate. We hope that this motion for a resolution will make it possible to ensure that the French Presidency of the European Union is useful, at least on this subject, and that it contributes to the adoption of similar legislation by the European Commission. We also hope that this will speed up the process of recognizing a global duty of vigilance, within the framework of the United Nations Intergovernmental Working Group on Transnational Corporations and Other Business and Human Rights, which aims at developing a legally binding international instrument. It should be noted here that Dominique Potier also went to Geneva to try to move things forward. This reform must move us towards a globalization that we would call less bad. The Communist deputies constantly denounce the brutal system of capitalism which has made money the only universal and unsurpassable value. Its principle being that the end justifies the means, it generates in itself the exploitation of individuals and the environment. We have supported the law on the duty of vigilance from the beginning of its legislative process in 2012 and we will of course vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Even if we remain pessimistic about the possibility of a reform of globalization and a fortiori of capitalism, we respect Dominique Potier's approach. Why? Because sometimes this small step policy works. If this law prevents even one subcontractor from dumping dangerous products into nature or employing children, then it will already be a victory. At a time when we are seriously beginning to think that the 21st century is, at worst, like the 20th century, we must try to advance in this storm and defend the human and the planet, at all costs. At a time when the balance of power is so unfavourable to workers and nature in view of the astronomical profits and disproportionate powers accumulated by the world's largest companies, an important responsibility lies with us: to support the extension of the law on the duty of vigilance to Europe and to make it a constraint at international level tomorrow. However, we are neither blind nor naive: we know that the largest companies are carrying out a very intense lobbying activity in Brussels. Knowing only too well the subservience of the President of the Republic to the powerful and his obsession with economic liberalism, we fear, of course, that he will do everything to soften this law. This enormous work carried out by Dominique Potier and so many associations and NGOs must not be tarnished by small calculations favourable to the powerful at European level, in the comfort of the Brussels alcoves. If we fear it, we've been used to it for five years and we don't see how it could change. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group and on the benches of the SOC group]] We will therefore, of course, vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, hoping that the hard work of civil society in defending this cause will hinder the will of large companies to see this law put in a closet – an ultimate proof, moreover, that it disturbs and that it is of fundamental value in building a globalisation that we will call less worse.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u34	Mrs Mireille Clapot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u35	When you buy an electronic device, a food product or a garment, you do not know whether the value chain of the company that sells it to you is not tainted by serious human rights violations – forced labour, child labour, non-compliance with trade union rights, poor working conditions like at Rana Plaza, which collapsed in 2013 in Bangladesh – or environmental damage – air, water or soil pollution. The producing company, for its part, which outsources part of its manufacture or outsources the extraction of raw materials, cannot wash its hands. It has a responsibility to take note of these risks and to prevent them. This is called the duty of vigilance. What is at stake in this European motion for a resolution is the desire to have a strong political voice in order to obtain a directive at European level on the duty of corporate vigilance. I would like to pay tribute to Dominique Potier for his work and for the vote on his pioneering law of March 2017, which obliges companies with more than 5000 employees to prevent these risks in their value chain, to publish a report and to allow victims to make requests for reparations. Almost five years later, at the end of this parliamentary term and at the beginning of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we see a welcome consensus – as the various speakers have shown – and a strong political speech on this subject, at the highest level of the French State and of the European Union. The concept of duty of vigilance has gradually spread among the Member States. In 2019, the Dutch parliament legislated on child labour and, in June 2021, the German parliament passed legislation that is binding on companies with more than 3000 employees. Discussions were also held in several other countries. At European level, civil society and, in general, citizens are taking on this issue. About 100 NGOs have asked the European Commission to act in this direction and the European Trade Union Confederation has mobilized. Even French and German companies realize that it is in their interest to see a directive put into practice that would apply to their competitors operating in the internal market. The European Parliament played a key role in adopting a resolution last March calling on the Commission to draw up an ambitious text on this subject and even submitted its own draft directive. The Commission has undertaken since April 2020 to adopt a directive on the duty of vigilance, but unfortunately several postponements have taken place. The last selected date being spring 2022, we will not have a text until 2023 in the best case. Today, 20 January 2022, this process joins the ambitions of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which will make the duty of vigilance one of its priorities, as stated by the President of the Republic at his press conference of 9 December 2021. In essence, it is a matter of defending a certain vision of Europe that would carry a singular voice in the world economy, that of power guided by values based on human rights and environmental protection, which would be "not for sale at any price" in the strong words of President Ursula von der Leyen in her speech on the state of the European Union last September. The fact-finding mission of which we were co-rapporteurs, Dominique Potier and I, explored a somewhat wider field and gave rise to ten proposals which put forward alternative criteria and more ambitious thresholds and reaffirmed the need to take the value chain into account in its entirety. We have asked ourselves another important question during our work: beyond the publication of reports, how can we ensure the implementation of the duty of vigilance? Two schools exist: one promotes the civil liability of companies, it is the French approach which is based solely on the judicial path; The other is the establishment of an administrative authority to accompany and, if necessary, punish, an option chosen by the Netherlands and Germany, which has been criticized by some NGOs. We say yes to a public policy that supports the duty of vigilance, with complementary and non-competitive administrative supervision of the judicial route that accompanies businesses and prevents violations. And, of course, we affirm the need to ensure uniform application in the Member States. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the reflection has matured: this proposal for a European resolution is timely in order to affirm the commitment of the French national representation and to support the European agenda which is proactive in terms of the duty of European vigilance. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups and on the SOC benches]] On behalf of the Republic on the move, I therefore invite you to adopt this motion for a resolution, a strong political act, which underpins our demands and ambitions to live up to the expectations of our citizens, businesses and to assert more responsible and ethical European business rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u36	Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u37	The duty of vigilance is at the heart of parliamentary activity. The mandate given to us by the nation is precisely that: to remain vigilant. I would like to thank our colleagues Mireille Clapot and Dominique Potier for their work and would like to announce now that the Group of the European Democratic Movement and Related Democrats will vote in favour of the adoption of this European motion for a resolution. It seems to us to correspond to what any European motion for a resolution should be: it is not a national debate that we wish to make up in a European debate, but rather a debate that France must conduct at European level. Let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen, which says the European market called European rules. What applies to binding law must also apply to the rules of flexible law, including all the rules relating to the duty of vigilance. Europe is an area for prosperity, but it can only be common. This idea carries in itself a set of values that irrigate our common cultural base, in particular human rights and the principle of equal dignity for all. The affirmation of a duty of vigilance in economic space may be one of its vectors. Now is the time to devote such a duty at European level. The political context within the Union seems to be favourable. The European Parliament adopted a resolution in favour of a duty of European vigilance by a large majority on 10 March, calling on the European Commission to propose an ambitious text. Then let's go! The duty of vigilance of multinationals and even, for such strong reasons, of companies in general is a requirement. The European Union must be the institutional level at which this requirement arises so that it applies to the largest number of companies in our common market. The aim is to encourage economic actors around the world to adopt such rules so that the duty of vigilance becomes a prerequisite of the business world at the international level. For this reason, Europe must speak with one voice. That is why the establishment of such a duty of vigilance is so interesting. Multinationals are already making efforts in the area of social and environmental responsibility that go beyond mere compliance with the legal rules of compliance, but it is a matter of disseminating a way of doing business with more virtuous behaviour and this motion for a resolution is a first step in this direction. That this approach is relayed at European level will only give it more weight. You will agree that we Members will have to remain vigilant ourselves: we will have to observe the development of this motion for a resolution like that of the resolution adopted by the European Parliament in order to bring their objectives together. In particular, we will have to focus on targeting, in addition to transnational enterprises, enterprises active on the territory of the Union and on national territory as well as on the territory of partner third countries. It is important to bear in mind that SMEs alone cannot, on their own, guarantee the vigilance we demand, given their size and their weight or influence in the value chain, because it is the value chain in its entirety that is to reason. The European Parliament called on "the Commission to propose a negotiating mandate for the Union, so that it can start constructive negotiations on a UN legally binding international instrument to regulate, in international human rights law, the activities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises" but we also need to initiate reforms at European regional level, and to make progress or improvements at this level. That is the meaning of this motion for a resolution. The European Union must be at the forefront in this area. It is about its social and economic prosperity, its exemplary governance and its leadership in the world. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group. – Mrs Cécile Untermaier also applauds]] Establishing the first steps in a system of reparations for human rights affected by business activity, involving citizens and workers in the preparation of assessments, giving an interest in taking action to ensure respect for human rights and avoiding breaches of the duty of vigilance are the three cornerstones of this work that I congratulate us to undertake.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u38	On the single article of this European motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the working Republic and Socialist and related groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u39	Thank you to the rapporteur Dominique Potier and to the NGOs that have been fighting for this cause for years. The Group of the European People's Party will, of course, vote in favour of the text, because multinationals have it in particular that they are ruining our lives. When the Lafarge group does not pour concrete into the Seine, it pacts with Daech. When it is not Total, whose activities lead us to a 3.5°C rise in temperatures in 2050, it is Amazon that destroys small businesses, artificializes the soil, mistreats its employees and emits carbon to finish. When Nestlé does not pump the water table in Vittel, to the detriment of the inhabitants and ecosystems, to produce bottles of water for export, it is Danone who does the same in Volvic. All this with Emmanuel Macron's complicity, far less attentive to our lives than to the profits of these societies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u40	Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u41	What can be expected of him about their duty of vigilance? Not much. While this duty requires companies to prevent environmental harm, President Macron – do you mind, Deputy Minister – reintroduces bee killers such as neonicotinoid pesticides, unfolds the red carpet in Amazon and refuses to ban glyphosate. As always, there is Emmanuel Macron and Macron Emmanuel. One requires the European Union "quality, skilled and better paid jobs", as well as more rights for workers on digital platforms; the other liberalizes the labour code, destroys national education and higher education, and does not bother that bikers do not have any social protection in the event of an accident at work. We therefore do not trust, and we do not expect much, I repeat, from a candidate President who beckons us with good words by repeating that the establishment of a duty of European vigilance is one of his priorities. That said, Mr rapporteur, it is important not to give up on the following points: the entire supply chain of a multinational must be covered and controlled, all human rights taken into account, and an ambitious system of sanctions, above all a deterrent, instituted at both European and national level. In particular, it is necessary to prohibit the import of what is not produced in accordance with human rights and to suspend State aid to the guilty undertakings; Finally, there is a need to be extremely vigilant with regard to victims' access to justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u43	This is an aspect that I wish to deepen with you: without real access to justice, the duty of vigilance does not work. As proof of this, the EDF wind farm project in the indigenous lands of the state of Oaxaca, Mexico: the complainants, indigenous people of the Zapotec community, have the greatest difficulty in being heard, while the company's involvement in the escalation of violence within their community and its clear desire not to carry out a prior, free and informed consultation have been demonstrated. It is therefore established that EDF, and by extension the French State, failed to comply with the duty of vigilance. The judicial court in Paris has just found itself competent, which was far from obvious, as EDF's lawyers pressured the case to be brought before the commercial court. A written question has been put on this subject: we are still waiting for the answer of the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, undoubtedly busy writing an umpteenth book on his life, his work and how he intends to pour more and more public aid without compensation on companies. [[Applause on some of the SOC and GDR benches]] The European motion for a resolution provides us with the opportunity to recall that multinationals cannot regulate themselves spontaneously. States and international organizations must supervise and compel them in order to guarantee respect for fundamental rights throughout the world. From a broader perspective, we could break out of their claws common goods by prohibiting their commodification – I am of course thinking of the most vital resource that exists, that is to say, water – by creating ecological and solidarity protectionism, planning for the bifurcation of our economic model, re-establishing popular sovereignty over our future. However, Minister Delegate, I fear that, more than these companies, it is your policy that should be framed or even swept away – otherwise human rights will not be sufficiently guaranteed and environmental harm will not be combated!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u44	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u45	Soon nine years have passed since the 1127 deaths at Rana Plaza, and there is still no European legislation on the duty of vigilance of multinationals. To die for wages of misery, because we make ever faster, under unworthy conditions, ever more clothing for consumers living on the other side of the world, this must no longer be possible. Adopted thanks to the commitment of NGOs, trade unions and civil society, thanks to political will, so that multinationals fully assume their responsibilities, the law of 27 March 2017 on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and order-giving companies is certainly not perfect. It struggles to produce its effects: it will have to be strengthened by lowering the thresholds, extending it to all commercial companies, and reversing the burden of proof. However, it is already an international reference: other European states, such as the Netherlands and Germany, have followed suit and have adopted their own legislation. Now it is time to move to a higher speed and extend the duty of vigilance to the whole European Union. I have co-signed this motion for a resolution with both hands; I ask the Government to take advantage of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union to speed up this matter, because things are taking too long. It has been almost a year since the European Parliament adopted a legislative own-initiative report and forwarded a draft directive to the Commission, which is delaying submission of the final version. We're talking about mid-February: Minister Delegate, can you confirm this date? France must unblock the situation and embark its European counterparts. Feedback should also be drawn from experience. In France, the application of the law is hampered by the actions of certain groups of influence, by the immobility of certain companies: out of 263 who are subject to this legislation, according to the Sherpa association and the NGO CCFD-Terre solidaire, six have been the subject of injunctions or subpoenas in court, and forty-four have still not published their vigilance plan. To name only the most problematic cases, a TotalEnergies oil project in Uganda is said to cause massive expropriations, leading to serious violations of the right to food, and risks of environmental damage; Casino Group is called into question for deforestation and invasion of indigenous territories by its suppliers. Both have argued the incompetence of the judicial court, in favour of the commercial court, in order to save time, which is simply unworthy! At the end of 2021, thanks once again to the commitment of NGOs and other actors, as well as to trans-party work and in particular to the support of the guard of the seals, the adoption of an amendment that I defended allowed a major legislative advance: the judicial court in Paris was declared competent, in accordance with the intention of the legislator of 2017. No, we cannot straddle human rights in commercial courts! This episode has at least proved, once again, the immobility of some lobbyists. Let us not delay the introduction of a duty of European vigilance, while continuing to improve French law. In this decade where the climate future depends on our action or inaction, the survival of the companies themselves is linked to their vigilance to prevent and redress serious violations of human rights, health, safety and the environment. It is in their interest to limit the risks of their activity to the planet and to humans. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the Dem group]] [[Mrs Blandine Brocard applauds]] I will therefore enthusiastically support the motion for a resolution. I would like to take the few seconds left to thank two other parliamentarians. The first is Dominique Potier: what a pleasure, during these five years, to have led so many transpartite struggles in agriculture, food, with the same vigour and the same demand – I was going to say with the same faith! I repeat, dear Dominique, it has been a pleasure all the time, and I wish us many other parliamentary mandates. [[The rapporteur applauds]] The second, MEP, always obeys his convictions, never the voting instructions of his group: I have appointed Pascal Durand, who also defends the cause of the duty of vigilance. Dear Pascal, you often tease me by pretending that in the National Assembly we only know how to beat us: our unanimity will show you that we are also able to come together when the subject demands it, especially after a day when the French debates have themselves been invited to the European Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u46	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u47	[[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups]] You will understand that I am happy and moved by your comments, as well as by the unanimous vote that they suggest. While, in the context of the presidential campaign, the debates tend to get bogged down, it is good that we are gathered around a value that raises us: the unwavering link between human dignity and the protection of our common home. I pay tribute to the courage of those who have accompanied me in this fight and who will recognize themselves; I would add that this courage is very relative if we consider the courage of men and women who, throughout the world, in the absence of the rule of law, defend this cause every day at the risk of their lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u48	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u49	In explanation of vote, I call on Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u50	Mr President, I thank you for giving me a few moments to speak on this text, which is of particular interest to me. Thank you to the rapporteur Dominique Potier for having, through this European motion for a resolution, continued the work he had begun during the previous parliamentary term and from which came the law of 27 March 2017. While France, by means of ambitious legislation, has refused to close its eyes to what is happening on the other side of the globe, it is hardly possible for France alone to achieve results. Among the European ambitions for industrial sovereignty and the fight against climate change, I will mention just one example: the Airbus batteries. According to Philippe Varin, who has just submitted to the Government his report on securing the supply of mineral raw materials to the industry, "the next world will be carbon-free, but not metal-free". A year ago, the European Commission approved a €3 billion public aid for a joint research project on new generation batteries, the success of which depends on the existence of a secure supply chain of raw materials, especially lithium. However, we know the conditions for the extraction of these minerals, as well as their ecological consequences. I was able to question Mrs von der Leyen about this last week; We must seize it, ladies and gentlemen, and we must persuade the European Union to secure it with respect for human dignity. That is why the Libertés et Territoires Group will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u51	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u52	I welcome and welcome, on behalf of the IDU and independent Group, the co-signatory of this motion for a resolution. I also salute your constant work, dear Dominique Potier. The part of the world in which we live has experienced industrialization and, over the past 50 years, deindustrialization, which has been accompanied by the relocation of activities to other parts of the world, some of which have practices that are neither virtuous nor reasonable nor responsible. We cannot accept, in 2022, to build a world in which it is the bait of financial gain that governs, under any conditions and at any human and environmental price. This motion for a resolution makes it possible to prevent human rights violations and to empower everyone with regard to climate issues. I remember, dear Dominique Potier, the measures we have taken in certain pieces of legislation, particularly in favour of the granite and textile sectors. In my region, in Brittany, we are not insensitive to the fact that materials such as granite are imported into the European Union from regions of the world where the extraction is carried out by children, or to the fact that textiles made at cheap prices in certain parts of the world are entering our markets. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] I therefore sincerely welcome the work of Dominique Potier, as well as the trans-party work of all the political groups present. The UDI-I Group will vote with force, conviction and heart for this beautiful motion for a resolution, at the very moment when France takes over the presidency of the European Union. Thank you, Dominique!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u53	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u54	I would like to say how important the motion for a resolution seems to us – I will go so far as to say that it is ethically important – and to help give its letters of nobility to politics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u55	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u56	I know that it is the result of a very long work, a journey led by Dominique Potier in particular. I remember that a first step had taken place during the previous term of office; Today, we are going even further. I also remember the desire of our colleague Dominique Potier to give this approach not only a French but also a European dimension – this is the case with this resolution – and even a global one. You invited me, Mr. Rapporteur, when you received a high figure from South America who was defending this path at the UN. Steps like the one we're going through this morning are important steps. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause from the GDR and SOC groups]] The motion for a resolution is also the result of transparency work. If I were to name two names, in addition to Dominique Potier's, I would quote Mireille Clapot, who is very involved in these issues, and my friend Jean-Paul Lecoq's – but I could also mention others. I know that in order to advance ideas, we need transpartial personal commitments. Our group will vote, without hesitation, on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u57	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u58	Earlier, our colleague Lecoq addressed Dominique Potier by saying "Dear Comrade." As for me, I will say "Dear Brother", perhaps he will prefer this expression!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u59	Why wouldn't he like both?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u60	We know that there is a fraternity dimension in your action, Mr rapporteur, as well as in the text that we are going to adopt today. We owe vigilance to our human brothers. Obviously sensitive to fraternity issues, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Mr. Gérard Leseul applauds]] We thank Dominique Potier and the Socialist and Related Group for their support on this important text. Through its national representation, France sends a strong signal to Europe. We know that these signals are important: the adoption by the National Assembly of a bill prohibiting electric fishing had given a strong impetus to the European decision. Thank you Dominique and thank you to all our colleagues for this motion for a resolution which is one of the fine texts of the day – there will be others that we will support.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u61	I shall put to the vote the whole motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u62	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 128 Number of votes cast 128 Absolute majority 65 For adoption 128 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u63	Congratulations, Mr rapporteur, on this fine unanimity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u64	The next item is the discussion, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, of the motion for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of systematic political violence and of the crimes against humanity currently committed by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs (No. 4760).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u65	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u66	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u67	Mr Olivier Faure spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u68	" To name things wrong is to add to the misfortune of the world. " Having met this morning in the Chamber, we have a duty to call the martyrdom of the Uighur minority in China today. We can't say we didn't know. We know, and we have to break the silence. We must break it because crime always flourishes in the darkness of extinct consciences. We must speak because we are France, the country of universal rights, human rights and citizens. It's our legacy; He is our honor and our responsibility. A few days ago, I was given a red notebook. It belongs to Gulbahar Jalilova. This survivor of the camps recorded a list of sixty-seven names: those of his companions in cell 704. These sixty-seven women, between the ages of 14 and 80, made her promise to testify of horror, if she escaped from this hell. The room where they are cloistered is so small that the internees must take over to lie down. They are chained, feet and hands in solidarity; the standing position is thus made impossible. As a toilet, a bucket in the middle of the room that is emptied only once a day. The dirty bodies and skins scarified by parasites and torture coexist, without women having the opportunity to shower. The bruised bodies undergo regular injections to sterilize those of childbearing age. When they leave the cell, it's for a torture session on the tiger chair; It's to be raped, sodomized with an electric stick, to receive vaginal electric shocks when they refuse to sign a confession of terrorism. There's a woman coming out of the adjoining hospital. He was tied up with a plastic bag to hold everything that overflows with his eviscerated body: he was just taken a kidney, by force. A young woman gives birth in custody; her baby is immediately torn from her and she returns to her cell as the milk continues to flow from her breasts. A 25-year-old girl takes her own excrement and gets mad after a torture session. This is what Gulbahar Jalilova's eyes saw. That's what she's been through. This is what she came here to testify with other women and men in the walls of our assembly. It is the destruction of the present and future of the Uighur people that is being accomplished. Two to three million men and women are forcibly imprisoned in more than 1,400 concentration camps. About 900000 children are separated from their interned parents and sent to orphanages where they are re-educated. Forced sterilization causes a dizzying drop in the birth rate. Sixteen thousand mosques were destroyed or damaged. Cemeteries are razed to be replaced by car parks. Digital surveillance is everywhere. The language, religion, Uighur traditions are forbidden. The intellectuals are persecuted. From childhood to death, the entire life of the Uighurs is dislodged by an implacable machine, aimed at the biological and cultural eradication of a people. It is not necessary to summon the image of the mass grave, the gas chamber or the machete to establish the reality of genocide. The London Court of Citizens demonstrated last December that the policy of the Chinese government falls within the scope of the 1948 Genocide Convention, in particular its article 2 on "the intention to destroy, or all or part of, a national, ethnic, racial or religious group. » In the face of this reality, what can be done? Euphemize the crime to relativize its scope? Silence and deny the terrible crime, as China's propaganda enjoins us in it and as its many relays encourage us to do? This is still the case. There are people to speculate about everything. There's a deal for everything, even for horror. Five hundred thousand slaves to produce 20% of the world's cotton production, that's not the way to refuse. A market of 1.4 billion consumers deserves reflection. And this is how crime is added to the obscenity of these air-conditioned boards of directors, where we exchange dividends in a clear tone, without shame or shame.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u69	Please conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u70	Denial is law everywhere where interest dominates. China is a very large country. We love the Chinese, but we refuse to submit to the propaganda of a regime that bets on our cowardice and greed to perpetrate genocide before our eyes. Let none of us consent to his own censorship!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u71	Conclude...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u72	[[Applause on the SOC benches]] Mr President, we can still take another minute to talk about people who at the other end of the world are dying! It is not possible for the Assembly's Rules of Procedure to prohibit talking about what is happening on the other side of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u73	Please, dear colleague...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u74	We are universalist republicans, Mr President, and I would not understand that we cannot speak in this House about what is happening in China today. It is imperative to say to the face of the world and to tell the Chinese government, what is happening, because we will not be able to remain silent any longer and because it is impossible for brands to continue to use, as they do at present, forced labour.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u75	Thank you for concluding.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u76	Colleagues, when the ghosts of these bodies come to haunt our nights, when this macabre procession of being raped, tortured, sterilized, separated, condemned to death or to life will seize remorse from us, we will be alone in front of ourselves, with our conscience, and we will only have our cynicism to absolve ourselves of our watchfulness. I borrow these words from the late Desmond Tutu: "If you have chosen to be neutral in a situation of injustice, you have chosen to be on the side of the oppressor. There is no room for neutrality today. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the SOC Group, as well as Mr Brahim Hammouche, stand up and applaud. – Applause on a few benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean Lassalle also applauds]] For many months now, on virtually every bench of this assembly, you have been mobilized for the Uighur people. Today I dream of a unanimous assembly, where each of us, by voting this resolution, recognizing this genocide, makes the voice of humanism and universalism of human rights resonate to Xinjiang, as far as China.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I have given you time to speak at length than the Rules of Procedure provide, because this is a day reserved for your political group. So I assumed that the president would agree. Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u78	There are parliamentary hours that we probably love more than others and that honour our assembly. After the desire to put the duty of corporate vigilance within a broader framework, that of social Europe, we are addressing the question of safeguarding the Uighurs, a small people who are flouted, insulted, martyred for religious and ethnic reasons. Humanity progresses in law and justice, we see it everywhere, but it struggles to learn from the darkest parts of its history. There is like an invisible force that draws him to evil, that pushes him to do evil and deny individuals or communities their sacred dignity as human beings. We are in the 21st century and new persecutions are added – alas – to the long list of persecutions, massacres, deportations in our history. I am thinking of the Rohingya, the Yezidis, the Christians of Egypt or Pakistan and many other peoples who have been persecuted throughout the world. Kissing the cause of the Uighurs is kind of embracing all the causes of the persecuted peoples today. How can we not see in their mass deportation in degrading and degrading conditions, in their arbitrary detention, in forced labour, in the torture and cruel treatment inflicted on them, in the campaigns of acculturation of their children, forced to become good Chinese children, in the internal colonization, in the physical separation of families, couples, children, in the incitement to mixed marriages, in sterilizations and forced abortions, in the relentlessness against their culture, the flagrant evidence of a true genocide, of a crime committed against our humanity? How can we not see in Chinese propaganda, which presents the re-education camps for the Uighurs as vocational training centres, a gloomy and gloomy analogy with Nazi propaganda in Dachau in 1934? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, to fight against a people, against their children, against their culture, is to cross, on the side of evil, the boundaries common to all cultures. Since Nuremberg, everyone must hear and admit that there is no impunity for the perpetrators of genocidal crimes, but it is probably easier to enforce this sacred norm within a geopolitical space like Europe than by governance as far removed from the criteria for defining a democracy as the People's Republic of China. I am convinced that, more than ever, in a time of globalization, we are in the same boat, that we share a common destiny. Acting for the Uighurs means that nothing can justify or – worse – excuse the persecution of a people. To act for the Uighurs is to call on the conscience of the Chinese people to stop attacks against a religious minority in their country. To act for the Uighurs is to hope that Europe will be more offensive in defending the dignity of every people around the world. To act for the Uighurs is to support France's initiative for an international fact-finding mission to Xinjiang. To act for the Uighurs is to know how to reserve on our soil the best possible welcome to their nationals. Acting for the Uighurs is a way of asserting to the face of the world, to the face of the tyrants, our sacred dignity as human beings. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC group and on a few benches of the Dem groups, Agir ens and GDR. – Mrs Anne Genetet also applauds]] To act for the Uighurs is to vote in favour of this resolution, which the Group of the European People's Party will naturally do together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u79	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u80	The motion for a resolution aims to recognize the genocidal nature of the systematic political violence and the crimes against humanity currently being perpetrated by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs, the Turkish population and the majority Muslim population. From a historical point of view, we know that there have been recurrent disturbances in the Eastern Turkestan region since its annexation to the People's Republic of China in 1949. But since the designation of Xi Jinping as head of the government of the People's Republic of China, these policies of sinization have taken an extreme form, aimed at eradicating Uighur identity as such. From a factual point of view, we know, thanks to many NGOs, that 3 million people live in concentration camps and that millions more are reduced to slavery. According to experts, uterine ablation, abortions and the imposition of IUDs on Uighur women by the Chinese State will result in a significantly lower number of births in the coming years than it might have been and a partial destruction of Uighurs. According to them, China remains responsible for crimes against humanity, imprisonment, torture, rape, sexual violence, forced sterilization and other inhumane acts. Moreover, the revelations about the complicity of Western companies in forced labour require that these issues be addressed by the international community. Thanks to the years of work of activists to denounce violations, in the supply chains of many societies, some Uighurs' human rights have taken steps to make statements, deny or, in some cases, initiate changes. Several States have formalized their recognition of the Uighurs genocide by the People's Republic of China. The Congress of the United States, the parliaments of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Canada, Belgium, the Czech Republic and Lithuania have condemned the People's Republic of China for crimes against humanity, genocide or a serious risk of genocide. Similar procedures are under way in other States. France, for its part, denounced in February 2021 a "system of institutionalized repression" and initiated reflections on the use of the term genocide, without recognizing or condemning this crime as such. This international surge follows the European Parliament's resolution of 17 December 2020 on forced labour and the situation of Uighurs in the Uighur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang, a text that has acted as a catalyst and proved how much the European Union can be a centre of political momentum. Deeply European, we believe that this initiative will be stronger if all EU Member States replicate it. Our Parliament cannot therefore remain alien to it. It seems that the discussion – which we will have here again in the near future – focuses mainly on the use of the term genocide. It is not obvious to decide on the gradation of a crime or to have to debate on the semantics of horror. It's better to focus on the facts. However, as I said, the experts speak well of a "partial destruction" that targets an ethnic group, which is currently part of the definition of the UN Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, particularly as a result of sterilization measures. It is this factual approach that led our IDU and independent group to defend a motion for a resolution by Jean-Christophe Lagarde last November to recognise the genocide of the Kurds in Iraq, which you surprisingly rejected. We believe, however, that we must have the courage to condemn in this Chamber any form of repression and oppression of any minority. In short, as parliamentarians of a European country, we can do nothing without doing anything. We must also pay particular attention to the cessation of business practices that allow businesses to avoid their responsibility for the presence of Uighur slaves in supply chains. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – Mrs Anne Genetet and Mr Thierry Benoit also applaud]] For all these reasons, our group will of course vote for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u81	Mr Jean-Michel Clément has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u82	For the Uighur court, the finding is without appeal: "the elements of intentional genocide as defined by article 2 of the 1948 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide are established. China "is guilty of genocide by imposing birth prevention measures to destroy a significant portion of the Xinjiang Uighurs. President Xi Jinping and other senior managers bear the primary responsibility. » This independent citizen body, chaired by the former Attorney General of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, has for several months examined the crimes committed in Xinjiang. The evidence is there: we are facing crimes against humanity on a large scale, with a policy of systematic internment. The documents internal to the Chinese administration, revealed in particular by Professor Adrian Zenz, revealed the intentional nature of these crimes. Cloé Drieu, a researcher at the CNRS – the National Centre for Scientific Research – recalls that the Chinese authorities speak of "dilution of the ethnic element", of populations "to criminal history" or "negative energy", or of the need to "solve the human problem" in Xinjiang. Terms to icing blood. [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Several countries such as the United States, Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Lithuania and Belgium have already recognized what constitutes genocide. What are we waiting for to do? Our country took a first step in recognizing before the UN Human Rights Council in February 2021 "a system of institutionalized surveillance and repression on a large scale" and you said, Minister Delegate, that we should start thinking about the word "genocide". [[Mr. Jean Lassalle applauds]] Time is no longer for reflection but for action: it begins by naming crimes for what they are. We must recognise the ongoing genocide and the adoption, by the widest possible majority, of the motion for a resolution would finally send a message to the tune of the stakes. We also have, and above all, a duty of prevention with only one objective: to ensure that the crimes cease in Xinjiang. My colleague from the Libertés et territoires group, Frédérique Dumas – who, declared positive at the covid, asks you to excuse his absence – is a co-author of this motion for a resolution which the Socialist Group has chosen to take up in extenso as part of its parliamentary niche. It has also tabled a new motion for a resolution on this serious subject, the aim of which is to strengthen the legal basis on which France can act and envisage specific actions. This text on the agenda of our February 4 niche is based on the resolution adopted in Belgium, in line with the work of our international partners. It also condemns the crimes against humanity committed in Xinjiang, but uses an operational legal basis: that of the "serious risk of genocide", the wording of which is based on article 1 of the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, under which the 152 signatory States, including France, have an obligation to prevent genocide – and therefore to act. This new motion for a resolution gives rise to a concrete plan of action in the form of 27 recommendations and invitations to the French Government: to act on the duty of vigilance of multinationals linked to trafficking in human organs, to support initiatives calling for unimpeded access to the Xinjiang Autonomous Region or to refuse the extradition of persons from the Uighur minority in case of a risk of torture. [[Mrs Valérie Rabault and Mr Jean Lassalle applaud]] We also make recommendations that France could defend at international level, particularly in the framework of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, such as the application of a European Magnitsky law, which allows sanctions against China; The ban on the import of goods from forced labour – as the US Congress has just done; the freezing of the draft comprehensive investment agreement between the European Union and China until fundamental rights are respected. The House of Commons, which has already recognized genocide, is today even considering an emergency motion on the notion of a serious risk of genocide, recognizing that it is the only legal basis for concrete action. Thus, through our second motion for a resolution, it is not a question of waiting in vain for the recognition of genocide by an international court, but of enforcing the international conventions that we have signed and ratified, as well as their interpretation by the International Court of Justice, and not of making ourselves indirectly complicit in the worst. [[Applause on the SOC benches. – MM. Jean Lassalle and Brahim Hammouche also applaud]] However, because we cannot say today that we do not know, our group will obviously support this motion for a resolution. Its adoption by the National Assembly will send a strong message. The priority is to act in the most unanimous way to bring the genocide to an end. We will be by your side to do this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u83	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u84	I deliver my speech before you with the seriousness required by horror. The feeling of tragedy commands, as must always be the case when history raises our conscience in the place of the judge. For many years, the Xinjiang has been plunged into terror. The testimonies that come to us are icy and we can only be petrified by thinking of all those who cannot cross the walls that stifle them. Massive surveillance, the concentrationary logic of an industrial-scale detention, deportations to labour camps, is the setting in motion of a people's nightmare. The ban on Muslim worship, the systematic destruction of mosques, the forced transfer of children to orphanages run by the Chinese Communist Party, the policy of settlement by Han families, is the forced destruction of a culture. The systematic use of torture and rape, murders, sterilizations and forced abortions, humiliations, slavery, suspicions of organ removals from living bodies, is the ferocious reduction of human rights, the abduction of this dignity to individuals that makes us men and women, the coldest denial of their humanity. By bringing the technological modernity of the 21st century to the worst Orwellian nightmares, the Chinese regime is guilty of crimes against humanity all the more atrocious as they unfold on a large scale. When guards shoot Uighur women by forcing them to make their intimate toilet with a peppered sauce, how can we not think of the castor oil used by Italian fascists to humiliate and dehumanize? When more than a million Uighurs are being held in internment camps, how can we not imagine the horror of the Soviet gulags who have broken so many opponents of the regime? When Uighur women are raped and their foetuses are ripped out, how can we not think of the frightening scenes that marked the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina where these violences were put at the service of a policy of ethnic cleansing? I summon these most sordid examples to help us measure this hell. The group La France insoubted did not remain silent in the face of this horror: we sent letters to the President of the Republic, created a parliamentary solidarity collective of eight unsubstantiated Members, repeatedly questioned the minister in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, participated again recently in demonstrations, signed the charter of solidarity with the Uighur people and various and varied petitions. To make the cause of the Uighur people heard, and I took my part in it, in order to provoke – in vain so far – a reaction from the Government in multilateral forums, we have used all the political lines and we will continue to do so. The motion for a resolution puts the term genocide in the marble of an official text. I would like to see its scope and the issues it raises. As many of you know, this is not the first time I have called for intellectual rigour to question the relevance of this word to describe such atrocities. I note that the major humanitarian NGOs are talking about crimes against humanity, not genocide. It must be said that the UN recognizes only three genocides: that of the Armenian people by the Ottoman Empire, that of the Jews by the Nazis and that of the Tutsis by the Hutu power in which, I remind you, France has a share of responsibility. The word genocide is therefore not synonymous with crimes against humanity, even though I know it can be in our imagination. I myself have relayed petitions using this term about the Uighurs, because I did not want to dissociate myself from movements – some of which I greet in the gallery – that denounce unacceptable crimes. Nevertheless, the motion for a resolution commits France to the word and the words must be accurately and accurately weighed. As a trained historian, I know that there is no consensus in the scientific community to talk about genocide. Like the United Nations, I was of course disturbed by the London report. I would have liked the French government to make known the cause of the Uighurs in its diplomatic relations with China and to demand that the United Nations should be able to carry out its investigative work in order to determine the exact nature and extent of what is happening. Whether or not to use the term genocide is a legal and political issue. Genocide is the claimed, affirmed, systematic intention to exterminate all or part of a people. I do not know whether we can refer to the horrific crimes committed against the Uighurs by the term which describes what the Jews, Armenians or Tutsis have suffered. What I am convinced is that there is a risk, a genocidal dynamic. Perhaps the use of these terms would have led to a wider consensus. Our responsibility is to say so and to help stop this dynamic. [[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on several benches of the FI and GDR groups]] However, if there is genocide, how can we send a delegation to the Beijing Olympic Games, forge commercial partnerships and even maintain diplomatic relations with China? Bridging the weakness of the acts by the inflation of words will not save the Uighurs in any way. I hope that the unanimity that is emerging today in the defence of the Uighur people will, in the long term, lead to acts that will prevent the worst of inhumanity from happening and repeating itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u85	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u86	The motion for a resolution does not seem to us to meet the challenges facing the Uighurs. On the form, the Communist deputies defend a principled position on the motions for resolutions calling for the recognition of genocide, the latest one concerning the Kurds of Iraq: the designation of genocide or a crime against humanity belongs not to the legislator but to the international judge, after an investigation and a fair trial.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u87	It's too late!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u88	On the other hand, as we have already said, this kind of initiative aimed at denouncing genocide or crimes against humanity is part of an unhealthy memorial competition – as Clementine Autain has just recalled – and places the tragedies of entire peoples on different levels. We reject this logic. That is why, without even prejudging the substance, we believe that it is not serious to investigate such a complex matter in the context of a parliamentary motion for a resolution. As far as the political opportunity for such action is concerned, let us not be naive. Everyone knows that China has become powerful because by moving our industries, shareholders have made extravagant profits. The Communists were the only ones to denounce him at the time! But finally, the world's workshop is not as docile as expected. China has become a systemic rival. In this new cold war, many economic and political forces have an interest in making China a bloodthirsty state to prepare opinion for economic war, if not worse. And it will not have escaped you that the situation in Xinjiang, although worrying and unbearable for several decades, has become a subject only since Trump launched the trade war against China. For Communist deputies, being vigilant when Westerners go to war is considered humanitarian missionaries, is a reflex nourished by horrific memories in Iraq, Libya and I pass by. But beware of the confusion: denouncing these methods is not supporting China! We refuse this binary trap. From the judicial point of view, we believe that investigations should be carried out before charges are brought. Since China is not a party to the Rome Statute, a referral to the International Criminal Court (ICC) could only be made with a vote in the UN Security Council, in which it sits with a veto. This explains the blocking and the need, as for Syria, to establish an impartial and independent international mechanism in order to gather all the evidence of the crimes we are accusing him of. In a hearing conducted by the Bureau of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I called on the Chinese Ambassador to open the doors, welcome investigators, let them conduct interviews and move freely in Xinjiang. If China has nothing to hide, it will accept. Otherwise, the worst fears will remain and we will be condemned to wander in security or genocidal doubt. Finally, let's talk about the facts. As you know, the truth is discreet: when two blocks clash, it fades. What certainties do we have with regard to this region? Finally, not much. It appears that the Chinese State's response has been extremely fierce in the face of ethnic tensions, numerous deadly attacks and the risk of importing into the Xinjiang region of border country conflicts, such as Pakistan and Afghanistan. After the 2014 attacks, Beijing launched a "people's war against terror", organizing a grid of the region, imprisoning in turn and establishing an extremely strict system of social control and racial discrimination based on a network of surveillance cameras with powerful facial recognition systems. The "Family Making" programme, under which Uighurs must welcome officials to supervise them and even abuse their hosts, is absolutely unacceptable. We also strongly denounce the forced acculturation of minorities that has been going on for fifty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u89	And torture!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u90	The question of the existence of camps and forced labour is also extremely serious. Although the Chinese Government assumed their existence, information was lacking on what was happening inside the country and on the number of interned persons. Detention on the one hand, concentration camps on the other, from a few hundred thousand people to several million – perhaps 6 million – is obviously unbearable, but the discrepancies in figures show very partial information, which is therefore subject to bail. What is certain, however, is that China is probably blinded by its status as a new world leader, which inspires it a certain degree of sufficiency. The Chinese ambassador even told us that the Uighurs who resisted their policies were anti-Chinese, and were therefore not worthy of being citizens. Yet, we say it firmly: there can be no under-population. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr Jean-Louis Bricout and Mrs Brigitte Liso applaud]] The choice of Communist deputies has been considered at length. Our vote will be abstaining and, for some, it will be a vote in favour of this resolution. We will thus say our distrust of the intentions behind this campaign, while expressing our solidarity with every oppressed people in the world and with the Uighur people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u91	Mrs Fiona Lazaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u92	Faced with the inacceptable, in the face of injustice, France does not remain silent. Elected from the nation, and thus bearing the values that cement the republican pact, we know – and this resolution reminds us – that the texts voted and the words spoken in this assembly resonate far beyond this Chamber, far beyond our borders. For years, warnings have been increasing about abuses in Xinjiang, the western province of the People's Republic of China, against minorities, especially the Uighurs, a Muslim, Turkish and Turkish-speaking minority, who have been living in that province for more than a millennium. The various reports of journalists and humanitarian organizations, the testimonies of survivors, leave no doubt as to the extent of the violence perpetrated by the Chinese Government against millions of men, women and children. Because Uighurs, they are forced into forced labour. Because Uighurs, they are victims of repressive policy and boundless surveillance. Because Uighours, women are raped massively and are even subjected to forced sterilization. Because they were born Uighurs, hundreds of thousands of children are separated from their families and interned in camps to undergo forced rehabilitation that makes them forget their culture. We cannot remain unanswered. In essence, the motion for a resolution before us today reaffirms France's struggle in the world to defend fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights of individuals. This resolution therefore does not call for any political game: it will draw its strength only from a trans-party gathering. In this regard, I welcome the important mobilization on this subject. I am thinking in particular of our colleague Alain David, the first signatory of the resolution, and of the work of Frédérique Dumas, a member of the collective of solidarity with the Uighurs. The violence suffered by this community is unchallenged. While it is not France's or its Parliament's responsibility to judge their genocidal nature, denouncing such persecutions by adopting the motion for a resolution is a strong symbol, which recalls and reinforces our country's commitment to putting an end to this unacceptable situation. For more than two years now, France has repeatedly condemned China's actions against the Uighurs. At the forty-first session of the Human Rights Council, in 2019, France, along with 21 other States, alerted the President of the Human Rights Council. In response to the French parliamentarians, the President of the Republic condemned in 2020 the actions of the Chinese central government. In February 2021, before the UN Human Rights Council, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs strongly denounced the repression against this community. Finally, last October, in front of the Third Committee of the UN General Assembly, France made the voice of 43 states to alert about the human rights situation in Xinjiang. This commitment to respect for international law and human rights honours our country, and it is from this perspective that the majority wishes to join. The National Assembly thus today takes its full part in the protest movement which raises one by one democratic bodies throughout the world. After the parliaments of the United Kingdom, Canada, Belgium and the United States, it is up to us to publicly support this persecuted community and send a message to the world: we French, faithful to our values and our history, do not remain spectators of a discriminatory policy. This motion for a resolution is therefore a further contribution to the denunciation of the system of persecution against the Uighurs, even if it is in the common mobilization of States that our action must primarily be exercised. Today we must go beyond unilateral actions and carry a strong, collective message, backed by concrete actions. In this connection, we can welcome the work undertaken by the European Commission, and supported in a resolution by the European Parliament, on a future European proposal for a duty of vigilance on the part of the Union's companies, which will prohibit, in particular, the sale on the European market of products derived from forced labour. This is also one of the priorities of the French Presidency of the European Union and we can be proud of it. The President of the Republic recalled this in his speech to the European Parliament yesterday: "The French Presidency will be a Presidency to promote the values that make us. [...] The end of the rule of law is the reign of arbitrariness, [...] the sign of the return to authoritarian regimes, to the stifling of our history. These values that are at the heart of our project must be accompanied by strong measures and the French Presidency of the European Union is an opportunity to strengthen our mobilisation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and LT groups. – Mr Cédric Villani also applauds]] Aware of the symbol represented by the vote on this text, the majority will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u93	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u94	The motion for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of systematic political violence and of the crimes against humanity currently being perpetrated by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs is a very important text and the moment we are living together is a moment to come. It is time for our National Assembly to emerge from its silence and solemnly denounce all kinds of abuses, persecutions and systematic grave violations of human rights, which amount to crimes against humanity committed by the authorities of the People's Republic of China against the Uighur people. Two texts are on the agenda of our Assembly: the motion for a resolution under discussion and that of Frédérique Dumas, which I have co-signed and whose consideration is scheduled for 4 February, concerning the recognition and condemnation of systematic and planned violence, crimes against humanity and the serious risk of ongoing genocide perpetrated by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs and calling for the establishment of an independent international investigation. We can't say we didn't know. Mass arrests and arbitrary detentions of the Uighur population in so-called re-education camps, deportations from Xinjiang to other parts of China, arbitrary arrests and detentions, capital punishment, forced labour in internment camps or factories – we can talk about slavery – torture, sexual assaults and systematic rapes, forced organ removals, forced transfers and detentions of Uighur children in public orphanages when one of their parents is interned in one of these sinister camps, mass surveillance, including digital surveillance, mass police intrusion, with these home stays of Chinese men in Uighur homes, draconian restrictions on religious practices, destruction of cultural heritage, beginning with places of worship, end of Uighur language education in a manifest will of forced sinisation of Uighur and eradication of Uighur culture and identity: this is what has been going on for several years now for Uighur populations, as well as for other ethnic, ethnic and ethnic minorities in this region. How can we not also mention the strategy of repressive birth control, which is based both on forced sterilization of an extremely large number of women and on the internment of men of childbearing age? The implementation of this strategy for the control of births has, of course, drastically reduced the birth rate of Uighurs in the Xinjiang region. There is indeed the marked sign of the will of the authorities of the People's Republic of China to biologically destroy the Uighur and Turkish populations, which can be regarded as one of the main criteria for the definition of the term genocide, according to the 1948 UN Convention. The Canadian, Dutch, British, Lithuanian, Czech and Belgian Parliaments have already adopted resolutions condemning very solemnly human rights violations, persecutions and crimes against humanity committed against the Uighur population and, for some of these resolutions, recognizing the genocidal nature of the violence. As early as 2019, the US Congress also denounced forced labour and called for the full restoration of the human rights of the Uighur people. This was said earlier, the European Parliament, for its part, not only awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Mind and Human Rights from 2019 to the Uighur Ilham Tohti, imprisoned and sentenced in 2014 to life by the Beijing regime, but also discussed and adopted two resolutions, one in December 2019, the other in December 2020, trans-party resolutions voted by a very large majority in the Strasbourg Parliament's hemicycle, notably with the votes of the Members of the European Parliament of the Republican Right. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Because we will never be able to say that we did not know, because we have to say things, that we do not come out of complacent silence, because we have to put words on evils, because we can no longer remain inert in the face of the absolute tragedy experienced by the Uighur people in the face of violence, all kinds of abuses, these crimes against humanity, I will vote for the motion for a resolution defended today by the Socialist Group. [[Same movements]] We, the Members of the Republicans present in the Chamber here this morning, will be voting on this proposal, as well as on all the recommendations and avenues for action and mobilisation it proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u95	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u96	Internment, forced labour, torture, sterilization, mass surveillance... The list of abuses coming to us from the Xinjiang Autonomous Region is long and now documented. The testimonies flowed, despite restrictions imposed on foreign observers. Since 2009, and even more so since the launch of the "Strengthening Strong Against Terrorist Violence" campaign, the policy of sinisation is similar to a desire to eradicate Uighur identity. [[Mr Cédric Villani and Ms Christine Pires Beaune applaud]] This policy against Uighur populations and other Turkish minorities, including Kazakhs, involves repression, confinement and even torture, with specific targeting of artists, intellectuals, public figures and community leaders. I have a thought at this moment for Ilham Tohti, the 2019 Sakharov Prize, who, for challenging the version of violent incidents involving Uighurs, was sentenced to life imprisonment. It is the very denial of the humanity of the Uighurs that is mentioned when forced organ removals are carried out on detainees. Not to mention the brutal destruction of the culture and filiation of this minority, denounced by NGOs. In the viewfinder, places of worship and cult practices, but not only. Children are taken away from their parents to receive instruction exclusively in Mandarin, mass sterilizations are organized, Chinese executives even settle in the privacy of Uighur homes. And this repressive policy relies on the mobilization of the highest digital technology to deploy a tentacular control system. This surveillance also extends abroad, particularly in France, where nationals report intimidation. Faced with the denials of the Chinese regime, the international community is mobilizing itself against these crimes against our humanity. A year ago, Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, denounced a "system of institutionalized surveillance and repression" and called for the sending to the region of an "unbiased, independent and transparent mission of international experts", under the responsibility of Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The European Union, for its part, has also strongly committed itself to this fight, first of all with the European Parliament's resolution of 17 December 2020 on forced labour and the situation of the Uighurs in the Uighur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang, which condemned "the current persecutions and serious and systematic violations of human rights which are tantamount to crimes against humanity". Secondly, the European Union committed itself with the Council Implementing Regulation of 22 March 2021, which imposed sanctions against eleven natural persons and four legal persons involved in the human rights violations committed against the Uighurs, an unprecedented measure since the events in Tiananmen. Four European parliaments have condemned "crimes against humanity", "genocide" or "risk of genocide" in Xinjiang: the House of Commons, which is still debating it today, the American Congress and the Canadian Parliament. As for the group of nine experts based in London, he said that China had committed "genocide by imposing birth prevention measures". The text we are looking at is part of the work that our assembly has been doing for several months. It concerns the recognition and condemnation of violence constituting crimes against humanity and genocide. It reaffirms our support for the Uighur people and reiterates our request to the French Government to protect Uighur nationals who have been welcomed on our soil. While the official characterization of genocide falls under the jurisdiction of the courts, our responsibility, as French parliamentarians, is to send a strong message to the Chinese authorities and strongly condemn, in the name of our humanistic and universalistic values, the abuses committed against the Uighurs. I regret this morning, however, that I cannot debate a more robust resolution with proposals. For the strength of the symbol must be accompanied by concrete actions at national, European and international level, from which we can use, as levers, to strengthen our position in the balance of power that will inevitably have to be engaged with the Chinese authorities to prevent and suppress these abuses. The President of the Republic recalled yesterday that the comprehensive investment agreement between the European Union and China would be postponed sine die in the absence of progress on the Uighur issue. When it comes to human rights violations, we have more than ever a duty to ensure the effectiveness of the measures adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and SOC groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Because they are resolutely committed to the defence of human rights, the Members of the Dem Group, who are alongside the Uighur people in their suffering, will vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u97	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u98	It is intense and moving moments in the life of an elected member of the nation, including a parliamentarian. The one we live this morning should be and, to tell you everything, it will be especially so for me. Our planet is boiling and the victims of conflict are no longer counted. Repressive policies govern the daily lives of millions of people in dictatorships that do not say their names. Our world is going wrong. Since my election to the National Assembly in 2017, I have worked, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on many countries, on many areas of conflict, on too many humanitarian disasters. From Burma to the Sahel, from Syria to Armenia, from Ukraine to Iraq, from Tigray to Afghanistan, all these regions have been the subject of parliamentary hearings, meetings and initiatives. No hierarchy is possible between the singular and yet so comparable dramas taking place there. For several months, the deputies of the Socialist and related groups and other parliamentarians involved in the matter – I think, in particular, in Frédérique Dumas, Olivier Faure and Boris Vallaud – have worked with the Uighur Institute of Europe, researchers, NGOs, the Uighur Court of London, a group of young people for the Uighurs and survivors who came to testify in the Assembly. Each time, detailed accounts and evidence of abuses and crimes have further convinced us of the need for strong action. I therefore welcome the fact that the parliamentary calendar, yet dense, and the niche of the Socialist and related group now offer the national representation the opportunity to look at the situation of the Uighurs. This morning, we are facing a word that makes history: genocide – in this case the genocide of the Uighurs. Other countries, before us, have recognized this dramatic and undeniable fact: the Government of the United States, as well as the parliaments of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Canada. The explanatory memorandum to the motion for a resolution states that comparable procedures are under way in Belgium, Germany, Lithuania and New Zealand. The European Parliament, for its part, adopted a resolution on forced labour and the situation of the Uighurs in the Uighur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang. So let's not give in to intimidation and stand up to the stakes! Of course, China is a great country, a true civilization, which has brought much to humanity and will certainly continue to do so in the future. His growing power and influence should prompt him to put an end to these atrocities as a matter of urgency, but when, at a hearing, I questioned the Chinese ambassador on this subject, I heard condescendingly that my question was not right and that everything was going well in the Xinjiang province. Ladies and gentlemen, the Uighur genocide is as indisputable as it is untenable. China should not threaten human rights and freedoms with impunity. Xi Jinping said a month ago that democracy was "a weapon of mass destruction" against which his country intended to resist. I do not see what could further mobilize us, who are the elected representatives of the first modern democracy in history! A strong reaction is needed, and this motion for a resolution is the first step. The constituent elements of the genocidal fact are now widely documented: an intention to destroy the identity and community ties of the Uighurs and to undermine the filiation between the generations – more generally, the will to destroy this people. We call on the Government to intervene with the international community and the Chinese Government to stop these crimes and to ensure that the fundamental freedoms of the Uighurs are respected. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of all groups turn to the stands and applaud]] [[Same movements]] Colleagues, I solemnly ask you to return and observe the Uighurs survivors in the stands. Let's thank those brave witnesses. They're our brothers, they're our sisters! Let us respect their tears and their suffering, and let us make the choice of France of Enlightenment, of resistant France, of humanist France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u99	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u100	Let us make the choice of freedom, equality and fraternity, so that the violence suffered by the Uighur people will cease! [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and LR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Socialist and Related Group will vote unanimously on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u101	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u102	Mr Cédric Villani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u103	In 1964, General de Gaulle's France was one of the very first Western countries to recognize Mao's China as a sovereign power and to enter into diplomatic relations with it. It was the beginning of a sustained Franco-Chinese economic, cultural and scientific interaction. I myself have had the honour of participating in this long history of mutual respect and friendship through scientific symposia, institutional partnerships, public lectures, debates with members of the prestigious Chinese Academy of Sciences, and exchanges with passionate Chinese high school students on the exciting campuses of Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen or Xining, which have accompanied the extraordinary rise in Chinese science. On the human level, I want to evoke my emotion in the face of the incredible multi-cultural student frescoes of a tunnel in Xiamen, facing my caricature, carved with talent by a young student from Beijing and proudly preserved, facing the welcoming and generous citizens met at the turn of an alley in Beijing, as in Francis Lemarque's song. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] This friendship and French respect for the Chinese people makes it all the more painful and necessary to recognize today, unambiguously, the atrocities committed by the Chinese government. 1964 was not only the year of the recognition of China; It was also the first international campaign of an association promised an extraordinary growth: Amnesty International, respected throughout the world for its tenacity in defending human rights, for its rigour and independence. Together with others, the association produced a wealth of documents and testimonies that were rigorously collected and cross-referenced to the daily life in Xinjiang province of China. This documentation enabled Amnesty International's Secretary-General to state: "The Chinese authorities have created a dystopic nightmare environment on a staggering scale in the Uyghur Autonomous Region of Xinjiang. Uighurs, Kazakhs and other Muslim minorities are victims of crimes against humanity and other serious human rights violations that threaten to destroy their religious and cultural identity. » Already in 2014, shortly after President Xi Jinping came to power, Uighur intellectual Ilham Tohti, a university professor advocating intercultural dialogue, had been sentenced to life imprisonment for a website deemed subversive. In 2019, the European Parliament awarded him the Sakharov Prize for Human Rights, but we haven't heard from him for years. From 2017, persecution worsened under the pretext of fighting terrorism: arbitrary arrests, physical and psychological torture, sometimes to death, repeated rapes, political indoctrination and forced assimilation, mass internments, beatings, electric shocks, uncomfortable positions imposed for days, deprivation of sleep, cold temperatures. A few days ago, at the invitation of the Uighur Institute of Europe, we heard the poignant testimonies of two of these prisoners, two of the hundreds of thousands interned in these camps, pudically called "training camps" or "rehabilitation camps". Life in Xinjiang is also forced labour, especially for cotton production, and mass surveillance. According to Amnesty International, "Xinjiang Muslims are among the most closely monitored populations in the world". Life in Xinjiang is also the eradication of religion and language, the destruction – according to satellite images – of 16,000 mosques and the brutal control of the birth, through sterilization, forced abortions and the placement of children. "Truth words often lack elegance," said Tseu. In this case, the truth is simply atrocious: this great country, which knows how to plan and organize better than anyone else, has planned and organized an operation to reduce, by force, the Uighur presence in Xinjiang. The documents that leaked about the analyses and intentions of President Xi Jinping and the leader of the Chinese Communist Party in Xinjiang, Chen Quanguo, authenticated by independent experts, are indicative of the state's will to this persecution. Indeed, the facts established in Xinjiang cover all practices defined as genocide by the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, adopted by the United Nations in 1948. These practices include, for example, a serious violation of the physical or moral integrity of members of a group or measures aimed at totally or partially obstructing births within that group. In fact, the London Uighur Court, which has an independent jury with no connection to the Uighur case, composed of recognized experts working pro bono, according to a rigorous and transparent methodology, concluded last December that genocide in this case was characterized. It is time for our assembly to do the same, and I thank the Socialist and related group for giving us the opportunity today. [[Sophie Mette applauds]] This debate is part of the continuation of the action of other parliamentarians, such as Raphaël Glucksmann, a tireless defender of the Uighur cause in the European Parliament, Hubert Julien-Laferrière, who was the first in this Chamber to ask the Government to recognise the crimes against humanity perpetrated in China, or Alain David and Frédérique Dumas. [[Applause on the SOC benches, on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as among non-attached Members]] By adopting the motion for a resolution, we will join the assemblies representing no less than seven Western democracies and we will promote the essential joint action that the 1948 United Nations Convention requires us to take to put an end to the genocide of the Uighurs. This action will have to be manifested in concrete ways in our relations with China, particularly in economic and scientific terms. Resolutions are essential, but if we are content with statements, we will remain, in all things, paper tigers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u104	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I have a request for a public vote before the working Republic and Socialist and related groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u105	I appreciate the seriousness of the subject which leads me to address you today on the occasion of the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of the systematic political violence and of the crimes against humanity currently committed by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs, which Mr Alain David, in accordance with Article 34-1 of the Constitution, has kindly tabled. The fact that you have all just established is widely shared: many overwhelming testimonies attest to extremely serious human rights violations in the Xinjiang region. To be quite precise, we are talking about the testimonies of the Uighurs' internment in camps, massive detentions, disappearances, forced labour, rape and sexual abuse in camps, forced sterilizations, the destruction of Uighur cultural heritage, especially places of worship, and the monitoring of the population. Faced with the gravity of the situation in Xinjiang, France strongly denounces these unqualified and unjustifiable practices at all levels. The subject of human rights in China, particularly in Xinjiang, is systematically discussed during bilateral talks between Paris and Beijing, up to the highest level. We convey to the Chinese authorities our most serious concerns, shared by French public opinion, about the extent and gravity of the violations committed in Xinjiang, and we call for an end to them. The President of the Republic has on several occasions expressed himself publicly, without any ambiguity, in this regard. I would like to refer you to the particularly strong comments he made yesterday before the European Parliament. He also directly shares his concerns with his Chinese counterpart, President Xi Jinping, during their regular meetings. Similarly, the Government expresses its concern publicly through official statements that relate not only to the deterioration of the human rights situation in China, particularly in Xinjiang, but also to individual situations, such as the recently highlighted tennis player Peng Shuai. Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian has also spoken many times before you, as well as in the Senate or in the media, strongly condemning the repressive system that is running in this region. At the same time, and despite a difficult context, the French Embassy in China continues to support civil society and human rights activists. France is also mobilized about the situation in Xinjiang in international human rights forums. At the forty-sixth session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, held last February, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs raised this issue among those who needed careful follow-up, given the systematic and serious nature of the human rights violations observed. In particular, he referred to an institutionalized system of large-scale surveillance and repression, documented by many consistent reports and testimonies that I mentioned a few moments ago. During the general debate under item 4 of the agenda of the same session – forgive me for coming to this level of detail in the proceedings, but it is in this session that the most serious cases are discussed – France's speech began by mentioning the situation in Xinjiang. Before the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly on 21 October, France coordinated the drafting of a joint trans-regional statement on the situation of human rights in Xinjiang, delivered on behalf of forty-three States. The text provides an inventory of human rights violations and abuses committed in Xinjiang, including cases of arbitrary detention, torture and restriction of fundamental freedoms on the Uighurs. It also calls for an immediate and unhindered visit by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to the region, and for China to respect its international human rights obligations, in line with France's repeated calls to the Chinese side. At European level, our action has taken on a new dimension with the adoption of the sanctions adopted on 22 March 2021 under the new transversal regime of European restrictive measures for serious human rights violations. We supported the renewal of these measures on 6 December, and I would like to point out in this regard that of the fourteen individuals and four entities subject to these sanctions worldwide, four individuals and one entity are in the name of what is happening in Xinjiang. Within the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, France intends to continue, in coordination with the Member States, the demanding dialogue with China at European level on respect for human rights, particularly in Xinjiang, within the framework of the forthcoming European Union-China deadlines. Since you mentioned the comprehensive investment agreement between the European Union and China – Comprehensive Agreement on Investment, or CAI – let me say a few words about it. As the President of the Republic put it very clearly before the European Parliament yesterday, "There will be no investment agreement if there is no ratification of the ILO conventions" which allow for the prohibition and control of forced labour. You know that no progress on this agreement will be possible as long as China continues to impose sanctions on European parliamentarians and researchers. The President of the Republic also referred yesterday to the issue of the duty of vigilance, which we discussed just before addressing this motion for a resolution. We will continue to support the work of the European Commission with a view to adopting European regulations on forced labour as soon as possible. We need to have European legal frameworks to eliminate forced labour on the one hand and to ban the import of goods from forced labour on the other. Such frameworks should strengthen the responsible conduct of companies and protect those already involved. This is a priority issue on which we ourselves have adopted robust national provisions, particularly in the context of the March 2017 Potier Act on the duty of vigilance of parent and donor companies. Indeed, for several years now, France has been pioneering in its efforts to strengthen the legislative framework governing the responsible conduct of enterprises, particularly with regard to forced labour. This is the purpose of the law of March 2017, which I have just mentioned: it aims to identify the risks associated with business activities and their value chain, in order to prevent serious violations of fundamental rights and the environment. It requires undertakings to draw up, in relevant cases, a vigilance plan included in their management report. To that end, we are carrying out awareness-raising activities to ensure that the private sector takes its share of responsibility in the fight against forced labour. Last October, together with Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Inclusion, and Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Children and Families, I launched a national acceleration strategy to eliminate child labour, forced labour, human trafficking and contemporary slavery in France and around the world. It aims to increase France's efforts to achieve the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goal 8.7 (SDG 8.7), which includes the elimination of forced labour by 2030. At the same time, the Government is also vigilant in the area of financing for development. In particular, we challenge any financing, including through development banks, of projects that could contribute to forced labour or repression, particularly in the Xinjiang region. The Government has also intervened on several occasions with the Chinese authorities to report individual cases, in particular concerning relatives of French nationals who are victims of repression. Finally, in our national territory – I know that this is a concern for many of you – the French authorities are very attentive to respect for the rights of the Uighurs established in France, as well as of all those present in our territory, whether they are French or foreign nationals. In particular, in view of the difficulties that may be encountered by Uighurs in renewing their official Chinese documents, the French authorities have taken the necessary steps to take this situation into account when processing their requests for their stay in France, but also, more generally, to prevent situations which may lead to a violation of their fundamental rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of the human rights violations committed in Xinjiang against Muslim minorities refers to a qualification that is primarily a matter for the courts, in particular with regard to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide of 9 December 1948. You will acknowledge that it is not for the Government to express its views on the legal characterization of the situation. We therefore rely on the wisdom of parliamentarians, so that they may express themselves freely, in accordance with the principle of separation of powers, in order to determine whether or not the adoption of this motion for a resolution is appropriate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] France will continue to consistently support the demanding dialogue with China on respect for human rights, particularly in Xinjiang, calling in particular on China to ratify the United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. We will also continue to make a continuing commitment to the achievement of the European human rights goals in China, particularly in Xinjiang, including from a trade policy perspective. We will remain fully mobilized in international forums in order to uphold the universal and inalienable nature of human rights and to urge China to respect these fundamental freedoms, in accordance with its obligations under national and international law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u106	In explanation of vote, I call Mr Olivier Faure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u107	I would just like, after hearing each other, especially those who have expressed certain nuances, to recall the five criteria for defining genocide. The first is the murder of members of a group; the second, the violation of the physical or mental integrity of members of the group; the third, subjecting the group to conditions of existence which must lead to its total or partial physical destruction; the fourth, the introduction of measures to prevent births within the group; and the fifth, the transfer of children from the group to other groups. The existence of only one of these criteria is sufficient to define genocide. In this case, as both have said, all these criteria have been documented and there is no doubt that genocide exists. I understand that some of our colleagues are telling us, as the Government has just done, that we are not a tribunal. That's right! But who, here, can seriously believe that the International Criminal Court, which does not have the opportunity to try a State – it can judge only individuals – will be able, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, to deal with the case of Xi Jinping and his cadres, who perpetrate genocide in Xinjiang? No one, especially since China, a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, has the right to veto it, which prohibits any possibility of doing so. [[Applause on the SOC benches, as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] Therefore, the only way to act is to do it here, as other parliaments have done, since – as has been said – seven parliaments of great democracies have chosen to recognize genocide. I have heard the minister delegate express his benevolence and appeal to the wisdom of Parliament. To do a work of wisdom is to carry out a political act which tells the rest of the world that we, the French, take note of the fact that a martyred people are currently living a tragedy and that this tragedy bears a name, that of genocide. That is why the Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution it has tabled.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u108	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u109	As I said in the general debate, it is time for our House to send a strong message to China, which is in keeping with Parliament's votes of our European neighbours. It must be accompanied by a strong position by France on the investment agreement between China and the European Union, which must not agree to continue discussions until full transparency is achieved on what is happening in Xinjiang. This message must also be sent to multinational companies, which must not exonerate themselves from their responsibilities, and to our citizens. They must be alerted to what is happening, which is documented by NGOs, journalists and survivors, as our colleagues in the Socialist and Related Group have said, and I thank them for putting this motion for a resolution on the agenda. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] We are talking about partial destruction of an ethnic group, horrors, rapes, slavery, sterilization. As parliamentarians, we have to say: France must not remain silent, it is our responsibility. We will, of course, vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u110	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u111	We have noted your reservations, Minister Delegate, and we keep in mind your speeches, as well as those of the President of the Republic and some of you. These speeches rightly strongly condemn the acts that are being committed in Xinjiang. However, at some point, we have to leave the declaratory and move from speeches to deeds. To do this, we must find the culprits, arrest them, judge them and condemn them. This will obviously not happen in China! This could have happened in France, assuming that the culprits set foot on French soil – except that the 2008 law, adopted under Nicolas Sarkozy's presidency, provided for four criteria, which function as blocking locks to prevent us from judging here those alleged to be guilty of a crime against humanity or a crime of genocide. Since this crime is not recognized by China, which is not a signatory to the Treaty of Rome establishing the International Criminal Court in 2002, we will not be able to judge them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u112	Vote on the motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u113	France is therefore a criminal paradise for those accused of crimes against humanity and genocide.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u114	Vote on the motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u115	[[Mrs Cécile Untermaier applauds]] That is why, Minister Delegate, I propose that instead of referring to the wisdom of the assembly, you immediately announce that this 2008 law will be reviewed and that the four locks I have mentioned will be removed, so that crimes against humanity and crimes of genocide against all peoples and countries can be properly judged in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u116	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u117	This morning, we have an appointment with history, I dare say without emphasis or grandioseness. All of us Members of the Republican Group here are living in this way: this is a moment when responsibility and freedom are at stake. In our soul and conscience, we want officially, solemnly, with force, conviction and passion, to denounce the atrocities, persecutions, violations of human rights, crimes against humanity and genocidal violence perpetrated by the Beijing regime, by the People's Republic of China, against the Uighur and Muslim populations of Xinjiang province. As I announced in the general debate, the Members of my group will vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u118	That's a clear position!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u119	[[Mr. Guillaume Garot applauds]] We will never be able to say that we did not know, we will never be able to turn our eyes away or pretend that we have not been sufficiently informed. The exciting legal and semantic debates on the notion of genocide should not obscure the urgent need to mobilize, to break out of the cowardice of silence and complacency, and to denounce the dramatic fate reserved for Uighur populations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and SOC groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We will therefore vote for the resolution, as well as the recommendations and the paths it proposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u120	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u121	We are here in this high place of the National Assembly – responsible for the history of the Enlightenment, the spirit of science, the arts and the letters enlightening humanity in its great march towards respect for the inviolability of the person and the emancipation of man – in an emergency situation. Again, it is up to us to declare human rights, this humanism of vigilance, in relation to these fundamental rights, civil and political rights, according to a United Nations definition to which China has acceded. Unacceptable practices of systematized, instrumentalized and genocidal violation of the integrity and human dignity of the Uighurs cannot be killed. The absolute freedom of conscience to which we are particularly attached and our duty to watch over this humanism of commitment and respect for human rights oblige us. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and SOC groups, as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] Here and now, we write the story with a calamity whose ink has dried. There, this story screams with tortured bodies and shed blood. Because the world will be destroyed not by those who do evil but by those who look without saying anything, we say, here and now, with strength and vigour: will sound again the trumpets of the fame of the great march of man. We will vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u122	Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u123	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome the existence of this debate on the cause of the Uighurs, a people that, we have said, is undergoing a massacre of unprecedented violence...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u124	Genocide!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u125	Let's name things!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u126	... and crimes against abject and unacceptable humanity. It was time for us to have this debate, as we should have had one against other similar crimes – I am thinking in particular of the genocide that took place in Rwanda. If there had been a debate and the adoption of a resolution between 1990 and 1994 on the genocidal risk in Rwanda, the genocide might not have taken place.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u127	It's not knowing what happened!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u128	It is therefore very important that this debate be held and that the word of our House be able to express itself strongly. Without wishing to argue about genocide, I stress that the issue is not only legal, it is eminently political. The five criteria listed by Olivier Faure can also characterize crimes against humanity. The question arises at another level which concerns...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u129	You're not always as obsessed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u130	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you, could we have solemnity and a debate that is not...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u131	Please, let's leave Mrs. Autain. Go on, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u132	Could we get out of the alternative: recognition of genocide or negation of what is happening. Otherwise, there is no need to debate. Let us have a serious parliamentary debate on a serious subject. [[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] With the greatest solemnity, I mean here two things. First, this debate will continue on the precise word genocide in the scientific community. Secondly, I see colleagues ready to vote on a motion for a resolution which refers to genocide and crimes against humanity, but which will let their government continue to trade and tea with those who commit these crimes. I want to point...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u133	Please, let's listen to Mrs. Autain until the end of her speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u134	In a very calm and precise way, I mean that the Uighurs indeed need the symbolic recognition that we will bring to them, but also that, in order to defend their cause, we have an urgent need...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u135	It's rowing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...to impose strong acts at the top of the state. I would like to see a correlation between words and actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u137	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u138	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] At this very moment, a million people are locked up in a large country that must also look at the situation with responsibility. It is our honour not to seek successive coherences, which would vary depending on the moment. It is our honour not to try to move our responsibility: it is here in the House of the National Assembly that we must take all our responsibility. [[Ms Clémentine Autain exclaimed]] It is not a question of denouncing a State as a whole or pointing a finger at it. Our honour is to send the following message: we consider it unbearable and unacceptable that hundreds of thousands, millions of women, men and children be enslaved because they are different, have a different religion. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens and SOC groups]] [[Same movements]] What is happening at the heart of a part of the world is simply unbearable. My group's honour will be to vote on the resolution, not because it would be perfect in legal terms, but because it delivers a political message. Here, in the heart of the Republic, we assume to deliver political messages. Thank you to Raphaël Glucksmann and the Socialist Group for initiating this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u139	I shall put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u140	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 175 Number of votes cast 170 Absolute majority 86 For adoption 169 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u141	The next item is the debate on the proposal for an emergency law to combat medical desertification (No 4784, 4895).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u142	Mr Guillaume Garot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u143	For years we have been a few, on several benches, drawing the alarm signal regarding medical desertification. For years, we have been alerting ourselves to this major injustice: no longer have a doctor near home. Our proposals have been rejected for years, rejected even before they were tried, because they push square meadows and conservatism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u144	It's been four years; Five years ago, you were in business!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u145	And yet, reality is there. For 8 million French and French, the situation is no longer bearable: no treating doctor or even no doctor at all; months and months to make an appointment with a specialist; whole departments without certain practitioners, such as gynaecologists or pediatricians; and at the end of the chain, emergencies that crack under pressure from patients who no longer have any choice to treat themselves. In a country where the right to health has constitutional value, the urgency is growing, because the solutions implemented so far have not produced the expected results.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u146	This is a terrible failure – and, I am well aware, a collective failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u148	Of course, it would have been necessary to take preventive action decades earlier, in order to avoid the weakening of medical demography as it did. But we – you have – let ourselves be created, there concentrations of doctors, there medical deserts. Thus, inequalities have widened between the French, to such an extent that there are now three times as many general practitioners per capita in the Hautes-Alpes or Paris as in the Eure or Eure-et-Loir. The situation is even worse for specialists: in the less well-equipped areas, as in Mayenne, it takes on average six months to get an appointment with a conventional ophthalmologist sector 1,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u149	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u150	... whereas, as I have seen myself, two hours is enough to find one in Paris. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] So, what can we do? I do not claim to have a miracle solution: everyone knows that it is a combination of answers that we will have to bring. But we also know, because we see it, that the incentives are not up to the problems. All those that have been taken, still recently, as useful as they are – such as the end of the numerus clausus or the creation of the territorial occupational health communities (CPTS) – will produce effects, as you know, only the day after. However, there is an urgent need now and the solutions must be quick. We need to go further than one-off measures: finally, looking at it well, it is the contract between the nation and the doctors that we need to recast. I recall that it is still the nation that finances medical studies, which are free for future doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u151	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u152	It is true that the interns do a lot for the hospital without being properly paid, but I would like to point out that it is the nation, again, that guarantees the incomes of doctors, thanks to the contributions of the French to the health insurance. So what would be shocking to propose that they gather around a table to determine how to organize, in the most harmonious way possible, their distribution across the country? This regulation – the word must not scare –...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u153	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u154	... already applies to pharmacists, and it works. Let us therefore give ourselves the means to ensure that every Frenchman has access to a doctor near his home. I'm talking about regulation, because I see it as a key lever for success. The policy that I defend on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group members is thus based on three pillars. The first is to introduce a selective agreement, as provided for in Article 1 of the proposed law: it is not to allow a doctor to settle in an area with sufficient medical presence, which would at least stop the worsening of inequalities. I recall that this regulatory mechanism already exists for other health professionals such as physiotherapists, nurses, or midwives. It is also in force in other countries such as Austria, Denmark, Germany, Norway and Quebec. Secondly, in order to ensure a medical presence throughout the territory, we propose, in Article 2, to apply to young doctors an obligation to exercise and to be present in the under-funded areas, for three years – the last year of boarding and the first two years after graduation. Of course, in this context, flexible forms will have to be devised to enable young doctors to exercise in accordance with their expectations, such as working in groups or having access to the technical trays of hospitals. A wide variety of statutes can therefore be granted to them, depending on whether they wish to become a collaborator, to become a salarier, or to practice a mixed exercise combining work in the hospital and in the office. And since it is a new contract that we intend to propose, all questions will have to be put on the table, such as the remuneration of interns or medical assistants. It is important to stress that this solution would be intended to apply temporarily, in particular for the next eight years. We know that it is during this period that we will be confronted with the medical demographics. It is therefore now that we must find solutions, so that medical doctors and young doctors can practice their art where they are needed, that is, where the patients are waiting for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u155	It's common sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u156	Finally, I shall devote a few moments to the question of medical studies, which must be the third pillar of our action. Everyone noted that one of the main criteria for the establishment of professionals remains their attachment to a territory: in general, one wishes to work where one lives, where one was born and where one grew up. We also know that many young people, especially in rural and popular areas, do not want to pursue a medical career, because studies are long and expensive and they fear that their families will not be able to accompany them for the long term. I will propose, by way of an amendment, to create, from high school onwards, the conditions for better access to medical studies, by granting certain pupils an annual grant in return for which the young graduate would commit himself to settle in his department or region of origin, or in another under-funded area. To those who are disturbed by this bill, I reply: exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u157	Inefficient measures, especially!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u158	[[Applause on the SOC benches. – MM. Yannick Favennec-Becot and Thierry Benoit also applaud]] It is up to us, legislators, to change the rules in order to remain faithful to this great idea emanating from the National Council of Resistance: health for all. We are elected to find solutions now, not tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, to fight a very dangerous sense of abandonment for our democracy and to keep the republican promise of equal access to health. Today, I propose that you put an initial stop to medical desertification. Many French people look at us and rely on us. So let us be brave and, above all, let us live up to our responsibilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u159	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u160	We are here to discuss the proposal for an emergency law against medical desertification, presented by Mr Guillaume Garot as part of the day reserved for the Socialist and related groups. This text deals with an essential issue, which does not embarrass us in any way and which we have already had the opportunity to debate on a number of occasions, as you yourself have pointed out. Last December, for example, we were looking at the proposal for a law on health accessible to all and against medical desertification. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] We know how concerned our fellow citizens are about this issue. Everyone here shares this concern, because it is about republican equality and the promise made to every Frenchman to be able to access quality care everywhere. The question of medical demography – because that is what this is all about – is not new, even though some are trying to rediscover it in the light of the health crisis that we have been going through for almost two years and which increases the tensions to which the health system is subjected. In truth, the difficulties associated with medical demography have their origin in decisions – errations, I should say – of public policy that have settled down for several decades. As such, answers can only be provided in the long term: unfortunately – and this is not an admission of impotence – immediate solutions do not exist and we must not afford words. The Government and the majority took up this issue from the beginning of the quinquennium with a view to providing structural responses to this major challenge. Several important milestones deserve to be recalled, be it the plan to strengthen territorial access to care, presented in 2017, the My Health 2022 strategy adopted in 2018, or finally the Ségur de la santé, declined since 2020. Among the decisive actions of the Government, I will recall the deletion of the numerus clausus and the first year common to health studies (PACES), which you mentioned. These major reforms, of which I recall that no other government had the courage to engage them, will enable more health professionals to be trained and thus provide a structural response to the shortage of doctors that we suffer after decades of immobilization. For it must be said: if the suppression of the numerus clausus is a reality, it has long been a scarecrow and even a taboo, while it was the key to increasing the number of doctors. We have therefore reformed health studies and shaken a system which, not content with seeing beautiful vocations shattered on multiple-choice questionnaires (MCQs), mainly mortgaged our chances of seriously fighting against medical deserts. From now on, there are concrete prospects: the number of health professionals trained will increase by 15% between 2021 and 2025. In the medical field alone, the number of students admitted in the second year increased by 30%, from 8,000 in 2017 to more than 10500 this year. But, as you know, ten years are needed to train a doctor capable of caring for the population. To respond now to the aspirations of young doctors and to facilitate their installation, especially in subdenses, we have therefore strongly supported the development of coordinated modes of exercise and collective structures. This effort allows for the identification of nearly 1900 multi-professional health homes in operation and more than 300 ongoing projects; more than 2200 health centres, including 450 multi-professional centres; and about 700 projects of territorial occupational health communities. It must be said and said again: the future of medicine is collective. Young health professionals are not wrong about this, as they are plebisciteing this mode of exercise. Another challenge is to introduce young people to the variety of forms of exercise that are possible. That is why, at the end of December, we issued two decrees to simplify access to the Master's degree and to increase the number of general practitioners welcoming health students, particularly in under-density areas. This effort will continue and be scaled up in the coming months, in collaboration with regional health agencies (RHAs) and universities. For your perfect information, I would remind you that 45% of interns do at least one internship in an under-dense area. It seems to me important to have this fact in mind. Beyond outpatient care, community hospitals are another important element of our strategy to provide primary care across the country. We have thus redefined the missions of these structures and stabilized their funding in order to strengthen them, to strengthen the commitment of health professionals to participate in them and to make them a real link between liberal doctors and other hospital and medical-social structures. In addition, in order to free up valuable medical time, we have planned to create 4000 posts of medical assistants in all territories. More than 2000 contracts have already been signed, allowing treating doctors to take care of more than 350,000 additional patients, more than half of whom in areas of tension. As part of the My Health 2022 strategy, we have also planned to recruit 400 general practitioners in the less well-equipped areas – 240 positions are already filled or will be filled very soon. We have also supported the development of telemedicine throughout the health crisis. Digital health is no longer a vaguely futuristic and ill-defined slogan or promise, it is now a reality in the daily lives of healthcare professionals and our fellow citizens. We passed almost overnight from a few hundred to 1 million teleconsultations a week during the crisis. We hope that this practice will continue because it also contributes to improved access to care in all territories. I will also recall the commitments we have made to improve the careers of healthcare workers in the health and medico-social sectors, to the tune of more than EUR 10 billion, and support for the investment of almost EUR 20 billion in the Ségur de la santé. This effort, unprecedented in the recent history of health policy, will go a long way towards strengthening the attractiveness of care professions, sustaining and modernizing facilities and equipment, and relieving professionals by improving the quality of life at work. In this area, the efforts made during the quinquennium far exceed the volume of what was done, at the same time as the alternations, between 2007 and 2017. In total, more than 3,000 institutions will be supported financially, of which more than 50% are small institutions. This considerable commitment to health and access to care continues to unfold in all territories. Access to care is also one of the key elements of the 2022 Social Security Financing Act that you recently adopted. In particular, it provides for fluidisation of the visual sector, progress in direct access to new professions and generalisation of the management of tele-surveillance by health insurance. I will also mention the opening of the treatment of psychological sessions by health insurance, to improve access to the treatment of mild to moderate psychological disorders in all territories. The decree specifying the conditions for the application of this measure will be published shortly. All these new advances, which you recently voted for, are aimed at improving access to care. I come to this bill. While it provides an opportunity to discuss a major issue, the Government considers that it does not provide the right solutions to address it in the current circumstances. You are proposing, in order to solve the problem of medical deserts, to call into question the freedom of installation of doctors by providing for a selective arrangement making the installation of a new doctor in a so-called over-dense zone subject to the departure of one of his colleagues. I acknowledge the consistency on this issue, Mr rapporteur, since you had presented a similar proposal in 2018, which had already been rejected by this House – if my memory is good, you had already presented one under the previous legislature. You are proposing measures to limit installation in areas characterized as overdenses. Allow me to state the following: in the current context, there is no over-dense zone in France, but there is a global desertification with territories much more tense than others – and even, let's say, "sub-denses" areas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u161	That's not what territorial indicators say!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u162	All territories are indeed in tension, which justifies the Government's action since 2017 which I have reminded you. Medical density is decreasing globally in the territory. The best way to remedy this is first and foremost the removal of the numerus clausus. As you will understand, we share the concern to ensure access to care in all territories. However, we differ on the proposed solutions. The problem of access to care will not be resolved in one day by a sudden change in the rules applicable to medical professions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille also applauds]] We are convinced, on the contrary, that it is by opting for ambitious and pragmatic measures, accompanied by means commensurate with the stakes, that we can make a useful contribution on this subject. And it is well guided by these principles that the Government will continue its determined efforts to transform the health system and to meet the strong expectations of our fellow citizens, with a constant concern to ensure that everyone is provided with quality and accessible care, regardless of their place of life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u163	Mr Joël Aviragnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u164	Once again under this legislature, we are considering a proposal for a law on medical desertification. Once again under this legislature,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u165	Don't forget the previous one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u166	...we are alerting the Government to the French call for relief. I hope I can tell them tonight that he hasn't, once again, abandoned them. However, although I am optimistic in nature, I am afraid that my hopes – and their hopes – will be dashed. I am referring in particular to the hopes of the 7.4 million French who have the misfortune to live in a commune where access to a general practitioner is limited, but also to all those field doctors who are dying to care for the too many patients they are in charge of. Health, along with purchasing power, remains one of the main concerns of the French. Yet, health inequalities continue to grow, as some figures show, personally, shock me and make me blush. Thirteen departments have no gynecologist. In eight departments, ophthalmologists cannot take new patients due to lack of availability. The density of psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants varies from one to forty depending on the department. In rural areas, 22 per cent of the population does not have access to an emergency service within 30 minutes. You say, Madam Deputy Minister, that there is no superdense zone. Paris has twice as many general practitioners per 100,000 inhabitants as its poorer neighbouring department, the Seine-Saint-Denis. Toulouse has twice as many generalists and three times as many specialists as the rest of the department – which is not the most affected in France. It is worth recalling here that equitable access to care is a right guaranteed by the Constitution. Today, however, we are far from the point of view. These figures show us that there are many medical deserts in France. It is therefore urgent to take action. This is the subject of our colleague Guillaume Garot's bill, which brings concrete solutions to this crisis. It plans to introduce a selective agreement, which involves, on the one hand, forcing young medical students to work, from the beginning of their careers, where there is a shortage of doctors, and, on the other hand, discouraging doctors from settling in the already well-equipped territories. This dual mechanism would respond to the urgency. The citizens of the subdenses, who are plebiscite these measures, have understood this well. Our colleagues in the majority may not be aware of this or, more likely, do not want to face reality. I saw this again in committee, when they voted as one man to delete the two sections of this bill. Their arguments are always the same. First of all, selective agreements would not encourage doctors to actually move to a sub-dense zone because doctors would cheat by moving to the edge of a zone. This is already the case with the incentive system that prevails today. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Secondly, it would not be human to force doctors – the liberal profession – to practice in a specific place. But is it more humane to leave 6 million of our fellow citizens out of our health care system? I'm telling you, no. Our country cannot accept that there are second-class citizens. Another argument, the favourite of the Minister of Solidarity and Health: the abolition of the numerus clausus will solve everything. That's not true. In the current situation, if we do not limit the number of doctors in the overdoing areas, the new doctors will continue to populate large cities or seaside resorts. In Occitanie, they are all concentrated in Toulouse and Montpellier, on the edge of the Mediterranean. As usual, the Government is subject to procrastination – obviously dressed in misleading communication. Does he claim to settle the situation in the decades to come thanks to the numerus clausus? We're waiting. Consecrating women's rights, great cause of the quinquennium? We're waiting. Preparing for the future by pursuing an ambitious environmental policy? We're waiting. Helping caregivers and French in the front line during the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u167	We did it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u168	One more time, we're waiting. Provide dignified teaching conditions for our children and their teachers? Here, too, we're waiting. No, we don't rule with a wet finger. We must, first of all, anticipate and, if it is too late, act. The French are asking you to act now – not in five years, not in ten years. They need general practitioners in sufficient quantity now; They need specialists now. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Sometimes the role of the State is to coerce for the common good, that of all citizens. This is the case here because, as I say, there is an urgent need. Our compatriots in rural areas are watching us. Let us rise to the challenge by voting on this proposal for an emergency law to combat medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u169	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u170	The review of this text raises a growing concern in our territories: the shortage of doctors. We have all been questioned about this, little or no. We know the difficulties some retired generalists face in finding a replacement. The evolution of demography is leading to a deterioration in the next few years. We have had this debate on several occasions in the Chamber and the fact that it is again in the programme shows that the current solutions are not sufficient. Despite the measures adopted during the five-year period and under the previous ones, medical desertification is worsening. It extends to all territories and specialties, questioning the constitutional principle of equal access to care. Since 2012, the population affected by a medical desert has increased from 7 per cent to 11 per cent of the French. Every day, we have to deal with a paradox: an increasing number of professionals are registered with the Medical Council, yet the medical time available is decreasing. We make these observations on all benches. We need to tackle these inequalities more proactively. Incentive policies, in particular financial incentives for settlement, which have prevailed in recent years, have proved insufficient to reverse the trend. However, there has been a great deal of community involvement. In some situations, these measures have fueled unimaginable rivalries between communities that want to attract practitioners to their territory. We recognize, however, that in the course of this quinquennium an indispensable step has been taken: the raising of the numerus clausus. But the results of this reform will not be seen for many years when the urgency is there today, especially since the ministerial decree published last September foresees a general increase in students of 20%, it is only 1 or 2 % in certain academies such as Poitiers or Rouen. The increase in the number of staff alone will not be sufficient to resolve the unequal distribution. This is why the requirement for interns and young graduates to be present in subdenses is a path to be explored. We know that 75% of general practitioners settle in the region where they have defended their thesis. We must therefore be able to create a desire to move elsewhere. This requires the discovery of the territories. The other major provision of this text is, of course, selective agreement in the event of failure of a major treaty negotiation. Other medical professions, such as nurses, have shown that through dialogue, access to care can be promoted without compromising the freedom of settlement. For doctors too, it is possible to find a balance. Do not seek to oppose in vain freedom of installation on one side and protection of health on the other. Let's put everyone around a table and talk about finding new balances, a vital goal for both patients who are exposed to significant loss of opportunity and our health care professionals who are faced with a huge workload. Beyond these emergency measures, which we must look at, we must really grasp the evolution at work in our society and recognize that the profession of doctor has changed. Young generations are increasingly turning to wage earners. As a result, we can no longer apply yesterday's revenue, we need to find more suitable forms of work today. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the problem of medical desertification is not limited to the difficulty of accessing a doctor. Social and territorial inequalities need to be addressed more broadly, as we know that giving up care is more common to poor people. The fight against medical desertification is therefore an issue of public health but also of social cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u171	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u172	This leads us to reflect on the society we want and the means we are ready to mobilize to protect and sustain our social model. No, we have not tried everything to combat medical desertification. Reticence exists. In fact, we have had extensive discussions in the Liberties and Territories Group on this issue, with some Members remaining committed to complete freedom of establishment. However, the majority of our group is in the spirit of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u173	Mr Yannick Favennec-Becot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u174	[[The rapporteur and Mrs Cécile Untermaier applaud]] The right to health is one of the strongest aspirations of our citizens; This is all the more so in this period of health crisis. That is why I would like to thank my Mayen colleague Guillaume Garot for including this bill on medical deserts on the Assembly's agenda. This text echoes the many other proposals for legislation on the subject: I am thinking in particular of that of our colleague Thierry Benoit. I have been defending, with my group, a constant position for several years, namely the introduction of regulatory measures in the installation of doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u175	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u176	... because 8 million of our compatriots, I said 8 million, would live in a medical desert, would be very far from any offer of care and thus excluded from health protection, a principle guaranteed by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u177	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u178	We all share the same observation, we all regret the situation and we are all aware of the peril and urgency. This has led the Government to replace the numerus clausus with a numerus apertus, which in theory should increase the number of doctors trained in just under ten years. On the other hand, for today, for tomorrow, for next year and even for five years... nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u180	And yet, medical desertification also has an impact on the organization of hospital care, as we can see again this week with the temporary closure of certain services at the Mayenne hospital, after the closure of the emergency department at night at the Laval hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u181	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u182	That is why, without further delay, we need to reverse a model that no longer allows people to be properly cared for.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u183	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u184	We must take our responsibilities and dare to innovate because it is time to supervise the installation of doctors in order to ensure a better distribution of the provision of care throughout the territory, including overseas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u186	Madam Minister Delegate, if we share the Government's objective of training more doctors and consider that this will solve part of the problem, this element of response cannot be exclusive since never so many doctors have been enrolled in the Order of Physicians. This proves that the distribution of these within the territory is the core of the problem. For years, it has been a matter of reconciling the physician's freedom of installation with the question of the distribution of the offer of care, and the incentive mechanisms have accumulated sometimes, it must be recognized, resulting in perverse effects,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u187	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u188	... including unhealthy competition between territories to attract doctors:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u190	... construction of health homes, provision of land, administrative support, etc.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u191	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u192	The incentive must be closely linked to regulation so that the doctor's freedom of installation is not placed above the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u193	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u194	Of course, medical students, we know, work a lot and are very low paid; Of course, doctors do not count their hours; Of course, our liberal model has long been virtuous. But the protection of the health of our fellow citizens cannot be undermined by the right to the installation of doctors. The right balance can be achieved through various devices. We will therefore propose, at the initiative of Thierry Benoit, the introduction of an internship obligation in under-funded areas for medical students.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u195	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u196	[[Thierry Benoit and Cécile Untermaier applaud]] Such a measure, together with an obligation to set up under-funded areas at the beginning of a career, would make these territories known to doctors. We will also propose the introduction of one year's notice for any doctor wishing to leave an underserved territory. How many territories have found themselves without a doctor in just one month, leaving hundreds of patients on the tile! These situations are not acceptable. Such notice would allow the authorities to organize themselves to welcome a new doctor We are also in favour of selective agreements because it is not a question of impoverishing the provision of care in urban centres, but only of renewing the number of agreements: it is only a question of directing young doctors to territories where there is a shortage of doctors. Aware of the urgency and seriousness of the disparity in the provision of care in our country, convinced of the need to show genuine political courage, I hope that each and every one of us in this House will address this bill by ignoring any partisan logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u197	Overtaking!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u198	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I and SOC groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Our vote must reflect the meaning we have as elected representatives, but also as citizens, of the effectiveness of the right to health, to access to care, in each of our territories. We all know that a large majority of French and French people suffer daily from not having a doctor and our public health is degraded. That is why the IDU and independent group will vote for this text to make the right to health a reality in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u199	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u200	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u201	For the second time in a few weeks, our assembly is considering a bill to combat medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u202	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u203	The Group of the European People's Party shares, of course, the rapporteur's ambition to combat this scourge more effectively, which now spares no territory, whether rural or urban: I think I can say that we are all confronted, in our constituencies, with citizens who fail to find a generalist near their homes or appointments with a specialist. This is a major concern of the French, who have strong emotional ties with their family doctor and who often live in pain the retirement of the generalist who accompanied them for a lifetime. We are, therefore, well, as the Deputy Minister has pointed out, faced with a long-standing social problem. We are paying today the price of past wanderings, as public policy wanderings of several decades have led to the alarming scarcity of the number of treating doctors in our country. Because it is necessary to be clear: yes, we have a problem of medical demography in France; Yes, city medicine has lost its attractiveness. In the face of this, we have two main levers of action. The first is to structurally increase the number of physicians in practice. This is what we did in 2019 by deleting the numerus clausus in order to replace it with a numberrus apertus that sets territorialized training objectives for five years. I remind you that in 1971, when the numerus clausus was introduced, the aim was then to avoid the overabundance of doctors...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u205	...to better control health spending. This machine to melt the numbers of successive promotions worked terribly well, and we were slow to realize that we were running into disaster. The removal of the numerus clausus was urgent and, as a result of this decision, more than 10,000 students are currently enrolled in the second year. But it is true that it will only bear fruit for a long time because of the length of medical studies. The second lever of action is to strengthen the attractiveness of the liberal offer because the figures are of particular concern: only about 10% of interns choose general medicine. The disaffection of the students for this journey must challenge us, but I do not believe that the constraint is the solution. I would like to point out that, beyond the financial incentives which we have seen well, much has already been done by the majority to make city medicine more attractive, particularly with the law on the organisation and transformation of the health system: I am thinking first of the development of coordinated exercise through the territorial occupational health communities and health homes, but also of the recruitment of medical assistants to free up time for consultation or, again, the minister delegate reminded her, of the compulsory internship for medical students. I stress this last point because it is essential to bring the formation of subdenses closer together in order to arouse the desire of future doctors to settle in these territories. We have also acted on the development of telemedicine because the use of digital tools is fully part of the very short-term response in the most neglected territories. Finally, increasing the skills of other health professionals, whether nurses, pharmacists or midwives, should ensure continuity of care in the community. All these measures provide concrete solutions for many of our fellow citizens who live in the most underserved territories. But there is no miracle solution to the shortage of doctors. In this respect, I do not believe in the effectiveness of selective bargaining. Regulated settlement works only for occupations with a pool large enough to meet all of the territory's needs. There is no place in France where doctors are now too numerous. One would then withdraw from one to give to the other, in a kind of zero-sum game totally ineffective. Some doctors might even choose to practice out of agreement, thus creating a two-tiered medicine that runs counter to the principle of equality in access to care, a principle to which we are all firmly committed. Medical desertification is, of course, a major health problem, while at the same time the ageing of the population and the prevalence of chronic diseases are increasing. The rapporteur's objective is therefore highly commendable and we fully share his concerns. But forcing doctors to choose their place of business does not seem appropriate at the moment in view of the perverse effects that such a decision would have, especially since it would have no real positive impact on the most underserved territories. Consequently, the Group of the European People's Party will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u206	Ah, that sucks!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u207	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u208	"I see people who are in need of care all day long. I quickly look at their rheumat questions and then try to find out everything that hasn't been done due to a lack of follow-up. I have an 85-year-old patient with a very heavy treatment, who I'm trying to find a treating doctor, and I'm being thrown away everywhere. It's not tenable, she also pays her dues. When people don't find a treating doctor, they don't want to take care of themselves. Laure Artru, rheumatologist at Le Mans. "In our territory of 6,500 inhabitants, our three doctors all left in 2021 [...] Finally, the community of communes called on a head hunter to recruit a generalist. They managed to find one that arrived in November. But we only have him on the area. We're in the mountains. Castres is 45 minutes' drive away, Albi is one hour away, the nearest hospital is 50 minutes' drive away, the next Liberal doctor is half an hour away. Half of our population does not have a treating physician. One of the consequences is that these patients are not well reimbursed when they have to go to specialists. So people don't care for themselves. It's a health disaster announced! Sandrine Marchand, pharmacist in Tarn. In the Eure, the number of doctors increased from 174 to 160 per 100,000 inhabitants between 2017 and 2021, making it the last metropolitan department in terms of medical density. "When we see the overruns of fees and waiting times for Evreux's ophthalmos, it's more profitable to [have] fifteen days of waiting in the 78th to one year in Evreux, with an overrun [of fees] crazy," says a web user who takes his car to see his generalist and ophthalmologist in the Yvelines. Evidence of this type is numerous and similar because medical deserts have multiplied in recent years: in 2018, 7.4 million people, or more than one in ten inhabitants, lived in a commune where access to a general practitioner was limited, and this proportion has continued to grow; On average, it takes eleven days for these residents to get an appointment with the general practitioner and one hundred and eighty-nine days with the ophthalmo and again, provided the doctor accepts new patients, while 44% say they refuse them. This should not be seen as a bad will on the part of rural doctors in remote areas, but they and they try to compensate for desertification by trying to do the work for two. It should be added that the number of patients in the sub-dense area is 14% higher than elsewhere. This situation is due to the overall shortage of doctors – between 2012 and 2021, the medical density decreased further by 2.2%, from 325 to 318 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. A two-speed medicine has thus gradually settled: on the one hand, the city centres, some metropolises and attractive areas that are ever more concentrated in doctors; On the other hand, the peripheries, medium-sized towns and rural areas, where local medicine is being cut off at high speed V. A 2020 Senate report noted that the medical desert map embraces local economic and demographic dynamics and is very close to the yellow vest map. It should be noted, however, that even large urban centres are experiencing difficulties: "It is felt that this cannot happen here, but if we compare with population density, we immediately realize that there is a problem with the number of doctors. Just in my neighborhood, three generals retired in a short time. It's becoming the cata! Eléonor Halimi Mardoukh, a general practitioner in Paris, who, in addition to caring for his local patient, receives half of his consultations with people coming from the medical deserts. It is a fact that it is the popular classes that live in these territories that suffer the most from this situation, those territories where life expectancy is shortened, cancers are not detected, chronic diseases are settled and not monitored, and relief is too late. In the country of social security, health becomes a luxury product. For the past five years, however, the Government has not been up to the challenge – when its policy has not simply been counterproductive. The abolition of the numerus clausus will not solve the situation for about ten years, and the numerus apertus, in fact, does not decree: it is necessary to equip the universities and institutions that host the interns to open places and ensure the quality of the training. While emergency care is the only access to care for some, it is increasingly risky with the closure of many services. As many as 6 million people are forced to go because of the absence of a general practitioner, but the Government considers it appropriate to make them feel guilty and discourage them from doing so with the new emergency patient package (PPU). As for the financial incentives it offers to remedy medical deserts, this is an expensive route that has shown its ineffectiveness. In the face of this emergency situation, immediate measures, which are applicable as soon as possible, must be taken. Regulation is part of this, in line with the recommendations of the Court of Auditors' report of 2017. Many health professionals gathered within the Association of Citizens Against Medical Deserts are also in favour. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] In the opinion of the Members of the La France Group, our colleague's proposal for a law goes in the right direction, but in order to solve the structural problem, it is necessary to have large-scale means to recruit public doctors, to increase the capacity of the faculties, to mobilise liberal and hospital medicine, to reinvest in local hospitals and to develop medical cooperatives. This is the policy that we will implement once in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u209	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u210	Forty-five doctors in 2015, twenty-three today: this is the situation of the city of Istres, 50,000 inhabitants, in my constituency. In the face of this rapid deterioration, patients are worried and organized with the help of the municipality. At the national level, 11 per cent of the population is without a doctor, i.e. without follow-up, without this relationship of trust, and sometimes without care. Medical deserts are gaining ground – 8 million people are affected in our country – and social and territorial health inequalities are increasing. Unfortunately, the measures taken demonstrated their inadequacy. Public authorities have a duty to act to ensure equal access to care for all, and to do so requires a series of levers. We have supported the incentives, but we need a more voluntary strategy. On many occasions, proposals have been put on the table: again recently, in December, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left had tabled a text on the subject. In such a situation of shortage and inequality, it is necessary to resort to regulation: selective agreement, allowing a new installation in an over-dense zone only in the event of the departure of a doctor; and the call to the services of interns, invited to practice for a given time in the less well-equipped areas, as part of a better recognition of their training, which would go hand in hand. These proposals raise four objections. The first is to say that it is a matter of establishing a regime of coercion. Ladies and gentlemen, coercion, with the multiplication of controls in everyday life, we are beginning to know what it is, and you do not hesitate to use it by justifying it by the crisis situation. However, we are in crisis from the point of view of access to doctors, and these are very reasonable arrangements. The second objection is to contest the fact that there are such great inequalities and over-density areas. She can't resist the experiment. Yes, there are inequalities in the distribution of physicians, as indicated in the studies of the Directorate of Research, Studies, Evaluation and Statistics (DREES). Rural areas, working-class neighbourhoods and medium-sized towns are particularly affected. The third objection is to point out the perverse effects of these measures and to assume that the adverse consequences would outweigh the benefits. These are specious arguments, especially since you propose, for your part, to do nothing more. We are convinced that if these measures can be insufficient, they would be beneficial. The fourth objection is more symbolic. In fact, you refuse to touch on the freedom of installation of doctors, out of ideological conviction, a conviction that links the freedom of installation to that of undertaking. However, this freedom runs counter to the right to health. The Constitution obliges the public authorities to act. Installed doctors crack in front of the influx of patients. Young doctors are concerned about the scale of the task and seek to reinvent their profession. A number of them are attracted by the collective exercise of medicine, sometimes by wage earners. For our part, we believe that the development of public, mutualist, non-profit health centres should be a focus of action, even if it cannot be the only answer to the problem. New levers will therefore have to be put in place. The answer to say that this is only a difficult time to pass and that it is urgent to wait for the possible beautification of 2030 is unbearable. It even seems that the majority understood it, unconsciously, since it is on the defensive, drawing up the list of choices that no one here challenges and gargaring himself for having removed the numerus clausus when no one had done it before – obviously, otherwise you could not have done it... For decades our group has been fighting the numerus clausus. Still, it would be necessary to blow up the lock of Parcoursup, to empower universities and not to embark on the path of a university of selection by money – it is already sufficiently unequal. Many young people would like to enter the medical and care professions, and they are prevented from doing so, while the needs will only increase. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] But that's not the point. You should not take the proposals of this text as challenges to your action, but as an opportunity to act. More and more voices are rising to demand new levers of action in the face of medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u211	Mrs Stéphanie Rist has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u212	If we agree with the need to combat medical desertification and, above all, inequalities in access to care, the solutions you are proposing do not seem to us to be the right ones. Of course, we want rapid measures, but above all effective measures. The selective agreement proposed in Article 1 would be a magical solution to remedy medical deserts. If we have to fight the shortage of doctors in France, it is by acting on all the levers of training and supporting the professionals that we will achieve this. To pretend to be magic solutions is to deceive our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u213	No, we propose concrete solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u214	Section 2 of your bill creates an exceptional obligation for young doctors to be present in underfunded areas during their last year of boarding and the next two years. But medical interns are not health professionals, they are professionals in training, whose exercise requires pedagogical support, in connection with an academic structure. The specialties of their choice are not available anywhere. Obliging our interns to practice in a specific place is forcing them not to take the training they need, sometimes impossible to receive in subdenses, where, in addition, the exercise is the most difficult because away from specialists and technical trays. This would inevitably lead to their disaffection for those areas where we need them so much. According to the latest data from the DREES, the underfunded areas have an average of 1.07 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, compared to 1.55 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants in the over-funded area, a difference of only 0.5 doctors. This shows that this measure would not improve local distribution, the problem being the overall shortage of doctors in France, and patients should be subject to the financial constraint of deconvention. I'm surprised you're proposing it. Finally, the devices submitted to us would result in a reduction in the number of candidates for the Liberal exercise, leading to a flight of future doctors to hospital practice, to the pharmaceutical industry or abroad. On the contrary, we must encourage young students to move towards the general medicine specialty that we need and which will be essential in the coming years in front of the wall of population ageing. We must also continue to transform the health system that we have been leading for the past five years: the increase in the number of medical students permitted by the end of the numerus clausus, and the measures that free up medical time. I am thinking of medical assistants who help doctors in their administrative tasks,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u215	They don't want it, doctors!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u216	... the development of advanced practices – we need to go even further in terms of direct access – or cooperation with pharmacists, physiotherapists and other health professionals, which allow doctors to free up time. Each patient must be able to obtain an effective and appropriate response to his or her need for health, in safety and with the necessary quality, without, however, requiring the involvement of a physician at each stage of his or her course of care. This bill therefore pursues a primary objective, which we share, that of improving access to care. However, as you have understood, we will prefer to take effective and motivating measures instead of basing on young students the weight of more than twenty years of absence of political decisions that have led to this difficult, sometimes dramatic, situation that many of our fellow citizens are experiencing on a daily basis. For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will propose amendments to delete the two articles of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u217	This isn't very consistent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u218	Mrs Marine Brenier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u219	The medical desert is defined as an area where the concentration of medical professionals and health facilities is 30% lower than the national average – a percentage weighted by the characteristics of the population, including its average age. The problem is not new, but the situation has deteriorated significantly since the beginning of this quinquennium. It is, moreover, often the subject of debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for allowing us once again to discuss it. Madam Deputy Minister, allow me to respond to your comments, as you believe that your majority cannot be the sole accountant of this situation. You're right, but for ten years now you've been in business, you could have considered mechanisms to prevent this phenomenon from growing further.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u220	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u221	No, health must not and cannot benefit from a budgetary perspective. Health is necessarily short-term in deficit, but this deficit is largely compensated over the medium and long term, through the prevention of the onset of chronic diseases or cancers. This logic has too often been the victim of small apothecary calculations, which have led the public authorities to lean on the number of doctors to train. Madam Deputy Minister, it is not the "super social security" you call for that will solve this problem. As we face an unprecedented health crisis, inequalities in access to care have increased. Even before this crisis, in 2018, almost 10 million French people were already estimated to live in an area where access to health is difficult. More than 7 million of our fellow citizens resided in a municipality where access to a generalist was limited, a figure which has been steadily increasing since 2012. However, it must be noted that this text, with its geographical approach to the subject, does not address all the issues at stake. You find the problem in rural and peri-urban areas. Statistics show that people living in rural areas live on average two years less than urban dwellers. However, according to a DREES study, a quarter of people with limited access to care do not live in rural areas. We must deal with the problem as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u222	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u223	Medical deserts have several structural causes: the numerus clausus, which has led to a lack of recruitment and an ageing of health professionals; the abandonment of several specialties by students, including general medicine, which is essential to the proper functioning of our health system; the changing mentality of new generations of doctors, who increasingly want to be able to reconcile work and private life, and no longer to practise alone. In fact, for a retired doctor to leave, it would take two to three to replace him. Freedom of establishment is the very essence of physician status, a story that takes place between doctors and health insurance. This freedom can only suffer when they are trained. Professionals and students don't want to touch it, rapporteur. The measures you propose would create a two-speed medicine and risk demobilizing future doctors. Moreover, the federations, councils and representatives of health professionals highlight priorities other than that of suppressing or conditioning the freedom of installation. It is essential to begin with the identification and evaluation of incentives for health professionals to move to sub-donored areas in order to enhance their effectiveness. These projects, such as health homes, medical workers or financial assistance for housing or installation, often at the initiative of local authorities, are examples of this. We must draw inspiration from it and multiply it in the territory. As such, we also need to rethink the organization of our regional health agencies. We need to ensure a better association of our communities in this governance. We could also, as Professor Philippe Juvin proposes, concentrate in the sub-edited areas the outpatient internship of first aid in supervised autonomy, carried out by students in the final year of general medicine, with the status of "junior doctor". [[The rapporteur smiles]] We need to free up medical time in the territories by allowing some health professionals to gain skills. Our candidate, Valérie Pécresse, proposes this especially for nurses and midwives, who will benefit from salary upgrading, more responsibilities and enhanced access to advanced practices. It is also necessary to unlock the numerus clausus and increase the number of traineeships. This will include the development of internships for interns in private hospitals, regardless of their status. Finally, and this is the flagship measure proposed by Valérie Pécresse in this matter,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u224	It's becoming a flyer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u225	That's enough! Mrs. Pecress's campaign has nothing to do here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u226	... we must ask the health insurance to provide for a regional allocation of "combatting health desertification" in order to affix the remuneration of health professionals according to their activity in the areas under stress. We are ready to provide concrete solutions to medical deserts, without changing the very essence of doctors' status, based on freedom of settlement. The Republican Group will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u227	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-20-O1131.u228	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for an emergency law to combat medical desertification; Discussion of the bill to increase the interprofessional minimum wage for growth and to open a national conference on wages; Discussion of the proposal for a law to combat the precariousness of accompanying students with disabilities and educational assistants; Discussion of the proposed law to reform the taxation of inheritance and donation rights. The meeting is adjourned.
