ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Public Policy Review and Control Committee (PEC) on the evaluation of public health prevention policies. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the rapporteurs of the EQF, the speakers of the groups, and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Régis Juanico, rapporteur of the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u2	The fight against sedentarity is a major health issue of the 21st century. The terms we use with Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe in our evaluation report on public health prevention policies are explicit: there is an urgent need to defuse what we call a "healthy time bomb". This report is an additional warning on the dangers of sedentaryness: the time spent lying or sitting, especially in front of the screens, for leisure activities, continues to grow in our lives. Together with the decline in physical activity, which is also exacerbated by the health crisis, sedentary behaviour has disastrous effects on the physical health of young people, but also on their sleep and diet. Including school time, the time spent sitting represents 55% of the day of primary school students and 75% when they reach 14-15 years of age. According to figures from the National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour (ANSES), published in November 2020, for 2016 – even before the health crisis – 66% of 11-17 year olds present a health risk of concern: they spend more than two hours a day in front of the screens and devote less than 60 minutes daily to physical activity. Cardiologist François Carré notes that a large number of children who drive to school in the morning with their parents barely walk about 50 steps before the 10 o'clock recess. Regular physical activity is vital for young people, who risk losing years of healthy life expectancy. That is why we unanimously supported last Tuesday, in the discussion of the bill strengthening the tools for managing the health crisis and amending the public health code, an amendment to exempt the 12-15 year-olds from the vaccination pass for sports activities. After age, overweight and obesity are the main risk factors for developing a severe form of covid-19. Between 75 and 85% of patients undergoing resuscitation have a body mass index greater than 25. For the past two years, as with barrier gestures and vaccination, the promotion of physical activity should have been at the heart of the messages of prevention of covid-19. I am thinking in particular of students, physically and psychologically weakened by successive confinements and distancial courses. They are suffering because of their isolation. The authorities should have offered them collective physical outdoor activities. Adapted physical activity is also a way to heal the sequelae of long covid faster. Beyond the pandemic, physical activity is a tremendous lever for preventing chronic diseases – cancers, type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, etc. Sedentarity accounts for 10% of premature deaths worldwide. Physical capacity is the first predictive factor for avoidable mortality. However, as a 2019 US study shows, it is enough to replace 30 minutes of daily sedentaryness with 30 minutes of physical activity, even of moderate intensity – for example, gardening – to reduce premature mortality by 17% and the risk of cardiovascular accidents by 30%. With more intense activity, the decrease in premature mortality increases to 35%. The fight against sedentary behaviour must be the priority, the guiding principle of public policies for prevention of public health at all ages of life. This report is a manifesto for the public authorities and aims to bring the French back on the move, through a more active way of life, with eighteen coherent recommendations. In addition to our proposal to make physical activity a major national cause of 2022 in the run-up to the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024, we make simple recommendations for the daily lives of the French. We invite them to stand up, stretch every half hour and focus on active modes of transport, especially walking and cycling. School and university must be able to anchor good habits from an early age through the promotion of physical and sports practice and health prevention. With regard to physical and sports education (EPS), we recommend, at this important time of dropping out of the sport of adolescence, to increase the number of compulsory EPS hours in high school from two to three and to offer, in higher education courses, a teaching unit free of physical and sporting activity. In addition, physical fitness tests must be made systematic by making them available at school in EPS courses, at university, at work, at retirement and in EPHAD. Finally, the prescription of adapted physical activity must be facilitated by taking over, through health insurance, specific consultations and the first prior sports and motivating medical check-ups, with sports-health homes playing a pivotal role in the reception, information and guidance of the public concerned. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The "As du Coeur" experiment, carried out by the association Azur sport santé among patients with cardiovascular diseases, which we mention in the report, showed that adapted physical activity devices, financed in part by health insurance, were responsible for 30% of direct savings in healthcare expenditure. It should be noted that cardiovascular treatments account for 10% of health expenditure, i.e. €18 billion. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the savings we could achieve by developing these devices! Hence my question, Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families: is the Government prepared to generalize such coverage through health insurance?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u3	Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, rapporteur of the Committee for the Evaluation and Monitoring of Public Policies, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u4	I welcome the initiative of the Socialist and Related Group to put this discussion on the agenda of our Assembly. It gives us the opportunity to take stock of the evaluation of public health prevention policies. Let's say it frankly, despite the efforts undertaken since 2017, the prevention revolution that was announced to us did not take place. Of course, it is not easy. Since the 2003 report of the General Inspectorate of Social Affairs (IGAS), various studies have highlighted the difficulties of governance, steering, financing and evaluation of prevention policy. These difficulties therefore do not date from yesterday. In addition to the structural problem, there are observations which we know well, but which it is always good to recall. The French population is ageing. The healthy life expectancy of our citizens is ten years lower than that of our European neighbours, especially the Swedes – ten years! Infectious diseases have been replaced by a growing number of chronic diseases and social and territorial inequalities in health have been highlighted by the health crisis. The revolution of prevention implies a reversal of certain logics. Since the time allocated to me for this intervention is inversely proportional to the scope of the subject, I shall limit myself to three important challenges. The first is the need to resolutely strengthen our efforts in primary prevention, which is a powerful lever for reducing social and territorial inequalities in health. This is precisely the purpose of the national public health plan, but I regret that the interdepartmental committee that piloted it has not met since 2019. Although we have faced a serious health crisis since then, it could have been the subject of a meeting of this committee. Primary prevention means more decisive action on the environment and behaviour, including regulation of certain products, improvement of health information and promotion, and fiscal policy. These matters are raised by the Court of Auditors, whose findings and recommendations I share. However, I want to stress that healthy behaviours are built from childhood onwards. We must therefore make the collective health prevention and education services much more effective and robust, now scattered around a multitude of actions without overall coherence. As far as physical activity is concerned, we have proposed, together with Régis Juanico, to integrate it into the basic knowledge. Just as we don't design a school day without lunch in the canteen, we can no longer design a day in which students would sit behind their desk for hours in a row. The first challenge is therefore to change logic by considering prevention from an early age, not as a useful policy, but as an accessory, but as a fundamental axis. Such a change will positively affect the behaviour of young people towards their health, as well as their academic success. The second challenge we face is overcoming the curative element in the construction of our health care system. There is a contradiction between society's interest in ensuring that everyone is healthy and the interest of our health care system to increase the number of acts and thus the number of patients. There is a need to develop the culture of public health, which has not yet fully entered the initial and continuing training of professionals. We found, with Régis Juanico, the shortcomings in the training of doctors in the field of physical activity and their difficulty in prescribing adapted physical activity. We propose to value this prescription, which is a therapeutic in its own right, and to better structure sports-health homes, which have so much difficulty in developing. If we succeed in meeting this second challenge, beyond the benefits to the health of the French, it is many savings that will be key to our health system. The third challenge is the management of public health prevention policies and their political portage. With regard to pilotage, we note the endless repetition of the thematic plans, of various qualities – there were 51 between 2003 and 2013. For our part, we propose the creation of a single document to set priorities for public health objectives and to define a timetable for implementation and an evaluation. Each objective must be supported by an organization. The problem, in our view, is not so much the "coordination of actors" – we have heard too much these words, that I can no longer stand! – that the clarification of the role of each person. As for political portage, prevention is a cross-cutting policy, covering the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Ministry of Industry. Each has its own priorities, which do not necessarily include health prevention. To lead the prevention revolution, we propose the creation of a deputy ministry responsible for prevention, to the Minister of Solidarity and Health. This would provide us with a political authority to ensure that public health prevention policies are adopted. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens. – The rapporteur also applauds]] In conclusion, in this period of crisis we are going through, we obviously hope that the health system will hold and that we will be able to strengthen access to care. However, to preserve our health care system, we must also ensure that people are not ill. This is the meaning of the proactive and structured policy of prevention that we call for.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u5	We will now hear from the speakers in the groups. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u6	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe and Régis Juanico for the exciting work they did last year on the evaluation of public health prevention policies. As we all know, prevention in public health covers a broad spectrum of themes: combating destinies, whether social or territorial; the development of physical and sporting activity; learning related to the use of digital technology; food education or the fight against addiction and chronic diseases. Each of these subjects would deserve long-term development, as important as they are and concern all our citizens throughout their lives. In the time allotted to me, I shall, for my part, focus on the major subject of sedentaryness, the damage to which it leads and the crucial place which the school of the Republic must occupy in terms of prevention. In particular, I would like to highlight physical and sporting activity, which is the main lever of public action and is largely absent from Government policy. Indeed, beyond its powerful interest as a tool for socializing and reducing inequalities, the benefits of sport in terms of physical and mental health are no longer to be proved. They are considerable and proven, as many studies have shown. According to our colleagues' information report, 54% of men and 44% of women aged 18 to 74 are considered overweight or obese. If this figure falls to 17 per cent for children between the ages of 6 and 17, the fact remains alarming and must challenge us. I am also thinking of a phenomenon that most of us have already faced: overexposure to screens. While the average annual exposure time for 3-10 years is seven hundred and twenty-eight hours, early exposure to screens is being systematized; Its long-term consequences will undoubtedly be significant. They are already being felt, with 66% of 11-17 year olds already facing a health risk of concern related to this phenomenon. It was in order to combat its many perverse effects that the Socialist and related group had tabled, on the occasion of the first audiovisual bill of this legislature – the draft law on audiovisual communication and cultural sovereignty in the digital age – several amendments aimed at reducing the exposure of children to commercial communications promoting food products too rich in sugar, salt or fat. In the face of sedentary lifestyles and overexposure to screens, it is more than necessary to show voluntarism. For the past five years, Minister, we have been wondering about the measures that you and your majority have taken to tackle these two phenomena, aggravated by the health crisis. In this regard, as the report of our colleagues points out, there is an urgent need to take action by firmly including physical activity in school curricula, by implementing effective monitoring of student health and by focusing on innovative initiatives in the development of physical activity. Finally, sport is a generator of well-being; But now, two years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris 2024, whose dynamic must foster an ambitious development of physical and sporting activity at the heart of our daily lives, the majority's proposals are not up to the challenge. During the debates on the Sport, Youth and Associative Life mission of the 2022 finance bill, the majority – forgive me for saying so – showed their total lack of ambition in sport: the €987 million allocated, which represents 0.32% of the nation's budget, are far from the 1% target and the 3 billion needed for the Olympic Games. So, Mr. Secretary of State, when do you intend to move from good intentions to deeds? We do not consider it serious to promote an ambitious policy for the development of physical activity without involving the necessary funding. Finally, since prevention measures are all the more effective when they take place early in life, I would like to stress the importance of primary prevention in our schools. While there is an urgent need to develop the practice of healthy sport from an early age, the time devoted to sport in schools is more than insufficient. Students, who are often forced to finance their studies in paid employment, also suffer from sedentary behaviour. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Finally, I think it is absolutely necessary to mention the difficulties encountered by school medicine, which are recurrent because of inadequate and inadequate human and financial resources. Mr Secretary of State, what decisions do you intend to take so that it can play the decisive role that must be its primary prevention role? And more broadly, what means are you going to put in place to promote physical activity among our young people, an even more pressing problem in this time of health crisis? Finally, how do you intend to encourage more in the fight against sedentaryness?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u7	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the effort you are making to be here to discuss such an essential subject. While our health system has held up after two years of health crisis, the challenges facing us in the field of health prevention are enormous, and that is nothing to say. Your report, ladies and gentlemen, looks at sport, which is being considered as a tool for health prevention. The Working Together Group and I very much share not only your general observation, but also your proposal to put sport at the heart of our prevention actions and to define it as a major national cause by 2022. Our population is sedentary, resulting in an explosion of obesity as well as the proliferation of chronic diseases such as diabetes or hypertension. This situation is not improving. Sedentaryness, rightly referred to as a "time bomb" in the report, is so pervasive in our modern lifestyles that young people between the ages of 9 and 16 have lost 25% of their physical abilities in the space of fifty years. The figures are convincing: in France, the number of preventable deaths related to the consequences of sedentarity is estimated at 50000 each year. Health prevention and the fight against sedentaryness are therefore major public health issues, perhaps even the main issues of our time. Physical activity therefore appears to be a magnificent weapon of prevention in health, which we need to enhance and use in the face of a crisis that favours self-absorbing and isolation. That is why it is important to consider it – with the necessary facilities – as a chance, not as an additional health risk factor – that has all too often been the case in the last two years. In my view, the role of physical activity in prevention in public health must therefore be the subject of a comprehensive reflection that must question both our management of the crisis and our ways of life, through a holistic approach to health. Talking about physical activity also means thinking about our modes of transport, the time spent in front of the screens and our food, among other topics. But to develop our prevention actions around sport, we need – as with each of our actions – human resources and, of course, health professionals. In the list of recommendations contained in your report, mention is made of paramedical professions, particularly nurses, but no mention is made of advanced practice. However, it may be appropriate to deploy these professions throughout our territory in order to address the social gradient in access to care. In fact, an IGAS report on advanced practice came out yesterday, and it is precisely in this direction. The Court of Auditors itself, in its last communication on public health policies, dated November 2021, explains that one of the major obstacles to the proper development of prevention in France is the "organisation of primary care". While the Ségur de la santé set a target of 5000 nurses in Advanced Practice (IPA) by 2024, I call for the opening of the first recourse to direct access to advanced practice nursing in primary care, as well as the re-engineering of existing specialties, so that they can join as practice progresses. In this way, APIs could invest in the field of prevention, whether through health education, screening, or through accompanying and preventive tasks concerning tobacco, addictions or eating disorders. For better medical follow-up at school, we could in particular create the IPA in school health, in order to make the profession more attractive and autonomous. As the report rightly points out, in 2018 France had a nurse for 1,300 students and a doctor for 12,500 students. Such figures do not allow for rigorous monitoring of the health of our children, and prevent a true policy of prevention. The creation of an occupational health API would also make it possible to carry out information and prevention visits. While since 1 July 2012, the occupational physician may entrust certain activities to nurses under his responsibility, the scope of these activities must be broadened to ensure that the mutual action of both parties is more effective. Finally, the creation of an IPA for the prevention and control of infection (PCI) would be a major asset in the fight against emerging risks and antibiotic resistance. During the crisis, nurses-hygienists demonstrated that their action was indispensable. These three areas of practice, focused on prevention, health education and screening, are just examples. Of course, the creation of such a system requires – among other things – the development of new models and new models of training, as well as agreements with universities, reengineering and substantive work. Thus, in almost inevitable ways, the fight against medical desertification and the increasing health needs of our population lead to the shift of the centre of gravity of doctors' public health policy towards the paramedical professions, for an improvement of health prevention. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem Group and the Commission]] Some of the initiatives I have welcomed since their announcement, such as the establishment of the health service to introduce health students to prevention, are already at the time of their first assessment. Mr Secretary of State, could you please provide us with the figures on the deployment of this system and indicate to us what national prevention strategy it is integrated into? A costed approach must bring us together collectively around the defense of common goals, for better health prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u9	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u10	We must not wait until we are ill to gain access to sport: prevention must therefore be built on at an early age. For yes, it is urgent to fight sedentaryness and to promote more active lifestyles on a daily basis; It is urgent to put physical and sports education to the taste of the day. Putting people in motion is also a way to prevent addiction on screens. But our model of society is also to be reconsidered. Indeed, industrial products, which are found in the stalls of large surfaces, are filled with chemicals; accessible at a lower cost, they make sick. To be healthy, we must also have the means to do so, and poverty undoubtedly plays a negative role in this area. Let us take the example of my island, La Réunion: 39 per cent of the population lives below the poverty line, and we know the consequences. Attending a gym, practicing extracurricular leisure, acquiring sports equipment for our children: all this has a cost! In short, without means, it is difficult to take care of his health. It is for this reason that if we want to improve the health of French people, especially our young people, we must first and foremost fight against the scourge of poverty and focus on prevention. At the same time, it is necessary to open sports facilities outside school hours to the other public, and to better accompany associations working in this field, so that leisure activities may be limited to screens, in spite of them promoting sedentaryness. In addition, there is the issue of eating well. We all know that with little financial resources it is difficult to eat healthy and balanced: we will tend to buy poor quality products that make us sick. In fact, the cheap is expensive! In our territories, metabolic diseases are growing and there is an urgent need to act against these scourges. That is why I agree with the proposal 18 of the report by Mr Juanico and Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe, which I thank for their work. As my colleagues Maud Petit and Jean-Philippe Nilor also point out in their information report on behalf of the Overseas Delegation on sport and health in overseas countries, physical and sports activity and "well eating" are the best medicines for healing and healing the body, both physically and mentally. For example, therapeutic education for healthy living must involve the provision of the necessary means to set up workshops on physical and psychological well-being, but also on all nutrition issues, in order to teach young people to take care of themselves. Whether in partnership with national education or through associations, these workshops must be led by professionals, dietitians and nutritionists, who must play the role of food trainers and educators. Structures such as sports-health homes must be developed, as well as as associative structures such as neighbourhood houses. Overseas countries also have high-level athletes, who could, for example, sponsor these associations in order to encourage young people to practice sports. Mr Secretary of State, the overseas territories have at least 950,000 poor people and are subject to mass unemployment. The prevalence of chronic food-related diseases is much higher than in Hexagon. Diabetes affects 10 per cent of Martinique, 11 per cent of Guadeloupees and 14 per cent of Reunionians, compared to a national average of 5 per cent; hypertension is higher in most overseas countries – 45% in Réunion, 43% in Mayotte, 42% in Martinique, 39% in Guadeloupe, to name but a few – only in metropolitan France. Finally, in Réunion, four in ten people are overweight and one in ten people have obesity. [[The rapporteur applauds]] In the face of this alarming situation, Secretary of State, overseas countries must become areas of experimentation and be given priority in the areas of sport, health and food well-being. What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u11	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u12	The Public Policy Review and Control Committee has chosen to focus its work on the role of physical activity in prevention in public health. There is, in fact, much to be said in this area, as it is essential to move and be physically active: the body and the mind need it. But there is a need for a more general view, and that will be the second part of my speech. The IDU and independent group, especially Valérie Six, who specializes in these issues, shares your observation: we must fight against the sedentaryness that has worsened with the health crisis, successive confinements and restrictions of access to sports halls. Physical activity has many virtues and is an excellent means of protecting against chronic diseases. "Lifelong sport" is often a slogan. From school onwards, physical activity is important for the motor, growth and development of the child. The practice of a sport continues throughout school, but often, when they enter higher education, students give it up due to lack of dedicated time and adequate organisation. That is why we support your proposal to make systematic a free education unit for physical and sporting activity in higher education. We even believe that institutions should monitor and verify the participation and acceptance of students in these activities. The health crisis has reminded us that students, who are of an age that we envy or regret, are nevertheless a vulnerable population. The pandemic has been accompanied by a deterioration in the mental health of many of them, to which, unfortunately, the lack of sport has contributed. We also lack nurses and school doctors. Your report recalls these cruel figures: one nurse for 1,300 students, one doctor for 12,500 students. The Court of Auditors, asked last April by the Finance Committee, said that a complete reorganization of school medicine, together with a revision of its working methods, was essential. The Government must address this issue. We must also promote sport in working life because it is a remedy against back pain, stress, burn-out risks and many other pathologies. Sport heals and, better still, prevents diseases: 30 minutes of physical activity per day reduce the risk of cardiovascular accidents by an average of 30%. From the age of 45, every employee must be able to make an assessment of his or her health in order to correct his or her bad habits. The Institut Pasteur in Lille has created a longevity path to detect the frailties of patients and to accompany them in a preventive approach. This model could be financed by contributions to occupational health services. Finally, as stated in my introductory statement, I believe that health prevention should not be limited to sport. Especially when it comes to young people, it also requires strong awareness-raising policies. On behalf of Valérie Six, I would like to alert you once again to a growing phenomenon that puts our youth at risk: the misuse of nitrous oxide. Last Sunday, sixteen tons of nitrous oxide bottles were discovered, intended to fuel well-organized traffic. Consumers of nitrous oxide have moved from cartridges – which we find empty on the floor of our streets – to cans. It's urgent to act! We once again call on the Government to issue the decree governing the sale of these cartridges, which has been expected since last June and the unanimous vote of the National Assembly and the Senate on the bill of Valérie Létard. We also call on the Government to organize an awareness-raising campaign against this misused consumption, which causes loss of consciousness, cold burns, dizziness and falls. Repeated use may result in serious neurological or cardiac disorders. More generally, we need to develop prevention campaigns against drug abuse, drug use, and to raise awareness of the risks of cannabis use. I support the Government's prevention campaign on the health, educational and social risks of the use of this drug. I call for a similar campaign with regard to nitrous oxide.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u13	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u14	This speech on behalf of the Republic on the move allows me to supplement and illustrate my rapporteur's statement. As a doctor, what did I observe in the field? Physical activity is a powerful means of combating cancers, chronic diseases, including lung diseases such as asthma and cardiovascular diseases such as diabetes, hypercholesterolemia and hypertension, and obesity. This proven effect is due in particular to the fact that physical activity makes the metabolism of glucose much easier. The practice of sport may allow diabetics to reduce their intake of insulin or other treatments, or even to dispense with medicines if the disease is managed early. In view of this, one might believe that the practice of sport is recommended very frequently to the sick. When I asked a colleague again recently in connection with the drafting of this report, I found that this was not the case. He told me that he did not prescribe physical activity as a therapeutic lever, while admitting that it would be a good idea. That is to say, this is not part of the culture and training of health professionals! Once the benefits of physical activity are known to all and promoted by health professionals, the question arises of the place of practice. In terms of providing suitable physical activities, a great deal of work remains to be done. While sport-health homes are expanding, they often come from local initiatives and are not necessarily coordinated between them. In some territories, where they are numerous, they specialize in avoiding competition; in others, however, they are non-existent. In our view, the missions of these structures should be clarified and their role as focal points emphasized. Based on the experience of the assessment mission on healthy and sustainable eating that I conducted with Julien Dive, I believe that the promotion of physical activity could be a powerful lever for primary prevention of chronic diseases. But there is another area, which I know very well and which is particularly close to my heart, where this prevention is insufficient: health at school. We'd have to take the subject in arm-to-body. What are the basic needs of children? What do they need to live their daily lives and be healthy? Physical activity is a basic daily need. As harvesters-walkers, we are physiologically designed to move all the time, as we have become very sedentary. Other basic needs: sleeping, drinking, eating, eliminating. Looking closely, we realize that they are not always well taken into account at school. After leaving the mid-term kindergarten section, children no longer take naps, while they would need them to learn the skills required more easily. So that they can drink, are there any water dispensers available? I have seen some in the House, but not much in the schools. As for elimination, it is a real subject. Because of the discipline concerns and the fears of adults related to safety, children at school cannot go to the bathroom if needed. [[Smile]] For physical activity, the same finding of insufficiency is made. Under the aegis of Mr Blanquer, an experiment is being conducted in some elementary schools where children practice thirty minutes of physical activity, which I welcome. However, experience concerns only a few schools, while physical activity is a fundamental need. During my exchanges with the young people in the schools, after half an hour, I ask them to stand up so that we all make thirty seconds of stretching. Everyone wonders what the congresswoman is doing! In reality, everything is going very well and we all feel much more dynamic afterwards. We therefore advocate a much more incisive policy at school. As I know you are very involved in the protection of children, Secretary of State, I have no doubt that you will be a real facilitator in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u15	Mr Cyrille Isaac-Sibille has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u16	On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I would like to thank our colleagues Régis Juanico and Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe for the quality of their work. They provide us with relevant insights into the adverse effects of sedentary behaviour on our health and the promotion of physical activity as a means of coping with it. I also thank them, and above all, for having made it possible to put this important issue on the agenda of our Assembly. First of all, it should be noted that the concept of public health remains poorly defined for many of us. What is public health? It is to have a population-based approach to health in all its dimensions and to take action on the determinants of health that can be linked to individual characteristics, the environment, the education and health system, and the socio-economic context. Changing behaviours – eating patterns, decreasing physical activity, screen and sleep habits – and environmental factors such as air and water quality are the first factors that determine our health. They are called "determinants of health." When they are degraded, they are largely responsible for the rise in chronic and mental illnesses. What's the good news? We know that these determinants can be positively influenced by changing our lifestyles and adopting public policies. While they have long been at the heart of the government's concerns, a curative approach has been preferred to them. Until 1974, as I recall, we had ministries of public health. We now have ministries of health. For several years, preventive medicines – maternal and child protection (PMI), school medicine and work – have been abused or abandoned, while they are crucial actors in public health and reducing inequalities. Yet great inequalities remain in health and education. While France holds the record for longevity, it also holds the record for aging in poor health. What did we do during this legislature? We have taken several measures to promote public health, which I would like to recall: an increase in the number of compulsory vaccines from an early age; recognition of physical activity as a treatment in its own right, as long as it is prescribed by a doctor; setting up the health service for health students in order to introduce 47000 of them to the concept of public health, prevention and promotion of health; high taxation of cigarettes; accompaniment of the nutrient-score. What's left for us to do? Your report confirms well-known and unanimous findings. You rightly point out that the adoption of a public health policy is an investment, not a cost. You point out the need for a strong political portage, in order to ensure the effectiveness of a preventive public health policy. The MODEM Group fully endorses the recommendations made in this report, in particular with regard to the promotion of physical and sports activity among young people and the anchoring of physical and sports education in basic learning. In order to give a new dimension to our prevention policy, we must transform this momentum in a resolute and lasting way by proposing, as you do, practical and concrete solutions. Together, we must make prevention a public priority, both at national and local level, through the appropriation of the concept of public health by the French and institutional leaders; by a multidimensional approach to health, which involves exercising this competence in an inter-ministerial way, involving the ministries of national education, agriculture, sports, transport, housing, local authorities and labour; by a national framework setting out the priorities for public health; by the study of the determinants of health; by the designation of a body responsible for the evaluation and validation of actions – I had counted more than 26,000 in a report on health prevention for young people; by a local declination coordinating all institutional actors and communities and building on existing and evaluated experiments; by a policy of health promotion for all sectors from an early age and throughout life, both in school and in the non-school environment and in the world of work, not to mention the elderly and the disabled; and finally through dedicated and identified funding, for example in a sub-objective of the National Health Insurance Expenditure Objective (ONDAM) during the vote on the Social Security Financing Bill (PLFSS). [[Applause on the benches of the Dem Group and on the benches of the commissions]] I will conclude by paraphrasing Hippocrates, who said that our food is our first medicine: make our good behaviors our first medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u17	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u18	First of all, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, I would like to thank Régis Juanico and Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe for their very comprehensive report, which deals in particular with the health issues related to sedentarity and the absolute necessity of sport and physical activity for all – young people and adults, healthy people and sick people. The report details the major issues, clarifies the findings that we already made, if I dare to say so, in an empirical and partial way, and proposes ways of improving them in the form of eighteen recommendations, which in fact cover several of them each. It would be very difficult to go back to all the points raised, but an important place is given to the protection of the health and well-being of children and young people, which we can rejoice at. Sedentarity associated with poor nutrition is the source of an increase in obesity and type 2 diabetes among young Europeans. This is unfortunately shared, either in the European Union or among the member states of the Council of Europe. Obesity and type 2 diabetes, acquired metabolic disorders, are preventable diseases, which shorten the lifespan and can lead to other pathologies, including, this has been recalled, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. They negatively affect the quality of life of patients and constitute a considerable burden on health systems. France must therefore respond urgently to this other public health crisis. I will leave aside the other side of prevention, namely the adoption of healthy eating habits from an early age. With regard to healthy lifestyles, the report is interested in proposing measures to improve the well-being of children and young people in all areas of their lives by addressing the issue of physical activity in a holistic manner. I will come back to some points of attention and action – information, education, access to facilities and associations, urban mobility, free time for families – and will make three complementary proposals. First, the report makes information a cross-cutting theme in order to promote a more active lifestyle. It also puts education as well as schools – understood in the broad sense of the term – and the efforts they make to encourage and practice physical exercise at the heart of future action. Another area of progress in this area is improved access by children and young people to physical education and sport outside school, including through extracurricular activities. Improving access to sports facilities, especially in socially disadvantaged neighbourhoods, and to a more active lifestyle must be a priority. The place and role of sports associations in these neighbourhoods, including during and after the pandemic, should be the subject of reflection and targeted support measures by public authorities. In addition, specific measures to promote urban mobility should be considered by encouraging cycling and walking through improved urban planning and transport policies: this would be an area of progress. At the same time, work and living arrangements would allow parents to take better advantage of their travel, breaks and rest periods to relax and spend time with their children in a secure and comfortable manner. In conclusion, I will make three proposals. I believe that the participation of children and young people in the design of public health programs for them is an important condition for their success. It should therefore be ensured that young people are fully involved in the development of these programmes at all levels. Some European countries have developed models and good practices that could serve as case studies and have established effective consultation mechanisms, in which children and young people are actively involved in the planning and deployment of programmes that concern them. As France takes over the presidency of the Council of the European Union, it is worth recalling the importance of European-wide programmes and campaigns to encourage an active lifestyle and discourage too sedentary activities. Finally, research could be conducted to determine why some children and young people find physical education boring and unsatisfactory. [[The rapporteur applauds]] I hope that the 18 recommendations contained in the report can be taken into consideration by the Government, but also by all the public authorities concerned, today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u19	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u20	First of all, let me thank the various group chairmen, including Mr Lagarde here, for their willingness to move this week's debates so that we can consider an important bill, adopted by the House at a late hour from Wednesday to Thursday, and even in the early morning, even though, like you, I regret that we are, as a result, probably a little less numerous in the sitting than this very interesting topic would deserve.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u21	We're here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u22	You are indeed present, Madam Member, to debate the CEC report. Faithful to Parliament's tradition of evaluating public policies, Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe and Régis Juanico, whom I also thank, have produced an important and exciting report, of nearly two hundred pages, on a theme that is among the priorities of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health: prevention in public health. The report places particular emphasis on the role of sport in prevention policies. I am pleased that, as many of you have recalled, the health benefits of physical activity are no longer to be demonstrated. Two and a half years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris and a few months from the end of a legislature which, I believe, has made real progress – on which I will return – in our prevention policies, I am therefore pleased that we can take the time to discuss the various actions deployed in recent years and the new guidelines proposed by the rapporteurs. Before I get to the heart of these proposals, I would like to recall the framework for the action currently being taken by the public authorities in the field of public health prevention. As the report clearly states, the National Health Strategy 2018-2022 and the National Sport-Health Strategy 2019-2024 are the two arms of prevention policy at the national level. They are complementary and have made very real progress in recent years. I am thinking in particular of the deployment of sports-health houses, which you have been many to mention. These spaces inform and mobilise non-sports, especially those with the most fragile health, about the sport offer at their disposal. We will continue our efforts to achieve the goal of 500 homes by the time the Olympic Games are held. I can also announce that 152 new sports-health homes have been labeled this week, in addition to the 300 that we have counted so far. I am also thinking of all the experiments permitted by section 51 of the LFSS for 2018. I note, moreover, that several of you have mentioned local experiences in their territory, which seems to me rather encouraging. These experiments have led to the spontaneous birth of some 30 innovative devices, placing physical activity at the centre of therapeutic pathways for patients with chronic diseases, cancers, or neurodegenerative diseases. A fine example of this is the "Mission: Back to Your Path" experiment. Driven in the Nord and Pas-de-Calais, since 2018, it has been able to accompany young people aged 3 to 8 who are at risk of overweight and obesity. Through this system, these children have been able to perform appropriate physical activities and have access to consultations with dietitians and psychologists, at no cost to their families. It is also an opportunity for me to reply to one of the questions raised by the rapporteur Juanico about the appropriate physical activity sessions and their management by health insurance: until we have defined a viable and sustainable economic model, we would prefer, as you will understand, to encourage experiments carried out on the basis of Article 51, in order to be able to generalise care on the basis of a robust evaluation and which has demonstrated the benefit of the relevant public health schemes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u23	It's working!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u24	We share your will, but it is our responsibility to find a viable economic model. The ongoing experiments will be completed in 2023 or 2024. Generalization should be possible on this basis. The "Mission: Back to your course" experiment has borne fruit. In the framework of the LFSS for 2022, the Assembly has generalized it to France as a whole and extended it to young people between the ages of 3 and 12, for an amount of 32 million euros. This is great news for young people with overweight or obesity. We know that the overseas territories are particularly affected by overweight and obesity, particularly as a result of poor nutrition and lack of physical activity. Mr. Ratenon made this clear. I would like to say to him, and to the other Members of the Overseas Parliament, that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, in close association with the actors on the ground, has undertaken to draw up an overseas part of the national nutrition health programme (NHP), in order to take into account the specificities and the stakes of these territories. The result of this work will be published at the end of the first quarter of 2022. The Meeting, which initiated the Réunion programme for nutrition and diabetes control (PRND) in 2020, will obviously be part of this process. These are the first elements of my response that I could bring to you. I shall have the opportunity, during our discussion, to return to other actions carried out by the State since the beginning of the quinquennium, but we are gathered first and foremost to discuss the eighteen proposals put forward by the rapporteurs. I say this straight away: rest assured, the Government is fully in line with the vast majority of the recommendations you make. Some of them are in line with the mission entrusted by Olivier Véran to Professor Franck Chauvin on the modernization of our public health. Let me now turn to those of your ideas, which I think are particularly important. First of all, you call for the launch of a national campaign to prevent, inform and act on the fight against sedentaryness. This first proposal seems to me already satisfied since such a campaign was conducted in August 2021, carried by a slogan in which we all recognize ourselves: "It is too good to do sport! She is destined to return every year, for a month, until 2024. The second proposal in your report concerns the addiction on screens, a subject raised by several of you this afternoon. This scourge affects all French people, especially children, especially – as you pointed out – during this period of pandemic, marked by confinement. I would also like to stress that health is also at the heart of my commitment as Secretary of State for Children. Today I can say before you – I will perhaps come back to that when the questions are asked – that a road map specifically addressing the responsible use of screens and better handling of addictions and vulnerabilities is being finalized within the Ministry of Solidarity and Health – the minister himself is taking part in this work – and that we are at your disposal to enrich its content with your possible suggestions. The introduction of fitness and fitness tests for all, which is the subject of your third proposal, is currently under consideration. Two measures are being deployed at the local level to explore this idea. Practically, an experiment is under way in the Academy of Créteil. It is a matter of putting a battery of physical tests on schoolchildren in order to adapt the practice proposed to them and so perhaps – I would point out to Mrs Karamanli – to take better account of their opinions and their words in the development of these programmes. On a more theoretical level – some speakers having called for the development of research on these issues – a large study is being carried out with the support of the Fédération française de cardiology in order to measure the physical capacity of French college students on the basis of a cohort of 10,000 young people. Based on the results of these two local initiatives, we may indeed be required to implement your recommendation on a wider scale. Unifying prevention objectives and setting priorities, anchoring physical and sports education in basic learning, enriching teacher training on the practice of sport or promoting sport in each school: how can we not share the spirit of such recommendations? Of course, we can discuss how to implement these objectives. That is why the legislation is here, particularly the legislation on the democratisation of sport, which the Senate will consider in the coming days and which has been adopted here, on the initiative of the parliamentary majority that I welcome. It includes the idea – to which I want to assure you of our full support – of taking over a medical-sports assessment by the health insurance – the fourteenth proposal of your report. In many respects, the place of the school, mentioned by many of you, is central, both in this report and in the policies carried out. The generalization in schools of the Thirty minutes of daily physical activity, launched in the run-up to the Paris Olympic and Paralympic Games, is thus under way. It is not a question of imposing it on all schools, but of allowing them to join them on a voluntary basis. If, today, more than 4000 schools are officially associated with this scheme, it is in fact more than 12,000 schools that offer it to their students. To support and promote the development of this measure, a circular to schools is being drafted by the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports. Your thirteenth proposal, by which you call for a renewal of school recreation courses, will be satisfied. We are working on new school design and layout standards to make their courses and sports practice spaces better suited to the diversity of games and motor skills, as you have advocated. In short, it is a matter of ensuring that school classes are not just football fields reserved for the most talented players – even if the rapporteur, or rather Captain Juanico, would not necessarily be opposed to such an idea! – but also sports practice spaces accessible to all. The development of sport-health homes, which is the subject of your 17th proposal, is an objective that we fully share. As I was saying right now, 452 sports-health homes were created or labelled as such during this legislature, our goal being to reach the 500 establishments by the end of 2022. In the same vein, the inclusion of these sports-health houses in the law will strengthen the legal basis of these structures. The discussion we have together today is essential and the report before us allows us to clarify it in a precise and rigorous manner. The figures, which you know, are dizzying: according to the French Cardiology Federation, for 40 years, young people aged 9 to 16 have lost 25% of their physical capacity. It is therefore a scourge and, in the words of the rapporteur, a time bomb. Sports practice and the fight against screens are major levers of action. But there are others, which nest in the daily lives of young and old. At the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, we believe deeply in the sport we practice without realizing it, the active mobilitys and everything that encourages the movement over the course of a day. Getting around on foot or by bike, whenever possible, from an early age, it means doing sport without realizing it and it allows you to acquire healthy reflexes throughout your life. This is a shared responsibility of all political men and women because the main obstacle to the development of active mobility in our country has for too long been the fear of not being able to move independently and actively under optimal security conditions. In this regard, of course, practices are changing, at the initiative of the Government, for example with an ambitious bike plan, but also, of course, at the initiative of many local elected officials who choose secure infrastructure to promote walking or cycling. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] What I am saying about the fight against sedentaryness is, of course, also true about preventing the loss of autonomy. A move that cannot be made actively, by walking or by paddling, spent a certain age, is always another step towards loss of autonomy. As you may know, a mission has been entrusted to MP Jean-Marc Zulesi to put active mobility at the service of preventing loss of autonomy. This issue is essential at a time when our society is about to undergo, as you know, a major demographic transition, which requires us to find solutions to enable everyone to live as long as possible, autonomously and in good health.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u25	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes. I will ensure that this rule is scrupulously observed so that we can conduct the second debate this afternoon until it is concluded within the time limit set for us. Mrs Sylvie Tolmont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u26	I would like to return to the link between the problems of obesity, overweight and sedentaryness among young people, particularly in relation to the time spent in front of the screens. I naturally associate myself with this question, Mr Chantal Jourdan, whom I am replacing because of the change in our agenda. Many studies have shown the negative impact of sedentary behaviours, especially in front of a screen, on the physical, cognitive, emotional and social development of children and adolescents, as well as on their academic performance, well-being, sleep and mental health. Since the onset of the epidemic, the significant increase in digital use by children and adolescents during containment has exacerbated this trend. The recent ANSES study I mentioned earlier, covering 2016, shows that in France 49% of 11-17 year olds have a very high health risk because they spend more than four and a half hours in front of a screen and do less than twenty minutes of physical activity a day. Our colleagues' report highlights several studies that also link obesity, sedentaryness and social inequalities. As the same report points out, it seems that communication and information on the provision of support for parenting and the possibilities of caring for children in order to help them to get rid of an addiction on screens should be strengthened. Can you tell us what the Government's objectives are in this regard? And how do you intend to take into account the disparities that exist between socio-economic backgrounds?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u27	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u28	Your question extends some of the points that you and several speakers have made in the first part of the debate. I will not go back to the fact that you have sufficiently detailed, both in terms of the situation in recent years and its worsening during the health crisis, in particular during the containment phases, during which the exposure time of children to screens has increased, which has had consequences for sedentaryness and obesity. An article published yesterday also referred to this development, not only in France but also in a large part of the developed countries. As far as the relationship to the screen is concerned, we make sure that we do not fall into demonization and try to make a balanced speech, between, on the one hand, the real benefits that screens can bring to our children, as in the case of school at home – when we had to close the schools, it was the screens that made it possible to ensure educational continuity –...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u30	... and, on the other hand, the dangers that are of course associated with them. Our approach is to promote rational use of screens. I referred earlier to the roadmap on the use of screens, which will be unveiled in the coming weeks. I would add that we are dealing with these problems by being aware that they arise from early childhood, since we are referring to them in the context of the policy, which is purely preventive, of the first 1000 days, which concerns children under the age of three. CIFs, the family allowance funds, are parenting accompaniment actors that help parents with the rational use of screens by children. Finally, the site jeprotegemonenenfant.gouv.fr, launched by the Government, and originally intended to accompany parents on the issue of early exposure of children to pornography, is becoming a more general site for accompanying parents with regard to the rational use of screens by children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u31	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u32	First of all, I would like to welcome the quality of this report, which places on our agenda a key issue. When I was mayor of a northern commune, for more than seventeen years, I was able to measure the importance of the levers of action available to the territorial elected authority to train and mobilize a whole community on major issues such as the prevention of childhood obesity, to cite an issue that is acute in my department, which cumulates the adverse social indicators – Mr. Secretary of State, who often goes to the North, knows very well what I'm talking about. I was able to see, as a local elected official, that some taboos had to be dropped and some clichés had to be fought. For example, rather than considering sport as a competition – an image conveyed in clubs – it was necessary, on the contrary, to ensure that clubs and our fellow citizens now associate this practice with notions such as leisure, family or health. Sport can be practiced in a playground. This idea required a first evolution on the part of the entire teaching staff, who previously considered that it was essential to have access to a gym. However, a playground can represent a first plot of land. Preventing childhood obesity – which remains a scourge that needs to be addressed – also means taking care of children's diet, paying attention to the content of their plates. When I visit doctors at the public hospital in Tourcoing and see those admitted to resuscitation, I find unfortunately that the link between the serious forms of covid-19 and obesity is obvious. Prevention must therefore begin at an early age. I know that much has already been done in this area and that the Secretary of State is very attentive to these issues. By the way, these are not only the responsibility of the State, it is the responsibility of each territorial elected official to take them. My question is simple: how can we do more, better and otherwise to combat childhood obesity? Networking, for example, seems absolutely essential to me. I was able to observe it when I had the chance to join the VIF program, Let's live in shape, which allows local actors to exchange good practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u33	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u34	I will strive to respect this framework, Mr. President. First of all, Mr Ledoux, I think we can effectively fight obesity by starting as early as possible. In this respect, I would like to refer to one of the policies that you know is dear to me, that of the "first 1000 days", because it is from this moment that the education of children – but also probably that of parents because it goes together – can develop, whether it is the relationship on the screen, the physical activity, in this case more precisely the motority at that age, but also the food practices and therefore the nutritional dimension. All these points are an integral part of our approach. As regards the "first 1000 days", you know that one of the first recommendations of the Cyrulnik report was to draw up public health messages for parents on this period of life, particularly on the subjects we discuss together, because the parents are a little lost, being either watered with contradictory information or under-informed. Thus, physical activity, nutrition but also cultural and artistic awakening, and many others, are part of the topics integrated in these public health messages developed since, jointly by the Ministry and Public Health France, and are found in particular on the application "first 1000 days", as on the website www.1000-first days.fr, which I allow myself to promote. Also, at every birth declaration today, the CAF sends back in the fourth month a small booklet containing all these public health messages. Next, you mentioned the "Let's live in shape" program, which aims to mobilize communities and community actors around the objective summarized in its title, namely to support families towards more health-friendly behaviours, and the ministry is still listening to ideas that could, in the case of virtuous partnerships, further develop this type of arrangement, particularly with CAFs, which are major partners in communities in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u35	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u36	Mr Secretary of State, when we talk about health prevention policies, the first thing we want to tell you is that the best prevention is access to care. However, medical desertification deprives many of our country's territories, whether urban or rural, from effective prevention. How could we believe an effective prevention policy when 6 million French people today do not have access to care? The IDU and independent group has presented proposals on this subject throughout the legislature, and we will come back to this in the debate that will take place shortly. My question concerns the implementation of prevention plans. The framework is defined at national level while the implementation is regional, entrusted to the regional health agencies – the RHAs. The report makes it very clear that the direction of these policies could be improved. The rapporteurs criticise the dispersion of energy and funding in the implementation of these plans, which are multiplying, succeeding and even overlapping, all of which depend on a different authority and lack evaluation. At the IDU, we have long made a simple and effective proposal: the decentralization of health competence, which would thus fall under the responsibility of the regions: they would thus be able to define their own priorities, in the light, for example, of the particular prevalence of certain pathologies in their territory, and doubtless to implement these policies more effectively by bringing together the actors of that territory. That, Secretary of State, is what we would like to see moved. I recall that the RSAs were created a few years ago because the ministry of health had to be deconcentrated, but it seems to us that the pandemic has shown that this deconcentration is not enough: the state must remain in control of the score, but let the musicians interpret it on the ground. It will be faster and more suitable, more effective in a word. For what is most striking for us today is the inequality of health between the territories and therefore inequality in terms of life expectancy, probably the greatest of all among the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u37	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u38	We agree on a number of things, starting with the finding of medical desertification. I will not remind you that it has given rise to many exchanges, debates and legislative proposals, but also to many measures taken by the Government since the beginning of the quinquennium, namely the abolition of the numerus clausus, the introduction of the system. My health 2022, the development of local health professional communities (CPTS) and community hospitals, the relaxation of relations between city medicine and the hospital, telemedicine – which has accelerated during this health crisis – etc. We are putting in place mechanisms to combat medical desertification and improve access to health care for our citizens throughout the country. With regard to the decentralization of health at the regional level, I believe that we have been pursuing this approach as far as possible since the beginning of the quinquennium, but at the same time maintaining a national approach to ensure this health equality that you call for, as we, of course, do. For example, we are entrusting more and more prerogatives to regional health agencies. Thus, the latest law on the financing of social security, which you have voted for most recently, provides for the transfer of envelopes of missions of general interest to the level of the SRA and no longer at the level of the ministry. This deconcentration process continues to develop and irrigate the territories. Similarly, the Ségur de la santé has entrusted almost all of its envelopes at the territorial level, i.e. at the level of regional health agencies. On the other hand, and it is on this point that we will not find ourselves, it does not seem desirable for the Government to go up to regional targets for health insurance expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u39	That's our proposal, indeed! It's the right to differentiation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u40	This would be a possible challenge to equal treatment throughout the country. Finally, I would add that, in the light of the crisis, we have seen the value of having a national health system with an advanced level of decentralization, but here too it seems that our analysis of the crisis is not exactly the same. We have had debates in the past, on this subject and others will come very soon, I have no doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u41	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u42	In this information report on the evaluation of public health prevention policies, sport is proposed as an essential vehicle for ageing well and as a tool to combat addiction. A relationship of financial and health causation is established between good aging and sport, and vice versa between dependence and sedentaryness. Thinking of physical activity as a means of preventing addiction must be a collective effort, and that is why our majority has been working alongside the Government for more than four years to develop sports practice for as many people as possible. We adopted at first reading the bill to democratise sport in France, which will, in particular, make it possible to integrate sport among the tasks of social and medical-social institutions. We have also acted for the old age by increasing, for example, the minimum age of 100 euros per month, which has affected more than 433,000 people. But I will not go back today to all these great reforms that have done a great deal for the daily lives of the French. Public health policy for our seniors must be comprehensive. It must involve plural actors such as sports federations, which already offer sessions dedicated to the prevention of aging and have even labeled programs around problems of balance and memory loss. We also need an attractive urban policy adapted to sports activities as advocated in this report. This policy will also have to take into account the psychological and socio-demographic determinants, which have been studied extensively, from the beginning of sports activity in the elderly to long-term adherence to practice. As a result of the demographic evolution of our Western societies, we are now called upon to cope with the ageing of our society: we must anticipate the fight against dependency. In their highly documented report, Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe and Régis Juanico, whom I thank again for this excellent work, propose another way, towards and through sport. Mr Secretary of State, by what policy of prevention of public health will you encourage the French, and especially the elderly, to start or maintain regular physical activity, a fortiori in the context of a sustainable health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u43	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u44	Mr President, as you have said, the elderly population is growing thanks to the increase in life expectancy – something that is to be welcomed. For example, the share of people aged 65 and over will increase from 17% in 2010 to 30% in 2060, and the number of people aged 85 and over will increase from 1.5 million to 4.8 million by 2050. But there is a significant difference between life expectancy and healthy life expectancy, and the latter has stagnated since 2005 at 61-62 years for men and 63-64 years for women, and the stake is there. If the French live longer than their European fellow citizens, they also enter dependency earlier. Anticipation and accompaniment of ageing and its consequences are a priority for the Government, in particular for my colleague Brigitte Bourguignon. The road map "large age and autonomy" allows to build global responses that can be implemented at the territorial level by involving all the actors involved. The National Strategy for Sport Health provides for raising awareness of offers and programmes of physical and sporting activities for seniors in the conferences of funders of prevention of loss of autonomy, as well as for mobilising the devolved services of the Ministry of Sport around territorial sports plans. The aim is to ensure the establishment, for example, of thematic regional technical teams, but also to develop the referencing of the offer of sports and physical activities suitable for all audiences. This work is based in particular on the network of our sports-health homes, which now number 430. It also promotes falls prevention programs. We report on the benefits of regular physical and sporting activity to older audiences and families: I refer you to the campaign "It's too good to do sport! launched last September and which I mentioned in the first part of the debate. Finally, a guide to assist actors in the implementation of physical activity aimed at maintaining autonomy will be released within a few days. It is essential to continue to talk about sport for seniors, that is what you are doing, and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u45	Mr Rodrigue Kokouendo has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u46	I am asking this question on behalf of my colleague Belkhir Belhaddad, who cannot be present today. First of all, he would like to thank the rapporteurs for the quality of the work and for the many proposals put forward to which he fully subscribes. As the report shows, the challenge of further structuring public health prevention policies around physical and sporting activities is major. In this sense, the Government has set itself the goal of promoting the development of physical and sporting activity for all and everywhere, with an additional 3 million practitioners by 2024. The operational implementation of this objective has resulted in a strengthening of resources, with the renewal of the sports pass in 2022 for example, but also in a new governance of public action around broad national guidelines and inter-ministerial strategies, such as the national strategy for sport health. While the health crisis has helped to keep a portion of the population away from sport in a sustainable manner, it should be noted that the practice of physical activity contributes to the achievement of many prevention goals in public health. In this sense, the rise in health sport and adapted physical activity will act as a most effective vaccine to combat increased sedentarity and physical inactivity, prevent the development of chronic diseases and increase healthy lifespan. From this perspective, the report goes back to the exploding local initiatives, but my colleague would like to know what the Government is considering to identify and evaluate the effectiveness of these good practices in order to generalize them at the national level. Which actors will be mobilised to carry out this work? Finally, the Government has adopted a multi-year national sport health strategy, the objectives of which were adopted in advance of the health crisis: do you think, Mr. Secretary of State, that the objectives of this strategy should be changed in the light of the lessons of the pandemic?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u47	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u48	I greet and thank Mr Belkhir Belhaddad, through you, for these issues, as his own has several. With regard to the financial support for adapted physical activity sessions, apart from what already exists in the framework of health insurance, it is not envisaged, as I indicated in my first speech, before we can define a sustainable economic model. At this stage, we have made the reasonable choice, it seems to me, to develop experiments within the framework of Article 51 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2018 in order to possibly consider generalizing the management of adapted physical activity on the basis of robust assessments. Rather, the Government's strategy to date is to promote adherence to long-term physical activity, targeting funding on the determinants of physical activity, as part of a sustainable educational approach that tends to change the patient's lifestyle. This is precisely the logic that has been adopted in the case of the post-cancer route, as we have seen, the Minister of Sports, Roxana Maracinanu and myself, at the Hôtel-Dieu. A doctrine has been established concerning the items taken care of, such as consultation with a doctor, physical fitness assessments, etc. The Government remains in favour of concentrating financial efforts on supporting physical activity, or even increasing the rate of follow-up and duration, so as to promote patient compliance with the prescribed activity. The Prime Minister announced the generalization, in 2022, of the experiment "Mission: returning to your course", already mentioned, which is aimed at young people aged 3 to 12 in situations of overweight or obesity. A budget of EUR 32 million is earmarked for this purpose. A mission to assess the impact of sport-health homes on the physical condition of beneficiaries was entrusted to the National Observatory for Physical Activity and Sedentarity. Let me remind you that we now have 430 sports-health homes. It is through this network that we will be able to identify local good practices and to reflect on the generalisation of certain experiments that can be carried out there. The dynamics of the national strategy for sport health must of course continue and become ever more concrete in the daily lives of the French. All the audiences involved in this strategy need sport, which is a major issue: they affirmed it during the crisis. A major communication campaign, which I have mentioned on several occasions, was launched by the ministry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u49	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u50	My question concerns the conclusions of the Youth Information Report. Over the past 50 years, young people between the ages of 9 and 16 have lost 25% of their physical capacity. In 1971, it took an average of three minutes for a child to run 600 metres; Today, he needs four. The time spent in front of the screens is one of the causes of the growing sedentaryness of our young people. In France, 66% of 11-17-year-olds spend more than two hours a day in front of screens, but spend less than 60 minutes in physical activity. Confinement has only increased the intensive use of screens: the information report notes that 94% of children in the first confinement were exposed to screens for more than four hours a day. These figures are worrying. That is why last December, at the initiative of our colleague Caroline Janvier, several political figures and Members of Parliament, including myself, signed a stand against the overexposure of children on screens. Obesity, diabetes, but also cancers and cardiovascular diseases: the risks associated with sedentarity are multiple. The need for regular physical activity to be healthy is not just a slogan: it is a reality proven by the results observed on the ground, and it is our collective responsibility. The report points out that physical activity, which is fully integrated into our daily lives from an early age, reduces the risk of chronic diseases. I would like to commend the government measures that have been in place since 2017. I am thinking of the sport-health homes that, since 2019, allow people with chronic diseases to reconnect with sport. I am also thinking of the sports pass that is part of the equal opportunities process that our majority wants. The year 2022 will be the year of youth, the Olympic Games of 2024 are approaching: isn't this the time to encourage collective and individual awareness? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Mr. Secretary of State, how can we further inform younger generations of the harms of sedentaryness and screen time on their health?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u51	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u52	Physical activity is obviously a major determinant of the health status of individuals and populations at all ages of life, and from the early years. Our comments and exchanges for more than an hour illustrate this: it helps to improve health, and its benefits are a real contribution that enables people to live better with the disease and to better support treatment. The National Sport Health Strategy 2019-2024 aims to promote physical and sporting activity as an integral determinant of health and well-being. It is therefore necessary to continue to promote physical activity by children and young people in order to limit the sedentary nature that has, moreover, increased since the crisis. I repeat, the Government is generalizing the "Mission: Back to Your Path" experiment, which is aimed at young people between 3 and 12 years of age. A communication campaign on this theme will be resumed every year until 2024 to encourage the French to get on or to get back to sport. Beyond that, our idea is to propose a real programme to accompany the French – a little like the tobacco-free month you probably know – by relying on ambassadors to mobilise existing networks, because they exist, and on sport-health homes. Let me remind you that the target of 500 houses will be achieved this year. I have already begun to answer about screens: the effects of overexposure of young children to inappropriate content are obviously a source of questioning and concern for the Government. This is one of the actions we have been doing for four years trying to promote a reasoned use of the screen – without demonizing it, because once again, when the screen is for example the object of a shared use between the child and his or her parents, it also has beneficial effects. However, as parents but also as professionals, we must all prepare for the future by taking up a dual challenge: to protect our children from the dangers of screens to prevent them from getting lost, while teaching them to develop uses that allow them to become citizens of a connected and responsible society. The roadmap of the screens will be completed with the Minister of Solidarity and Health Olivier Véran in the coming weeks. The site jeprotegemonenfant.gouv.fr will expand its scope, from the fight against early access to pornography to help and support on all issues related to digital, i.e. the whole of what is called digital parenthood. There will also be a strengthening of the action of the CAF, which organizes numerous workshops on digital parenting. We are also taking a number of initiatives within a European or international framework to promote a more rational use of screens and, more importantly, the protection of our children from a number of threats that are increasingly emerging in the digital world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u54	The next item is the debate on the reception of migrants in the European Union (EU) and the reform of the Dublin III Regulation. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. We welcome the delegate minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation who has joined us. Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u55	At the dusk of his life, Jean Monnet wrote in his memoirs: "Europe will be in crisis, and it will be the sum of the solutions to these crises." That is to say, as we witness so many tragedies related to migration, how much we call for this lesson in history. In the Group of the European People's Party, we are advocating a comprehensive European strategy on the issue of migration, some of which, however, are a major issue that calls for answers that are far more refined and complex than some debates might suggest. Our challenge, which some will call civilizational, lies in the common and global approach that must allow us to address the migratory phenomenon arising from the geopolitical, economic and climatic upheavals of the world. This approach must first be part of a humanist project, and must respect our international values and commitments, whether it is the essential preservation of the right to asylum or the strengthening of access to rights. Our action must be based both on aid to the countries of departure, without which nothing will be possible because it must be remembered that no one leaves his country for pleasure, and on the implementation of the decisions taken, a requirement for both the people welcomed and those whom we cannot accept. Effectiveness in action is a prerequisite of humanity that we must demonstrate. European strategic vision, diplomatic and long-term development action to guarantee and sustain the right to asylum and to forge a new partnership between the European Union and the African Union: this is already what Marielle de Sarnez called for in her opinion on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the bill for controlled immigration and an effective right to asylum. This vision is also the one outlined by the President of the Republic in his speech by the Sorbonne in 2017. That is why, as the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union opens, our diplomacy is particularly awaited. The tragedies that have marked the news since 2015 have not grown in the European Union. When the answer to "Wir schaffen das! – we will do it! – from Angela Merkel was the closure of the Balkan road, when the Aquarius stationed in the Mediterranean with 600 migrants on board, when women and men called for aid at sea without getting a response, when the countries of the Union left Italy and Greece in particular, it was our European model that was shaken. We must therefore assume our responsibilities in the management of our borders, which is the condition of our sovereignty and security. That is why we must encourage the rise of Frontex, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, which will have 10000 border guards and coastguards by 2027 to carry out its missions to protect the external borders. I am also thinking of EMPACT, the European multidisciplinary platform against criminal threats, which devotes the cooperation of European police forces, particularly in the fight against smugglers. Migration is a historical, cyclical phenomenon, now in acceleration, mostly intracontinental, and not the laxity of a particular government. However, after the failure of the asylum package of 2016, it is more urgent than ever to provide an answer: in 2021, 83000 people in an irregular situation were arrested in Turkey, 600,000 migrants from forty different countries are currently stationing in Libya, 17,000 boats have crossed the waters of the Channel in the first eight months of the year and the tragedies have followed. This response is the European Pact on Migration and Asylum. On this subject, it will be up to the French Presidency to find ways of compromise, in order to paraphrase the words of the President of the Republic. The fact is shared on all the benches of the House: the Dublin III regulation is out of breath. It revealed the worst of national selfishness and finished proving its ineffectiveness: out of more than 13,000 Dublin requests issued by France in the first half of 2021, only 1500 transfers were authorised to the first country of arrival; 50% of the migratory pressure in France is crystallized at the Italian border. Despite the marked improvement since the establishment in 2015 of the regional hubs for the implementation of the Dublin procedure, the results are insufficient. The challenge of the European Pact is therefore twofold: the restoration of genuine European solidarity by means of a distribution key and mandatory provisions in the event of migratory pressure, and the empowerment of States in the management of migration flows, the establishment of monitoring of compliance with the common asylum system, the filtering of external borders and the overhaul of the Eurodac information system. The latter has become necessary if we are to avoid the proliferation of secondary movements, particularly in France and Germany. The pact will eventually lead to the transformation of the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) into a genuine European Asylum Agency responsible for harmonising the conditions for processing applications. The French Presidency will have to deal with these proposals with humility, as the differences within the Union are staggering. Indeed, the Member States of the Visegrád Group refuse to hear about compulsory relocations, when the destination States campaign for the limitation of secondary flows, and the front-line countries denounce a lack of ambition on the solidarity side. Because the subject of migration must take account of the situation in the countries of departure, the Pact provides for cooperation, assistance to third countries in the establishment of asylum systems and the establishment of a common list of safe countries of origin and third countries. In this respect, the issue of consular passes, already addressed in the context of the revision of the Schengen Visa Code of 2020, requires a genuine political response: in 2020, in France, of the 126,000 expulsion measures imposed, only 12,000 were carried out. We need to make our devices more effective. We must collectively develop effective and sustainable mechanisms to address current and future migration challenges. These include development assistance, which is the first response to the root causes of migration. Here again, and this is a good thing, we are witnessing better coordination of development banks and European programmes, like the budget of the Europe team, which brings together the Member States, the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), with an exceptional amount of €66.8 billion in 2020. The Team Europe initiatives focus on Africa, with a first mechanism, called the Atlantic, common to France and Spain, covering West Africa, and a second, the Central Mediterranean, driven by France and Italy for the benefit of sub-Saharan Africa and East Africa. At the supranational level, the Union has adopted a European instrument for neighbourhood, development and international cooperation, with a financing capacity of 79.5 billion for the period 2021-2027; 10% of this amount will be spent on support for the construction of reception and asylum facilities, the fight against trafficking in human beings and smuggling channels, and cooperation for better border management in third countries. Finally, we must stop thinking of migration only as a weight; It must prevail as an opportunity for us Europeans. Indeed, immigration is a vector of growth and innovation, as the European Union struggles to become part of international markets. Part of our competitiveness, and therefore our sovereignty, will come from our ability to attract the most skilled workers to the industries of the future. In this race to the emergence of European champions, our industrial policy must take into account the migration dimension. Our country must promote legal channels and the issue of economic migration, and Parliament must address this issue. This was one of the proposals of the Committee of Inquiry on Migration, Population Displacement and Living Conditions and Access to the Right of Migrants, Refugees and Stateless Persons, of which Sonia Krimi was the rapporteur. It is in this spirit that on 29 July the Council and the European Parliament agreed on a draft directive reforming the European Blue Card and seeking to ease the conditions for the entry and residence of highly skilled workers and their families. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The French Presidency will be a pivotal moment. If it calls us to humility, this historical sequence requires us to live up to many challenges, first and foremost that of migration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u56	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u57	I am speaking on behalf of my colleague Michèle Victory, who could not be present for this debate, as this week's agenda has been somewhat shaken. While France has been chairing the European Union for six months for the past few days, we look forward to having the opportunity to discuss migration policy within the Union. Our parliamentary work regularly leads us to address this important issue. This was still the case recently with the Committee of Inquiry on Migration – months of hearings, numerous visits to actors on the ground and exchanges with migrants. Our observation is that it is necessary to consider the reception of migrants not as an internal matter, but rather as a European matter. As we know, European migration policy and the Dublin III regulation are failures; It is urgent to correct them. Moreover, another report by the Committee on Laws, on the European reform of the right of asylum, presented in 2019, already denounced the European Union's inability to reform the regime it has gradually established. The blockages in some countries and the lack of initiatives are appalling. In fact, far from allowing a dignified reception of refugees and migrants or control of our external borders, the Dublin III regulation has put unacceptable pressure on the countries bordering the European Union, such as Greece, Italy and Malta. The only response to this crisis was to reach agreements with countries such as Libya and Turkey that would prevent migrants from entering the Union. Another example: rather than allowing Libyan ships to repatriate migrants to an unfortunate future, would it not be necessary to deploy a rapid response fleet in order to respond to calls for relief to people in distress in the Mediterranean? It would be better than blocking the ships from port to port, or worse to see the human tragedies happen and multiply before our eyes. I am thinking in particular of the macabre and terrifying count of the number of migrants who died at sea – men, women, children – while they only aspired to a future far from wars and dictatorships. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, announced her willingness to put an end to Dublin III in order to replace it with a solidarity mechanism. This is the thrust of the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Migration: the repeal of the Dublin III Regulation and the establishment of a European asylum agency. The advantages of setting up such an agency are many. It would promote fluid exchanges and relations between the countries of the European Union, while the situation is now very complex and relations between the countries of arrival and transit are very tense. The goal, which must be common, is a more dignified, more important and stronger welcome. Europe's humanistic values must be carried high and strong. The Afghan crisis has revealed, as well as the Syrian crisis that has persisted for more than six years, that European migration policy is largely dysfunctional in a rapidly changing world. In the face of such crises, the migration issue can never be resolved or thought of by retreating to ourselves in Europe. The accelerating climate change and its corollary, the displacement of people to more prosperous lands, as well as the advent of illiberal democracies and the retreat to ourselves in the countries of the North, are all factors that must require a rapid overhaul of our system, so that it can live up to the values of the Union, thinking about it in order to prepare for the future. We know that you see migration more in terms of an accounting balance sheet – number of asylum seekers, or number of expulsions or obligations to leave French territory (OQTF) issued – rather than in terms of our duty of solidarity and the extraordinary benefit that these people bring, rich in their cultures and backgrounds. We regret this, because immigration is an opportunity and our country must be the European driving force for a responsible but also generous migration policy, and especially at the dawn of the challenges ahead, such as the climate issue. We do not have a common migration policy with other European countries. Just take a look at the eastern borders of the European Union to see that we do not necessarily have the same vision of immigration as Poland or Hungary – to take only these two examples. France should radiate with a thoughtful and dignified welcome; That's what's been his strength since the 19th century. We should better take our part in the European reception of migrants, even if we know that the subject is complex. We need to respond better, by drastically improving the processing times for asylum applications. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We will support the solidarity mechanism referred to by the President of the European Commission, provided that it allows for a fairer and more dignified reception for migrants. Let us not allow obscurantism, which can be seen in all national and European debates, to take precedence over Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u58	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u59	The acceleration of migration of all kinds is one of the major facts of our time: it is both a sovereignty issue for our nation and a challenge for the European project. Back from ideologues and extremists on all sides, we must draw up a proactive, coherent and positive approach to migration policy so that our country and the European Union are sovereign actors in the migration process. We must never lose the ability to control without which no political organization is legitimate. This requires us to adapt and strengthen our tools to guide migration in a way that is favourable to our countries as well as to the countries of origin of migrants. At European level, the revision of the Dublin III Regulation will undoubtedly be one of the highlights of the French Presidency of the European Union. We must maintain the principle that only one State is responsible for examining an asylum application, even if the applicant moves from one State to another, while taking into account the fact that this system places a greater burden on the countries of first entry, which also control the external borders. We must therefore go beyond non-cooperative behaviour between Member States in order to improve overall functioning. This will improve the fight against smugglers, strengthen external borders and deepen partnerships with third States. We must reconcile the objectives of solidarity and responsibility: solidarity with the States of first arrival, but also full responsibility on the part of each of the States having a role in examining the first asylum applications. Since September 2020, we have had a solid working basis, with the European Commission's proposal, which includes a screening procedure at the Union's external borders in order to carry out identity checks quickly. In addition, on 11 November last, the European Parliament adopted the agreement on the transformation of the European Asylum Support Office into a fully-fledged European asylum agency, which will make it possible to harmonise the processing of asylum applications by calming relations between Member States and improving the rate of renewal. These European advances seem to me to be inextricably linked to national initiatives aimed at restoring meaning and ambition to our migration strategy. While our compatriots too often perceive migration only in their most painful and anxious aspects – the vision of migrants massed at the borders of Europe, or unaccompanied minors at the expense of the departments – the challenge is to value and activate all the levers of migration with visibly beneficial effects, both for France and for the countries of origin. First, in the territories, the integration policy of first-time arrivals and beneficiaries of international protection must be accelerated. It is therefore necessary to increase the deconcentration of this policy, under the guidance of the Ministry of the Interior, through the establishment of departmental road maps, with the support of committees involving the State departments, the territorial directorates of the OFII – Office français de l'immigration et de l'integration –, the actors of the public employment service, the representatives of the local authorities, as well as economic actors and associations. In order to ensure that the time taken to investigate the asylum application is no longer lost, I also propose to experiment with public-private partnerships led by the prefectures in order to identify the talents and speed up the integration of migrants. Secondly, we need to activate all the win-win tools with the countries of origin of migration. We must promote our policy of attractiveness in favour of students from the South, particularly African countries, by attracting the best students to France and offering them courses adapted to the needs of their economies in the perspective of return. We must also set up more French campuses at the major universities in the countries of the South. Circular occupational migration should also be promoted by granting appropriate visas such as "passport talent" residence permits, and by strengthening the "young professional" scheme provided for by bilateral agreements with partner African States, in order to promote cross-mobilities. There is also a need to increase the awareness and effectiveness of return assistance mechanisms in order to provide effective support for resettlement and reintegration. We could also direct some of the funds sent by migrants to their countries of origin towards productive investment, within a secure framework to contribute to projects that also benefit from contributions from public or private institutional investors. At European level as well as at national level, we must pursue a migration policy that is never subjected but rather a lever for international cooperation. It must be a truly ambitious policy, with tangible benefits and results for both migrants and our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u60	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u61	We must not hide our face: European asylum and immigration policy does not work. Like what can be seen in economic and monetary terms, the European Union wanted to move forward more than 30 years ago by removing borders between countries: the Schengen area was a major step forward. But we have left aside the problems associated with the creation, in fact, of a common external border which, however, required rules to protect it, but also to ensure coordination in the reception, return or processing of asylum applications. In economic matters, Europe launched the euro without coordinated budgets, without fiscal or social harmonisation and, when the crises arose, had to take accompanying and solidarity measures to preserve the single currency. On the other hand, on the immigration side, the crisis of 2015 did not allow the establishment of solidarity between states in the face of the migratory waves that have spread on our continent. Unfortunately, it's not surprising. Where States cannot do without the obvious economic benefits of European integration, the harmful political recovery of migration issues allows some countries, far from common borders in general, to dissociate themselves from those on the front lines, so much so that it must be said: politically, the European Union has financed populist regimes which are very happy to take advantage of the advantages of the single market without paying attention to the issues raised by immigration. The unfinished European system is all the more problematic because it places full responsibility on the countries of entry. We all bear this injustice, because it is the Dublin III regulation, voted by the Member States, which leads to this deleterious policy. It is also the lack of harmonisation of our rules that causes some Member States not to respect the most basic rights enshrined in the Geneva Convention. This same disorganisation leads to the confinement of thousands of people in barely sustainable conditions, while they have often been victims of smugglers who made them look great. The political instrumentalization of some should not serve the tradition of political asylum of our continent and our nation. It is therefore reassuring that the creation of a genuine European Union Agency for Asylum should be proposed. Finally, I would say; we have been waiting for him for so long. Similarly, we can be pleased to see the European Commission proposing to unify the reception framework in a regulation this time, not in a directive, so that the same rule applies to all. Many of us have defended this measure and I remember talking about it myself when we discussed our migration policy in this Chamber in October 2019. This is not just a question of Community law, because there is a real problem in the interpretation of our Constitution, which prompts us to examine tens of thousands of asylum applications from people who have already been rejected in another Member State for a second time. It seems to me that we will have to clarify the Constitution in order to avoid this situation, and I hope that the reform of the Dublin III Regulation will push us to do so, unless it allows its interpretation to be reversed by the Constitutional Council. Indeed, it is the latter who believes that we cannot refuse to consider an application for asylum on the grounds that it was rejected by another Member State. The interest of the harmonisation of reception does not end there. Indeed, the lottery of asylum applications, with more or less lenient results according to the states, creates a real race for illegal immigration for refugees who prefer to see their application processed – very long – in France, or in Germany, rather than in the country of entry. We are all aware of the consequences of this situation with regard to the delays in processing asylum applications, which clearly do not honour our country. That being said, I believe that our greatest failure lies in the total inefficiency of our return system. On French soil alone, only an obligation to leave the territory in five is honoured, which means that, each year, about 60000 people invited to leave our country remain there. France and Europe, in a common framework, must give themselves the means to send the rejected back home, including by conditioning the international aid and cooperation, and even the visas that we grant, to the return of the people to their country, because otherwise it is the whole system that is biased. In this respect, the European Commission is right to make returns a central point of the review of our reception policy, but it should link it to the cooperation policies and visa policy, which we should have in common. Countries that do not want to receive migrants or refugees must contribute to the return policy, or even participate financially in helping those who are ready to develop effective solidarity with those who suffer. It is hypocritical to notify the rejected that they must leave the territory without applying these measures. In this, too, we must empower ourselves to act and cooperate with other countries for the effectiveness of these returns. Finally, how can we not talk about our relations with our neighbours on the African continent? While all the issues I have mentioned above must be at the heart of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, our relations with our closest neighbours should be a central point. The development of the African continent can be mutually beneficial to us, and the EU must play a role in facilitating relations between Europe and Africa. It would seem normal for countries that do not want to receive migrants or refugees to contribute to the return policy and, possibly, financially support States that are prepared to show effective solidarity with those who suffer. It is hypocritical to notify the rejected that they must leave the territory without applying these measures. To ensure the effectiveness of returns, we must empower ourselves and cooperate with other countries. I usually say that Africa, which will be populated by 2.5 billion people in a few years, can be a great partner and a great market, but also a formidable danger if it does not develop and if we do not help it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u62	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u63	In 2019, of the 272 million international migrants and migrants, 2.7 million immigrated to the European Union, or just 1%. Most migration takes place within countries of origin or towards neighbouring countries. It is therefore mainly the poor and developing countries, as they say, that welcome migrants and migrants. The European states too often show a disproportionate hostility towards migrants and migrants – an hostility that is only equal to the predations they frequently commit in their countries of origin. This political attitude has consequences. According to various estimates, since 1993, at least 50000 people have died trying to cross the external borders of the European Union, mainly in the Mediterranean. And since 1999, more than 300 people have died in Calais and its region trying to cross the outsourced British border in France. There is an urgent need both to redefine the terms of the public debate on migration, which is too often monopolized by xenophobic discourse, and to reshape our reception policy. 'Indignant', 'unfair', 'irrational': these are the epithets by which the associations qualify the future reformed Dublin III regulation, which is supposed to be the European response to this crisis of reception. The European Pact on Immigration and Asylum presented by the European Commission shows the will to strengthen the impermeability of European borders, to increase solidarity between Member States in reception and to facilitate expulsions. Several dimensions of this agenda are very problematic and appear to be very insufficient to ensure a dignified reception for these people who, in the vast majority, arrive to find refuge. The reasons for their migration are multiple and diverse, but everyone now agrees that they do not move with joy and that their journeys have been very violent and traumatic. We are not collectively up to the challenge. Harmonisation of the processing of asylum applications between European States is a problem because, so far, this type of approach has always been done at the bottom, to the detriment of the rights of the persons concerned. The creation of a solidarity mechanism, which is supposed to deburden the reception arrangements of the States of entry into the European Union, remains a dead letter, since, since its creation, no country has complied with its commitments to relocate. The proliferation of hotspots at the EU borders and reception centres responsible for examining asylum applications under a new accelerated procedure is a practice contrary to law and to all international conventions. But it makes expulsion easier, so we don't hesitate! The draft revision of the return directive, the proliferation of readmission agreements and the blackmailing of Schengen visas are, from our point of view, odious. It has been incarnated by the visa blackmail imposed by Emmanuel Macron on the Maghreb countries by France. As for the strengthening of the fight against illegal immigration and the movement of asylum-seekers on European territory, it leads to the proliferation of borders and walls against people who no longer even have the possibility to apply for asylum. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] In short, European and French policies are an affront to the human dignity of those who come to seek refuge on our soil, as well as to our own right and principles. In France, we are in favour of a dignified welcome in France and Europe. This is possible: there is no invasion; There's no submersion. There is a political choice that has been made for decades: that of refusing to accept for political reasons. I repeat, we are wrong about this policy and we are in favour of a dignified welcome at the French and European levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u64	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u65	Wednesday, November 24, 2021, twenty-seven people drowned in the English Channel; who died because of migrants. They were women between the ages of 22 and 46, men between the ages of 19 and 46, a 16-year-old and a 7-year-old. A World Inquiry reports that these people called for help from the French and British authorities when the boat started sinking. In vain. The European border control policy, the established barriers, are killing. These human tragedies continue to demonstrate this, and they are not the fruit of fatality. First, they are the result of a policy that pushes exiled people to risk their lives a little more. This policy draws blood borders around Europe, with a cemetery sea, forests populated by weakened migrants and mountains inhabited especially by children and the dead. In this speech on migration policies, I would like to have time to talk to you about those who join us and bring wealth; I would like to have time to talk to you about those who, in this country, show great solidarity on a daily basis. But I feel obliged to remind you that in 2021, according to the International Organization for Migration, the number of human lives lost on migration journeys exceeded 4470. And according to the NGO – non-governmental organisation – Caminando fronteras, the score for 2021 would even be much higher, since 4400 migrants would have died or disappeared only by trying to reach Spain. Faced with the proliferation of these tragedies, the fundamental nature of the right of asylum should have led European States to reaffirm the unconditionality of reception, to ensure respect for the rights of persons and to apply the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, the Geneva Convention. And when I talk about reaffirming, it's obviously not just about speeches, it's about actions. Far from these basic requirements, the European Union and the Member States have reduced the migration issue to a threat and adopted a defensive or even coercive logic. The strengthening of border protection, with the building of ever-higher barriers, the very restrictive Community visa policy, the development of the Frontex agency, watered with millions – but very little controlled – during the adoption of each European budget, and the outsourcing of border controls, subcontracted to neighbouring countries, have helped to consolidate the fortress Europe. I would add that the lack of solidarity on a European scale leaves very few countries in our Union, the countries of first arrival, which often feeds on powerful nationalism. Since the agreement between the European Union and Turkey in 2016, the largest refugee shelter in Europe seems to be designed primarily to deter migrants from coming – and this policy has been confirmed. In essence, the free movement of goods, capital and people, often praised by those who claim neoliberalism, seems to be reserved only for the wealthy and the well-born of the North. President Macron has already set the tone for the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. He called for a reform of the Schengen area so that, in his words, Europe would protect its borders in the face of migration crises. Many associations, and not only them, are, however, talking first of all about a crisis of reception: I obviously agree with this analysis. We affirm that fortress Europe is a project doomed to failure; we see it every day. The implementation of the Convention is based on measures and practices that violate human rights, the observance of which is officially one of the universal values common to the Member States of the European Union. The Dublin Regulation, which is unfair to the European border countries, prepares for the dark days of hateful and dangerous conservatism. The structural political deadlock that the EU has been facing since 2015 cannot be resolved without the acceptance of migratory movements. We urgently need to change our paradigm, because we are, in particular, at the dawn of a global warming that will cause the forced displacement of tens of millions of human beings across continents. Our unique compass must be a dignified welcome that respects fundamental rights and freedoms. The opposite would lead us all to the drift and rise of obscurantism. That is why we solemnly call on you – perhaps in vain but we must – to play a leading role in the European Union in order to break away from a logic of deterrence and containment of migratory flows, strengthening border controls and increasing returns to countries of origin. We ask you whether France, which will preside over the EU Council for six months, is determined to promote an ambitious reform of the right of asylum in Europe and to favour the establishment of safe and legal access routes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u66	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u67	As the President of the Republic recalled when the Taliban took Kabul last August, France has a duty of humanity: to protect all those most at risk throughout the world; All those who flee persecution and violence because of what they think or what they are. From the beginning of this legislature, the Government and the deputies of the majority have taken up the issue of the right of asylum with arms and bodies and have ensured that our country maintains its status as a homeland of human rights. This commitment was first reflected, in the context of an unprecedented increase in asylum applications due to the 2015 migration crisis, in efforts to boost budgets and an unprecedented increase in the resources allocated to OFII and OFPRA – French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons. We have thus set a clear course: to better welcome those who need it. We have also worked nationally to significantly reduce the processing times for asylum applications, which sometimes exceed 18 months, placing applicants in unacceptable distress situations. I can testify to this in my territory through the case of the Getü family, rejected from asylum after more than three years of procedure. The spectre of expulsion, while this father of family and his two sons were fully integrated into the social life of the commune of Saint-Genis-de-Saintonge, arouses the incomprehension of the inhabitants. The health crisis associated with the covid -19 epidemic has not allowed us to fully achieve our goal, but it must remain a priority. We must bring those who are not entitled to asylum back to the border and avoid, whenever possible, these human tragedies. In addition to the increase in the number of asylum-seekers and beneficiaries of international protection in recent years, France is also faced with significant changes in profiles, with a greater prevalence of vulnerable profiles. To address this issue, last May the Government launched an action plan, based on consultation with the voluntary sector and key institutional actors, to improve the identification and management of vulnerabilities of asylum-seekers and refugees, in line with the objectives of the Reception Directive. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche), I would like to welcome this initiative, which demonstrates the desire to provide effective and tailored responses to the specific needs of those whom we are intended to welcome on our soil. However, as the President of the Republic pointed out, France's action must be part of an organized and fair international effort, particularly at the European level. Faced with the challenge of climate change, accompanied by situations of conflict and geopolitical destabilization, France and Europe are likely to be exposed to an intensification of migratory flows. This perspective suggests a temptation for some of our European neighbours to withdraw or renounce our founding values, as evidenced by the building of walls in Hungary and, perhaps, tomorrow in Poland. At present, cooperation at European level is insufficient. The European Commission recognises that the Dublin III rules place a disproportionate burden on a few Member States, in particular the countries of first entry, Greece, Italy and sometimes France, and that they encourage irregular and uncontrolled flows within the Union. These rules create both operational difficulties for Member States in terms of transfers – they are currently implemented in only 11% of cases – but also numerous violations of the fundamental rights of asylum seekers, as in the Greek hotspots set up following the 2015 migration crisis. As pointed out in the excellent report by MEP Fabienne Keller of the Renaissance delegation, the ineffectiveness of the Dublin Regulation weighs above all on migrants, who have already suffered trauma in their country or during their journey to Europe. The months and even years of administrative wandering and insecurity are a new trauma and benefit to human traffickers, who maintain a grip on migrants through prostitution or forced labour networks. This situation feeds into human tragedies that we all know, like drownings off the English Channel. But it's not a fatality. I am pleased that the Government has identified as a priority for the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union that of a sovereign Europe, capable of controlling its external borders and meeting the migration challenge, by redefining a political organization that allows us to defend our values of fraternity and solidarity, our tradition of reception and the right of asylum invented once on the European continent. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Pending a complete overhaul of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum, the French Presidency of the European Union is a unique opportunity to open a regular and institutionalized dialogue on the subject, and to lay the foundations for a new European governance whose objectives will be to harmonise our rules on asylum and refugee support, to establish simpler and more coherent procedures and to integrate solidarity mechanisms aimed at avoiding non-cooperative games – which we have unfortunately seen for several years – between Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u68	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u69	On 24 November, twenty-seven migrants tragically died in the English Channel off my constituency. These deaths bring to the fore, perhaps for the first time in the national territory, the failure of European migration policy. Why could these people illegally entered Europe, brought to death by Lukashenko's dictatorial regime, not imagine having a better life in Europe than in the United Kingdom? How can we collectively accept that European countries close their eyes to the transits of illegal migrants on their soil, all of whom prefer to have them cross their territory as quickly as possible so that they are the responsibility of the neighbour? Let us not be deceived: in the coming months or in the coming years, we will not achieve an effective reform of the Schengen area or of the European migration policy, as the differences are important between the interests of the countries of first entry, transit and eastern Europe, despite the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. However, there is an urgent need to reform this system, in particular the Dublin Regulation, which is no longer even applied, in particular by France. Thus, on average, only one third of the migrants who could be "dubbed" by our country to another European country have actually been. Some countries even refuse to apply this regulation, such as Hungary, which rejected 97% of French applications in 2020. The lack of results of the European migration policy is a danger to the whole of the European construction, as it gives the impression that France would do better alone, which is obviously a chimera. However, it is not all on the shoulders of the European Union alone, the reform of its regulations and the adoption of a new migration pact. France's responsibility is full, whole and immense. Indeed, there is no obligation for our country to continue to embolize its asylum system by continuing to examine asylum applications for migrants who have already been rejected elsewhere in Europe. An accelerated review procedure for rejected applicants could thus reduce the number of such applications, which are referred to as "rebound flows" and which weigh for one third of asylum applications registered in France. Since 2017, significant welcome efforts have been made by the Government to support migrants. I am thinking of emergency reception, accommodation for asylum seekers, the additional resources allocated to administrative detention centres and the reinforcements of the border police. But all these efforts are imperceptible for part of the population, especially for the inhabitants of my constituency in Calais, Calais, where tension is rising because of the inaction of the Government. The absence of the state exacerbates the inhabitants, who express a legitimate sense of abandonment. It unfortunately fills the cemeteries of the bodies of young Kurds, Sudanese or Eritreans who died at sea, struck by a TER – regional express transport – or crushed by trucks. Wild camps, a kind of mini-jungles, multiply near the houses in Calais, Marck, Sangatte and Coquelles. Dismantling operations are not effective: the CRS intervenes to evacuate the camps and, ten minutes later, it is the same circus that resumes for three days, with terrible nuisances for the residents and the threat of death that hovers on the migrants' heads because of the smugglers or the cold that settles. However, places of accommodation are open, far from Calais, to protect migrants, to rip them off from the claws of smugglers and finally to give the inhabitants of my constituency the calm and security they deserve, like any French citizen. But you refuse to force the migrants there. The only concrete solution, Mr.Minister Delegate, is to force illegals to take shelter in these centres. With the detention for the right to stay, you have the legal possibility to do so. What are you waiting for? How many more deaths will be needed for you to finally act? Because of your fault, the Calaisis becomes a playground for the extremes, between, on the one hand, associations no border, which daily violates the decrees prohibiting the distribution of food in the economic zones, at the risk of attaching to it and killing the migrants, as has already been the case three times in the last weeks in the Transmarck area, and, on the other hand, the British who want to hire an unhealthy arm of iron with France on migration policy. In the midst of these clashes, there are the forces of law and order, which counted 17 wounded during the last intervention. Of course, I wish these CRS a speedy recovery and I express my deepest indignation after yesterday's release of a migrant who had participated in these attacks against the law enforcement forces. We also find, in the midst of the clashes due to your inaction, the firefighters and rescuers at sea who, every night, every night, save lives at sea and on earth. We finally find the population, abandoned to the point of sometimes doing justice itself, as was the case on the evening of the new year, when a migrant beat a resident of Calais before being driven over by the car of a relative of that latter. This is also the case with the return, for several nights, of dams on the port bypasses or motorways of Calaisis. It can't last any longer. That is the concrete result of your policy on the ground. Deputy Minister, we are tired of it; We are all exasperated in Calais and in my constituency as a whole. We ask you to take action before it is too late to save the lives of migrants and restore tranquillity to the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u70	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u71	I am honoured to represent the Government in this parliamentary oversight debate on the reception of migrants in the European Union and the reform of the Dublin III regulation, as the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union has just opened. I would like to thank the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats for choosing this topic, not only because of the current situation in Europe, but also because the current migration situation in France is marked by a number of tragic incidents which Mr Dumont has just reminded us. If we are no longer in the situation of a migration crisis that we experienced in 2015-2016, we must continue to manage its consequences, while migration flows have been the subject of a heinous instrumentalisation by Belarus since June 2021. That is why, if we are to prevent a destabilization of the European Union and its Member States, its common policy on asylum and immigration must be radically reformed. As a first step, I want to go back to the resumption of migration flows and the increase in the number of asylum applications in 2021. With more than 120000 irregular entries recorded at the Union's external borders, up 76% compared to last year, the level of arrivals in 2021 is again that of 2019, after a sharp decrease in 2020 due to the health crisis. However, we remain far from the peak reached in 2016, at the height of the migration crisis, with 500,000 passages recorded. It should be noted that trends have changed since this period with regard to the main routes used: the Eastern Mediterranean and Balkan roads confirm their deceleration, while the Central Mediterranean road – Libya and Tunisia – became the main entry road, with 53% of arrivals in 2021. The resumption of migration flows has its roots in two important geopolitical causes: on the one hand, the instrumentalisation of the migration issue by Belarus, which led to the arrival in Europe of more than 8,000 people, even though more than 45,000 attempts at illegal entry could be avoided; On the other hand, the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan, which led to evacuations organised by all European countries. Since May 2021, France has already welcomed nearly 4000 Afghans, collaborators of our armies and our diplomatic and consular services and personalities particularly threatened because of their commitment. In the face of this recovery, the number of troops deployed at the borders has been doubled from 2400 to 4500 since November 2020, thanks in particular to the mobilization of 17.5 to 18.5 units of mobile forces per day and the use of Sentinel military personnel. This increase in funding resulted in 102635 refusals to enter the country in 2021, an increase of 65% over 2020. And 84% of these decisions are taken at our internal borders, particularly with Spain and Italy. This pressure is evident in the number of asylum applications, which show signs of recovery since the summer of 2021, exceeding the number of 2,000 monthly applications, after a sharp fall in 2020 due to the closure of the borders linked, I said, to the health crisis. The first country of origin of the first asylum seekers in 2021 remains Afghanistan, followed by Côte d'Ivoire and Bangladesh, while Albania and Georgia returned to the top ten countries of origin in the first ten months of the year. The resumption of migration flows reveals the limits of European mechanisms, which we must correct. Despite a European framework on asylum and immigration, there are still too many disparities between the practices of the Member States: this is true of asylum as well as of the control of the external border or the removal of foreigners in an irregular situation. As regards asylum, first of all, I would like to point out that France is now one of the first countries to be "rebound", as they say, asylum seekers: 30% of applications come from Dublin. As you know, in the absence of a single European asylum procedure, the Dublin III Regulation, which determines the State responsible for examining an asylum application in order to prevent multiple applications, is the cornerstone of the common European asylum system, even if it has loopholes that favour its circumvention. First, first-entry Member States do not systematically register applicants entering their external borders because they simply do not have an interest in them and prefer, in the absence of EU control, to allow migrants to move to the State of their choice. Second, as soon as a State fails to transfer an applicant to the State responsible for the application, it becomes responsible for the application after six months, or after eighteen months if the applicant himself evades his transfer. Third, applicants may benefit from material reception conditions within the State not responsible for their application, which does not encourage them to remain in the State of first entry. Beyond these structural weaknesses, the influx of migrants recorded in 2015 and 2016 has demonstrated the need to strengthen solidarity mechanisms with first-entry states. Since 2015, France has been involved in the establishment of the innovative relocation mechanism, which aims to better distribute asylum seekers among the countries of the European Union from the first entry states. Under this scheme, France relocated 5029 people in need of protection from Greece and Italy between 2015 and 2018. In addition, since June 2018, France has been participating on a voluntary basis in relocation operations to relieve first-entry states responsible for the rescue of migrants at sea by NGO ships. In total, since June 2018, France has welcomed 1271 people in this context. In 2020, the French authorities also pledged to relocate 1000 people from Greece, including 900 asylum seekers, 500 unaccompanied minors and 400 vulnerable people with families. At the same time, France strengthened its resettlement objectives by signing a bilateral agreement with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). During the 2018-2019 period, our country had achieved its target of 10,000 resettlements. For the period 2020-2021, the reception targets had to be adjusted to the level of 5000 to take into account the context of the health crisis, which led to an interruption from March to July 2020. The other part of the bilateral agreement signed with UNHCR aims to allow the resettlement of asylum-seekers in France after investigation and security screening. Since the signing of the agreement, 1835 refugees of different nationalities have been received in France, 240 of whom in 2020-2021. With regard to the limits of European controls at the external borders, I would like to point out that only effective protection of these borders guarantees a European area where freedom of movement and security are guaranteed. At present, however, differences between Member States in the quality of controls at external borders significantly undermine the smooth functioning of the Schengen area from a security point of view. As the President of the Republic said on 9 December last in his presentation of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union: "To prevent the right of asylum, which has been invented on the European continent and is our honour, from being lost, we must absolutely find a Europe that knows how to protect its borders. It is this concern that France defends in the context of the discussions on the European Pact for Immigration and Asylum, and the reform of the Schengen border codes. I therefore come to the content of this pact, tabled by the Commission to reform the common asylum and immigration policy. First, with regard to strengthening control at the external border, a first regulation introduces mandatory filtering for certain categories of third-country nationals, in particular those apprehended during an irregular crossing of an external border, those who have applied for asylum at the border, those who have landed after a rescue operation at sea, but also third-country nationals for whom there is no information indicating that they have been checked at the external borders and have crossed them legally. Screening, carried out within five days, will allow identification or verification of the identity of these individuals, health and safety checks and a vulnerability assessment. Another major innovation of the Pact is the replacement of the Dublin Regulation by a regulation establishing a framework for the management of asylum and migration which will ensure a fairer balance between the principles of responsibility and solidarity which must govern the asylum Europe. The first-entry State's liability criterion is maintained, but the duration of responsibilities is increased to three years instead of six months in most situations. Material reception conditions shall be granted only in the Member State responsible. A duty of solidarity is established in the event of pressure affecting one of the Member States, as well as for persons rescued at sea, solidarity which can take various forms: relocation or support for return, among others. A third regulation, known as crisis and force majeure management, must enable a rapid and appropriate response to situations of mass influx, in particular through necessary procedural adjustments and a more supportive European response. In addition to these regulations, the Pact provides for an amendment to the Eurodac Regulation, to strengthen the exchange of information between Member States and to allow better monitoring of migration routes within the European Union, as well as the introduction of an asylum procedure at the border, which is mandatory in order to distinguish more quickly those persons who are not eligible for international protection. However, these new tools introduced by the European Pact must be complemented by a strengthening of the Schengen area against security threats. This is the aim of the revision of the Schengen Borders Code, which should make our common area of freedom, security and justice more robust, secure and resilient, with the possibility for Member States to take additional measures in case of instrumentalisation of migration or epidemiological context, in order to deal with security or health threats. Strengthening the Schengen area also requires strengthening its governance and governance. As the President of the Republic said on 9 December, it is necessary for a Schengen forum to be set up in order to ensure regular high-level monitoring of these issues. A specific formation of the Justice and Home Affairs Council would allow for a more operational and lively embodiment of these subjects. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The issue of controlling migratory flows is a fundamental issue for our future. Recent history has revealed the dramatic consequences of the flaws in our devices. The President of the Republic wishes to make the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union an opportunity to reform them in depth, in order to achieve a Europe that is both more solidarity with those of its members who are in the front line and more sovereign vis-à-vis third States that seek to put pressure on it by instrumentalising those that war, misery, and tomorrow global warming will precipitate on the roads of exile.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u72	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the length of questions and answers is limited to two minutes, and no more. Mr Dumont asked that the group he represented could ask a question, which was not intended; I accepted and he will ask a question at the end. Mrs Yolaine de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u73	Together with the Members of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, I am pleased that this first French Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 15 years has dared to work on the issue of immigration and asylum. The subject is delicate and reveals cultural differences in the member countries. Facing the case shows French ambition in Europe; We can take pride in it. Yes, a renovated Dublin regulation is more than necessary; Yes, we must adapt Frontex to the situation; Yes, we need to modernise the Eurodac database; Yes, the Member States must share more equitably and humanely the burden of receiving asylum seekers, it is an emergency for the Union. Of course, the pressure is strong: 64% more migratory flows in the first eight months of 2021 compared to 2020. The recent events in Belarus, as well as the tensions with our neighbour from overseas, have reminded us of terrible images of 2015. Pope Francis himself points to the European collective failure on the reception of foreign populations and the brutal refusal to take care of the distress of these human beings, speaking of a "wreck of civilization". But we can do this by boarding our partners. This is an opportunity that France must seize with the semi-annual presidency of the Council of the Union. I am a member of the Committee on Migration of Refugees and Their Children of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. I support a draft report on the media and political treatment of these people during election periods. Deputy Minister, we must regain the optimism of the European ideals of the founding fathers, of our poets and historians, in order to drive away this cynicism which animates a Europe contaminated by intergovernmentalism. In our feverish concern, we have created a monster from scratch: the migrant, an undesirable and problematic figure, forgetting that the Europe we have built since the Middle Ages, through slow and fragile sedimentation, is the result of this normal phenomenon of migration. As we enter a crucial election year for our country, I ask you what efforts are being made not to stigmatize these populations and not to use reception for electoral purposes that are harmful to human rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u74	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u75	Thank you for your question, Madam Member; I know how much attention you pay to these subjects. As I recalled earlier, the Government has undertaken numerous actions since the beginning of the quinquennium to respond to the challenges in the area of migration, with seriousness and professionalism: in this area, that is also what we need to talk about. Unprecedented efforts have been made to reduce processing times, creating more than 200 OFPRA protection officer posts and increasing the number of shelters under the national asylum system by almost 30,000. With regard to removal, the law of 10 September 2018 allowed for the removal of numerous obstacles, by extending the period of detention for the verification of the right of residence to 24 hours and the detention to 90 days, allowing to reach an unprecedented level since: 19,000 forced removals in 2019, before the health crisis. The doubling of the hours of civic training, in the framework of the Republican integration contract, has given new tools to succeed the integration of the first arrivals. [[Mrs. Yolaine de Courson smiles]] I see your eyes: I come to your question, but I'm still trying to follow my thread. There is no reason why the electoral period should interrupt, in this and other areas, the public action of the Government and the majority, the resolute action of the State services, prefectures and law enforcement officials. You called for watching and being vigilant during an election. It is true that these periods are not the most conducive to peaceful debates. I'm glad they can be this afternoon, at least until seven o'clock.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u76	Um!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u77	In addition, we should draw inspiration from the example of Germany, which was in the first line in 2015 and 2016 on migration issues. It can be seen how the political debate that took place recently in the German national elections has been conducted in a peaceful framework on these issues. Basically, it is not so much what the Government is doing, it is what each of us is trying to do. Our attitudes and the proposals that we will make each other, in the context of a normal democratic debate, will allow us not to use this subject to create polemics or oppose the French to each other.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u78	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u79	In continuation of my introductory statement, I will ask you two questions. Firstly, can you clarify the objectives and deadlines of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union regarding the new European framework for the management of asylum and migration? Secondly, at the national level, what measures do you envisage for our compatriots to see the beneficial effects of our migration policy? In particular, what are the ways to improve the reception of first-time arrivals in the territories and to speed up their integration? How do you intend to activate the levers of circular migration professional and student, with beneficial effects for France and the States of origin? Finally, how do you intend to activate the relentless struggle against smugglers, who are the first responsible for human tragedies such as those in Calais? Unfortunately, smugglers have not been mentioned in the mouth of my colleague Dumont, who preferred to accuse the State and not the first responsible people, of whom it must be said in this Chamber that they are exploiters of human misery. They must therefore be combated by all means. What actions can you take to fight the smugglers, who are our first enemies?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u80	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u81	It is a bit of a challenge to answer all these important questions in two minutes, but I will try to do so. I should like to begin with the question of smugglers, since you have rightly pointed out that it is also necessary to identify those responsible. The first thing to look at is the development of sea crossings, which is due to the strengthening of surveillance and control mechanisms, which smugglers try to bypass. The strategy of the deployed security forces' device is to prevent the launching of water by means of area controls on the road network leading to the beaches or by means of interventions on the beaches by neutralizing the nautical equipment. Technology has also been strengthened to increase coastal monitoring capacity. At sea, police and migration control operations are almost impossible to carry out given the extremely fragile situation of migrant boats, which sometimes refuse to take care of. Under these conditions, there is a serious danger to the safety of human life. Most often, France has no alternative but to intervene on the basis of international law governing search and rescue at sea. Moreover, we act on smugglers to prevent them from acting at the source. Secondly, you asked me about the objectives and deadlines of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I have recalled some of them: the European Pact on Migration and Asylum is one of the main issues, the President of the Republic has had the opportunity to remind him in recent days or even in recent hours. You are aware of the divisions that have long been affecting negotiations on this subject. We are seeking to proceed gradually during the French Presidency; The first step is to achieve concrete results on partnerships with third countries and rapid legislative progress on the Regulation on the registration and control of irregular migrants at borders. We have ensured that the following two Presidencies, the Czech Republic and Sweden, are involved in these matters and steps, so that this work, of which it is well known that it is a long-term task, can continue beyond the French Presidency. In addition, we must take into account the concerns expressed in eastern Europe about the robustness of our external border in the face of attempts at instrumentalisation. I talked about that too. I finish with the reception of the first arrivals; I said a few words. The work was devoted to the continuation of the ambitious policy initiated by the Interministerial Committee on 5 June 2018. The monitoring of this contract, the operational animation of which is entrusted to the OFII, becomes a condition for obtaining the multi-year residence card. Its content has undergone a profound renovation with regard to the hourly volume of language training, to mention only this aspect, and the introduction of an interview with a follow-up of these people. This action will have to continue in the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u82	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u83	As I have indicated in my previous remarks, the inter-two system introduced by the Dublin III regulation does not work. I would like here to state two problems that we are facing: the high mobility of some who arrive on European soil makes the rule of responsibility of the country of entry ineffective. Returns to the countries in charge of the examination of cases are almost non-existent. In 2019, only 11.7% of the "dublinates" who should have been repatriated to their country of entry were indeed repatriated. All this leaves France, in many cases, the final responsibility for examining the asylum application. It is therefore time for us to take the lead on applications, to make them abroad or at the border, and for applications on French soil to become the exception. This, however, means better organization and cooperation between States, and above all better reception for migrants when they try to join our continent. But this further integration, which is finally reflected in the European Commission's proposal, comes up against a specific French legal problem, on which I wonder. Europe is often accused of evils which are strictly French; This is the case with the Dublin Agreement. According to Article 53-1 of the Constitution, "the authorities of the Republic always have the right to give asylum to any foreigner persecuted because of his action in favour of freedom or who seeks the protection of France for another reason", even though France has entered into agreements to manage asylum applications jointly with other countries, particularly European ones. Thus, according to our constitutional law, a person must be able to apply for asylum in France, even if a previous application has already been rejected by another European country with which we have agreements. Thus, we can take all the coordination measures we want, the obligation to examine the request, to which France is ultimately subject, makes the Dublin agreement totally ineffective. Will we be able to overcome this difficulty by imposing a regulation? The growing integration of asylum policy is facing this constitutional problem. Will the transformation of the rules of criteria and reception help to solve it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u84	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u85	Your first question concerns the numbers of transfers of "dublinates" and the extensions to the borders. The proportion of so-called Dublin procedures in the asylum application remains stable, at 30%, i.e. 45000 in 2019, 26000 in 2020, for the reasons we know, and 31000 in 2021, according to the figures available today. These rates show France's exposure to secondary movements in Europe. The Dublin III regulation determines the responsible State, as I pointed out; With 3000 transfers per year carried out in its framework, for more than 30,000 requests for recovery, France is effectively transferring only 10% of the public that should be, and requalifies nine out of ten requests in national procedure – hence the need for a change in this area. However, France is, together with Germany, the first European country to apply the Regulation. Within the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, France will advance the migration pact, in order to ensure a fairer balance between the principles of responsibility and solidarity between the States of the Union, which must guide the Europe of asylum. An effective system also requires strengthening controls at the Union's external borders, through a screening procedure which, in particular, makes it possible to deal more effectively with asylum applications. Your second question concerns the broad lines of the European Pact on Migration and Asylum and the changes that the application of these new rules might entail, in relation to Article 53(1) of the Constitution. It defines France's participation in the European asylum system and the Dublin Regulation, while preserving what is known as constitutional asylum, namely the right of the authorities of the Republic to give asylum to any foreigner persecuted by reason of its action in favour of freedom, in accordance with the principle resulting from the preamble of the 1946 Constitution, on which we rely. The texts proposed by the European Commission in the framework of the pact under negotiation cannot call it into question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u86	Do they create an obligation to examine?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u87	I understand your question. They do not question this principle of constitutional rank, which, by its very nature, cannot be opposed – you know at least as well as I do. The Dublin Regulation also provides that this procedure is a simple option for the Member States. I can hear the question asked; The answer is constitutional.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u88	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u89	I would like to ask you, Minister Delegate, about human rights violations at the borders of the European Union, in particular the role of the Frontex agency. Normally, the role of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency is mainly to assist the Member States of the Union and the Schengen area in securing their external borders. When it was set up, it had EUR 19 million a year, and it became the largest agency in the Union. Its budget now stands at 900 million euros, and 11 billion for the period 2021 to 2027. On several occasions, however, Frontex has been criticized for cases of ill-treatment and even violations of the rights of migrants. In August 2019, a joint investigation conducted by the German investigation site Correctiv, the German public radio group ARD – Arbeitsgemeinschaft der öffentlich-rechtlichen Rundfunkanstalten der Bundesrepublik Deutschland – and the British daily The Guardian accused the agency of tolerating abuses committed by border guards in Hungary, Greece and Bulgaria. The charges also concerned Frontex agents, for example, who had expelled unaccompanied minors. A year later, in October 2020, a new investigation by several media outlets, including Der Spiegel and The New York Times, reported the involvement of Frontex agents in the illegal refoulement of migrants to the Aegean Sea. In fact, these accusations date back several years since, already in 2011, Human Rights Watch estimated that migrants and migrants intercepted along the Greek-Turkish border by Agency staff were sent to detention centres and kept there under particularly degrading conditions. France, which will preside over the Council of the European Union for the next six months, must act firmly and decisively to ensure that this agency, which plays an important role in the Union's migration strategy and policy, respects the fundamental values that our continent prides itself on protecting. In particular, it must establish genuine democratic control over its activities. In addition, it is essential to review its missions and the allocation of its resources, in order to give priority to the rescue and reception of migrants, rather than to illegal refoulement to the borders.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u90	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u91	The Frontex agency makes an indispensable contribution to the control of the external borders of the European Union – which you do not question; its action guarantees a European area of freedom, security and justice, safer and more functional, under sometimes difficult conditions. Serious allegations concern potential refoulement and degrading treatment of migrants – what you are alluding to. They are the subject of several investigations carried out by internal bodies and independent bodies at European level. It is essential that we shed light on these supposed facts, and it will, of course, be at European level. Respect for fundamental rights is not negotiable, neither at the external borders, nor within the Schengen area: it is a point of view that we share. The revision of Frontex's mandate in 2019 provides for increased requirements for monitoring respect for fundamental rights. It is being implemented, in particular for the organisational dimension, with the continuation of the recruitment of fundamental rights monitors. As you said, the question also concerns the means, which are necessary for Frontex to develop its action while respecting conditions of efficiency but also of humanity. In order to be quite precise and transparent on the figures, the agency will have 6,500 people in 2022 and 8000 in 2024, with the goal of reaching 10,000 people by 2027, which represents a significant increase and will undoubtedly allow Frontex to carry out its missions more effectively.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u92	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u93	Last December, in Calais, I was able to see how alarming the fate of exiles was. They are harassed every day, chased from one place to another. Theft or laceration of tents and personal effects becomes the norm. From dismantling to dismantling, nothing is done to ensure their safety or a dignified reception. In addition, associations are constantly criminalized. They must, in addition to helping migrants, bear the repeated attacks of the law enforcement force, on the orders of the State. Many actions are being taken to discourage the settlement of migrants and the work of associations and solidarity residents. For example, associations are obliged to organize food distributions through the various prefectural decrees prohibiting access to certain places. Every two days, they are obliged to look for places where they can help, give food aid to these people. The international human rights observers are, for their part, excluded by the police, which – you will admit, I hope – is not the role. These repeated abuses, this daily harassment set the tone for the conservatives of all hairs. I am thinking here of the video of a gun attack on migrants that an elected national rally shared on social networks. Deputy Minister, I am not asking you to find the right balance between the left and the right: respect for human rights is not a balance – they are respected or not respected. In Calais, obviously, people's rights are not respected. It is your responsibility to ease tensions by taking the path of people's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u94	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u95	I will answer you on a specific point before going on to more general considerations. With regard to the video you mentioned, checks are under way to determine its nature and origin. I know that you too are demanding: we need to know exactly where it was filmed and under what conditions. Indeed, one cannot claim facts – you do not, moreover – in the absence of certainty about them. With regard to the laceration of tents, they were committed by private companies, which did not have to do so; The Ministry of the Interior issued a circular stating that this could not be done in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u96	In front of the police! Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u97	Furthermore, you are right that the migration situation on the coast of the départements of Nord and Pas-de-Calais must be monitored very intrusively. It is ensured by the Ministry of the Interior, in particular by the Minister, who has the desire to conduct a balanced action while avoiding the reconstitution of places of fixation in unworthy living conditions. You stressed that associations must exercise their prerogatives as associations that come to protect migrants. However, forgive me for pointing out in my turn that they are, like everyone else, subject to the law. It is therefore not unusual for them to act within the framework of the law and he alone, even if no one is there to question their action with migrants, which is often very useful, it can be understood. The strengthening of the system during the health crisis resulted in new social marauds, the distribution of food by the People's Relief, at the request of the State services, and the installation of showers and toilets, with the logistical support of the urban community, thus Dunkirk and the city of Grande-Synthe. As far as health care is concerned, a permanent medical system is also planned, with civil protection, which complements social actors such as the Red Cross and Médecins du monde, to ensure permanent access to Dunkirk's care, by organizing transport from Grande-Synthe. Important resources are devoted to this. You're right, we have to take care of the reception conditions. No one says the situation is satisfactory, but we are trying to improve things, to ensure that these migrants are welcomed in at least decent conditions – I dare the word.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u98	That'd be pretty good already!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u99	Mrs Cathy Racon-Bouzon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u100	The journey of unaccompanied minors (MNA), once arrived on our European soil, after having crossed many land and sea borders, continues to be chaotic, particularly as regards access to education, vocational training, apprenticeship and, finally, employment. While the desire to go to school is often one of the driving forces behind the young person's migratory journey, his schooling in France, even if guaranteed by the right to education, is often a journey sown with obstacles, made complex by the lack of harmonisation of law and statutes. If the young person is recognized as a minor and placed under the protection of child welfare, he or she may work as part of the internships necessary to obtain a diploma. But if he becomes a major before the end of his academic career, the situation becomes more complicated. The legislation allows it to be accompanied until the end of the school year started; The follow-up depends on the right of residence granted to him, sometimes undermining schooling and sometimes well-initiated integration. A minor alien who is cared for by the child welfare services at the latest at the age of 16 is admitted to his or her residence on his or her own right and can thus be granted a one-year temporary residence permit with the reference to "private and family life", while a minor who is cared for after the age of 16 can only be entitled to an exceptional admission to stay. This inequality raises questions. In addition, those who have been taken care of after 16 years must make a new administrative application to obtain a residence permit marked "employee", "temporary worker" or "student". However, waiting times often penalise their academic career and prevent them from completing the internships they require as part of their diploma. Reestablishing equality between these young people, avoiding new obstacles, in a course which has generally already involved them. Dry exits sometimes lead them into the hands of networks that force them to break away from a process of integration, for which France has nevertheless begun to invest morally and financially. Is it possible to extend the period of validity of the work permit granted to MNAs until the end of their school curriculum, in order to avoid sudden interruptions of training, and to generalize the granting of residence cards "privacy and family life" for all unaccompanied minors, regardless of the age of their care by social assistance for children?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u101	Good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u102	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u103	Thank you, honourable Member, for this question on a subject to which I know you are very attached, since you have raised it in other parliamentary debates. You are right to point out that the Government is sensitive to the issue of securing the right to residence of unaccompanied minors who are receiving social assistance for children; its action contributes to ensuring this. For minors who have reached the age of majority, the legal framework provides for a number of ways of admission to stay: a route of right for single minors who are covered by social assistance for children at the latest at the age of 16 years; an exceptional way of admission to stay, for those who are in care between 16 and 18 years of age and who justify at least six months of vocational training, under certain conditions laid down in the Code of Entry and Residence of Foreigners and the right of asylum. The circular issued by the Minister of the Interior on 21 September 2020 provides for an early examination of applications for residence permits, in order to avoid breaches of the rights of minors placed at ESA – social assistance for children – at the time of the transition to the majority, a subject that you are rightly concerned about. In addition, in the context of exceptional admission to stay, prefects have discretion to deal with particular situations. Certain situations arise in particular, such as those of isolated minors who are pursuing secondary or university education in a diligent and serious manner. Given these elements and what we are already doing, we do not believe that there is a need to change the existing framework to achieve the objectives you are talking about, which the Government shares.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u104	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u105	The action plan to strengthen the care of vulnerable applicants, launched by the Government last May, provides for the deployment of 200 places for asylum-seekers and LGBT+ refugees in reception centres for asylum-seekers with a general purpose. I would like to welcome this initiative, which will make it possible, on the one hand, to respond more effectively to the specific difficulties faced by this public, in particular with regard to isolation, and, on the other hand, to offer specific support prior to the interview to OFPRA, through the development of agreements with LGBT+ associations. However, there are still room for improvement for full deployment throughout the national territory in the coming months. First, a number of questions persist on the implementation of procedures for identifying and reporting vulnerabilities. Pre-hosting conditions in single asylum centres (GUDAs) do not guarantee confidentiality arrangements compatible with the collection of sensitive data, such as sexual orientation or gender identity, which may hinder the identification by the services of OFII of a possible vulnerability. At the same time, the procedures for reporting by associations are not harmonised, nor formalised, at the level of the regional directorates of OFII and may raise concerns about the privacy of applicants. The strengthening of the network of "vulnerable referents" should help to overcome these problems. Can you provide an overview of the work undertaken in this regard? In addition, a number of operators are reluctant to go into the proposed scheme as part of the call for expressions of interest aimed at the specialisation of accommodation places in favour of the LGBT+ asylum-seeking public. The pricing currently proposed under the day package does not take into account the additional constraints set out in the specifications, resulting in an uncompensated extra cost for the structures. In this regard, does the Government intend to propose a tariff increase to take into account the specific and one-time charges associated with the implementation of these special accommodation spaces for LGBT+ audiences, following the model of what exists for victims of trafficking in human beings? Such an increase would encourage partnerships with LGBT+ associations, which have specific expertise in accompaniment to this vulnerable public and strengthen their career path of professionalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u106	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u107	You want me to commit to go further on the measures taken to protect LGBT asylum seekers. As you said, the Government has taken unprecedented measures to protect LGBT asylum seekers under this five-year period. For several years, OFPRA has seen a steady increase – even if it is still a minority – in asylum claims due to sexual orientation or gender identity. The whole asylum chain has taken into account the particular vulnerability and needs of LGBT asylum seekers, which is a major step forward in the quinquennium. As part of the "vulnerabilities" plan launched in May 2021, training for these audiences has been strengthened and is taking place as soon as the application is registered at the Single Window, in order to enable the OFII to take this into account as soon as possible, without ignoring the fact that the asylum-seeker does not have to report, at this stage, information on the grounds for the asylum application. However, we must remain vigilant on this matter. Specialized accommodation places have also been identified within the national reception system: 200 additional places have just been labeled for the reception of the LGBT public. The operators concerned have received specific aid from the State to adapt the reception conditions in these places, according to the existing configurations and the needs expressed. As we have done throughout the quinquennium, we will adjust, if necessary, those arrangements which seem to respond to a particular and specific situation, even if further measures are likely to be necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u108	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u109	I'll have two questions. First, since Brexit, Calais and Calaisis have become a border area with the United Kingdom, therefore for the European Union: the evidence, Frontex flights are chartered and pass over Calais, off the English Channel – in accordance with a request I have made, in various parliamentary reports, following the Brexit. There are European funds for the territories recognised as being bordering on the European Union: does France intend to trigger this type of aid, particularly in the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and ask the European Union to accompany the territory of which I am a financial representative, given the migratory situation we are experiencing? My second question concerns the creation, over time, in the territory of Calais and Calaisis, of mini-camps or mini-jungles which are courageously dismantled by the forces of law and order. In that regard, 17 people were deplored in a recent intervention, as a migrant had been released yesterday while he had participated in the attacks against the police, which was deeply scandalous. Can you imagine a device that would force migrants to be sheltered? Indeed, if places exist in France, they are empty. Migrants are offered shelter places, but remain in the territory of Calaisis, causing extremely important disturbances for residents and businesses. Very serious problems also arise for themselves, who can be killed because they are in the claws of smugglers, in small canoes to cross the Channel or near economic zones, where associations distribute food in violation of the decrees prohibiting it. The consequences are dramatic, since last week there was another death in the Transmarck economic zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u110	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u111	I know your justified concern in a territory that is particularly affected by these issues. First, relations with the British: you are right, we have become a border zone. In order to limit the passages in the English Channel, France continues to remind its partner – who must take his share –, with a great demand, of the need to undertake the necessary internal structural reforms and to extend the routes of access to entry and residence, in order to satisfy the demands of the British economy and companies for foreign resources. Following the Franco-British Treaty of 18 January 2018 on strengthening cooperation for the coordinated management of the common border, a joint action plan against the sea crossings of the Channel was drawn up in 2019. These measures are accompanied by a financial envelope of 62.7 million euros for 2021 and 2022, with the aim – on the French side – of financing the deployments of the reservists of the national gendarmerie and the national police assigned to the surveillance of the coastline and the equipment for the detection and security of port infrastructures. In this regard, you are right to stress the involvement of law enforcement and other actors – state services, local authorities – who are involved in making things happen in the best possible conditions. Their self-denial, their courage, especially in a number of circumstances, must be praised to ensure that things are done at the best. You have mentioned on several occasions the question of the European funds that can be mobilised. Several of them finance actions related to border management – notably the Integrated Border Management Fund, which includes an instrument on border management and visas. For the period 2021-2027, this instrument has a budget of EUR 6.38 billion. The European Social Fund (ESF) is better known to those who deal with European issues: it also helps to answer these questions in terms of migration. Finally, with regard to coastal camps – linked to the phenomenon of small boat crossings – the State's strategy is both to prevent their recovery and to provide shelter where necessary. The evacuation of camps takes place either on the basis of a court order or on the basis of a flagrance under the authority of the prosecutor every two days, in order to avoid prolonged fixation points: this case of action does not allow for evacuation operations to places of accommodation, at the risk of constituting an assault. Three permanent reception centres, in the form of reception and situation review centres, have been opened in the department. A very important humanitarian scheme has been put in place, with the State taking over €20 million a year, without equivalent in the other sites of migratory presence on the national territory. Of course, much remains to be done, and the mechanisms I have just mentioned do not include coercive measures as such. However, since the dismantling at the end of 2016, of the Lande camp thanks to the continuous efforts of the State and local authorities, the size and number of people in these camps is ten times lower than that known for the period from 2015 to 2016. There is still much to be done, I repeat, and you are right to stress this, but much has already been done to try to move forward on these complex issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u112	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1115.u113	Next meeting, Monday, 10 January, at 4 p.m.: Discussion of the bill in favour of self-employment. The meeting is adjourned.
