ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u1	[[Mrs. and Mr. the deputies and members of the Government rise and observe a minute of silence]] We learned with emotion the death of José Évrard, Member of Parliament for the third riding of Pas-de-Calais, last Friday. I extend to his family, on behalf of the national representative, our sad condolences. In tribute to our deceased colleague, I invite you to observe a minute of silence. The President has received, pursuant to sections L.O. 176 and L.O. 179 of the Electoral Code, a communication from the Minister of the Interior dated January 10, 2022, informing him of the replacement of our late colleague by Emmanuel Blairy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u2	The next item is the debate on the bill in favour of self-employment (No. 4612 corrected, 4811).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u3	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u4	I am pleased to see you again for the public discussion of the bill in favour of independent professional activity, and thus to continue the action of my colleague Alain Griset, very committed on the subject, which gave rise to the presentation of the "independent" plan by the President of the Republic himself. Let me also welcome the work we have been doing together, with the special committee on the bill, since 14 December. I would like to thank the President and the rapporteurs and all the members of the Special Committee, who have already marked this text with their mark, thanks to the amendments adopted last December. As you know, this bill is the cornerstone of the self-employed action plan announced on September 16. At the very least, such an initiative was expected, since almost three decades ago there had been no comprehensive plan for self-employed workers. While provisions had been made in some pieces of legislation, including financial laws, a comprehensive vision, articulated and divided into coherent measures, had been lacking since 1994 and the Madelin law on initiative and individual enterprise. This plan is aimed at the 3 million independents in France: entrepreneurs, artisans, traders, liberal professionals or company leaders. In charge of meaning, he gives life to a body of values to which we are particularly attached, Bruno Le Maire and I, and which hold in one formula: entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship is, for an entrepreneur, to see what others have not seen before him; it's going to adventure, to conquest; it is fighting with all his strength to create a project and to make it grow; sometimes it's willing to fall in order to get up better; Anyway, it's taking his chances. This is all the way to create value and make the blue-white-red economy work better. Entrepreneurship is noble. Every day, 3 million self-employed people make him live, and for that we owe them a lot. That is the reason for all the measures that have been adopted throughout this quinquennium. Since 2017, the Government and the parliamentary majority have taken many steps to improve the daily lives of self-employed workers. In addition to the reliefs of charges, such as the removal of the business property tax (CFE) for those with less than 5000 euros of turnover, we have simplified the procedures of the self-employed, in particular – you remember – by abolishing the RSI, the social scheme of the self-employed. Our ambition is, however, to go further, in response to strong demands from entrepreneurs, who wish to be better protected from accidents of life and better accompanied, from the creation of their company to its transmission, but also to benefit from simplified access to information and procedures. Beyond the bill today under discussion, the plan includes fiscal and social measures that you discussed in the context of the Financial Bill (FPL) and the Social Security Financing Bill (SSP) for 2022; These measures, which came into force some 10 days ago, are therefore already of benefit to the self-employed. They were waiting for implementation as they respond to the urgency of the health crisis and provide concrete solutions to some of the problems they face. I am thinking of the validation of the pension rights of the self-employed, who were affected by the health crisis, regardless of the loss of activity. The effects of the crisis on the payment of daily allowances have also been neutralized in order to protect the social rights of the self-employed. I am also thinking of the measures taken to facilitate the transfer of undertakings, whether for transferors or for repossessions. For example, the exceptional tax deduction for the depreciation of commercial funds acquired from 2022 to 2025 represents a real reduction in costs for the recipients. Think about it: an independent person buying an establishment for 100000 euros can deduct from the taxable income of his business the amortisation practiced in accounting, i.e. an annual amount of 10000 euros per year for ten years. Similarly, the increase in the limits for the exemption of capital gains realized during the divestitures of individual undertakings will support the transferors in the transmission of their business. Finally, I am thinking of the doubling of the tax credit for the training of managers of companies with fewer than ten employees, which will enable them – we hope – to make more use of it. The bill before us today meets a twofold requirement: on the one hand, to strengthen the protection and support of the self-employed, and on the other, to simplify their daily lives and their actions. As regards the protection and accompaniment component, it should be recalled that being an entrepreneur means accepting an economic risk; It is a decision to embark on a project which we hope will be successful but whose outcome is not known from the outset. But let me remind you that in 2020, France reached a new record with 840,000 business start-ups, 4% more than in 2019. This trend continued quite interestingly in 2021, since more than 900000 companies were established in France between January and November. Such dynamism reflects both a high level of confidence in the future and the creative dynamics at work in the country. Nevertheless, the current crisis has exacerbated the risks and difficulties faced by entrepreneurs. Therefore, we can only be satisfied with the progress made in this bill. We have thus decided to accompany each entrepreneur as part of his training or as he seeks to bounce back. Article 10 creates a unique protection of personal assets for the exercise of a professional activity in its own name. From now on, only the elements relevant to the individual entrepreneur's professional activity can be apprehended in the event of a failure. Since 2015, thanks to an advance allowed by the President of the Republic, who was then Minister of Economy and Finance, it is already no longer possible to seize his principal residence. This bill allows us to go even further: tomorrow, it will no longer be possible to seize the personal property of any contractor. This is a considerable step forward: it will help to avoid a double penalty for the self-employed who, in addition to professional difficulties, had until now to manage a risk to his personal wealth and naturally affecting his private and family life. In view of the amendments tabled on the text, I would like to reassure the Members who have asked us on the specific subject of farmers. The bill does not call into question the specificities of their activities or the exceptions they enjoyed through the EIRL scheme – a limited-liability individual company. We will have the opportunity to return to this in our debates. The bill will also facilitate the transformation of an individual enterprise into a society. Such simplification, resulting from a unanimous demand from professionals, is essential in order to increase the fabric of French SMEs. The text then aims to accompany entrepreneurs' rebound, allowing them to become eligible for the Self-Employed Workers' Allowance (ATI). We thus raise a number of locks, locks which, in the first version of the ATI, prevented it from benefiting a large number of them: all those who will cease their activity because it has become economically unsustainable will now be able to benefit from it. We will specify by decree that the assessment of this criterion will be based on the evolution of their income downwards, which will have to reach 30% from year to year. In particular, I thank Mr Dominique Da Silva for his mobilisation on this subject and for his amendment, adopted in committee, which removed the deadline for the operative part in 2024, which was added by the High Assembly at first reading. In addition, the Government and the rapporteurs have tabled an amendment to ensure that the monthly amount of the ATI cannot exceed the average monthly income received by the self-employed over the previous period of employment, to which his entitlement to the allowance is subject. A ceiling will therefore be introduced, but a floor will also be introduced to ensure that the amount of the ATI can never be less than 600 euros. The use of the ATI will also be limited in time: the same person may benefit from the ATI at most every five years from the date on which he or she ceased to benefit from the ATI under an earlier activity. Finally, one of the decrees provided for in the text will complete the reform by relaxing the criterion according to which the entrepreneur must have received 10000 euros of income per year for two years in order to receive the ATI: this criterion will now be required only for the best of the two years. This is a major, fair and equitable easing measure, which will allow more self-employed people to benefit from the scheme. The rebound of the self-employed will also be facilitated by a measure allowing the debts of contributions and social contributions incurred by majority managers of limited liability companies (SARLs) to be eliminated in the context of an over-indebtedness procedure for individuals. That is the purpose of clause 8 of the bill. The second part of the bill concerns simplification. As you know, many independents experience daily irritants; This is often the case in electoral districts, which find it difficult to find the information or device that could be useful to them and that they could benefit from. Our goal is to simplify their legal environment, access to information and training – which they use too little. In 2019, only 16% of the self-employed benefited from training funded by a training insurance fund. Hence the idea of merging the training insurance funds so that entrepreneurs engaged in craft activities have only one body responsible for managing the contribution to training. As regards simplification of the legal environment, I will mention four essential measures. The first – provided for in Article 6, deleted by the Senate – aims to empower the Government to legislate by order in order to clarify the rules common to the regulated liberal professions. The proposed reform is based on previous reports and has been the subject of consultations with professionals. However, given the diversity of the professions, we wanted to continue consultations to adjust the reforms to the expectations and needs of each profession. We want to be tailor-made. The Government has tabled an amendment to restore this authorization and to carry out this reform, which has been requested for many years by the regulated liberal professionals themselves. With the second measure, provided for in article 11, the Government draws conclusions from several decisions of the Constitutional Council on the discipline of accountants. In particular, we propose to increase the number of judges in order to improve the efficiency and functioning of disciplinary bodies. The third measure aims to protect and simplify the activities of artisans. The provisions relating to these professions are scattered between the Crafts Code and a dozen pieces of legislation and regulations, as MP Philippe Huppé highlighted in his work. That is why we want to redo all the existing measures into a single text, with a constant right, to clarify the legal environment and to secure the artisans. By the way, I would like to reassure the parliamentarians who have referred me to the specific local law in Alsace-Moselle. I reconfirm it to you: we will in no way touch the different specificities of the chambers of trades, nor the tax for room expenses. Before concluding, I would like once again to welcome the parliamentary work already done on this text, which will not fail to translate into further progress today, such as that proposed by Mr Jean-Paul Mattei in Article 1, following a hard work – I would like to thank him once again for his openness and availability. Other initiatives, coming from the opposition benches, should also be realized – I am thinking of extending paternity leave to public officials of the Chambers of Commerce and Industry (CCI). Many groups have been keen to join in this great momentum. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The discussions to come will allow me to explain other points, but we want above all to pass on the following message to the 3 million independents: dare, venture, take your risk and, in exchange, the state will be there to accompany you and not to worry. I hope that this pact with them will create vocations, ensure that there are more and more entrepreneurs, independents. That is, in any case, the meaning of the text before you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u5	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapters I and II, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u6	This text is an important part of the "independent" plan that was presented on September 16. Allow me, in the preamble, to have a thought for Alain Griset who has worked a lot on the design of this plan. I commend his efforts and his constant determination to provide a fairer and more protective environment for the 3 million self-employed in our country. Deputy Minister, thank you for taking this bill back on the fly. We were able to work together effectively to improve its content. The availability of your services and the quality of our discussions have made it possible to move forward on many aspects of the text and to obtain the answers we wanted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u7	I confirm!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u8	The "independent" plan is a coherent set of 20 measures, several of which were incorporated into the PLFSS and the PLF, which were finally adopted at the end of 2021. With this bill, we will implement five new measures in this plan. Three of them are found in Articles 8 and 9, of which my co-rapporteur Jean-Noël Barrot was particularly concerned, and I thank him for the quality of our discussions throughout our work. These measures concern the allowance of self-employed workers and the treatment of social security contributions debts of the majority managers of SARL. Two others are set out in Article 1: the creation of a single and protective status for the individual entrepreneur and the facilitation of the transformation of an individual enterprise into a company. The new statute represents an important step forward for individual entrepreneurs, which will make it possible to reconcile the simplicity of individual activity with the protection of the current status of the EIRL. Without any formalism and without prior declaration, individual entrepreneurs will now have two distinct assets, one staff and the other professional. This exception to the rule of the uniqueness of the heritage will allow them to develop their activity in complete serenity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u9	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u10	In addition, the transformation of an individual activity into a society will be facilitated. In this way, we ease the constraints that could affect the growth of an individual entrepreneur's business. Beyond the implementation of the "independent" plan, the bill also contains other measures since it included, in its version adopted in the Council of Ministers, fourteen articles, with provisions concerning regulated professions, craftsmen, accountants, or, more generally, vocational training for self-employed workers and chambers of commerce and industry. The Senate adopted thirteen of the fourteen articles proposed by the Government, which I welcome. This shows that the main thrusts of the text are consensus. In a special commission, we have taken over some of the Senate's contributions: a ban on self-assurance; acknowledgment to spouses of the power to administer their common property; articulation of the new status of the individual entrepreneur with the rules on the non-seizibility of certain immovable property belonging to the self-employed; limit of income tax (IR) to personal property only when the individual entrepreneur opts for corporate tax (IS). On other aspects, the Special Committee instead returned to the original text or adopted compromise versions. The Commission's work has been informed by the many points of view we have gathered during our discussions, in the form of written contributions or hearings. In Article 1, amendments will strengthen the framework for waiver. In this regard, I thank my colleague Jean-Paul Mattei for his rich contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u11	Very rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u12	I would also like to thank the Government, which has listened and which is proposing a comprehensive drafting of article 4, in place of the legislative authority provided for. The same article will clearly establish the maintenance of the special provisions for farmers, with a 15-year safeguard plan for all debts in the event of economic default. Article 6 makes it possible to rule out the fear of professionals regarding the opening of their capital to third parties, but the work of consultation will continue with the regulated professions, in order to arrive at the clarification and readability expected. That is why we want to give the Government the power to legislate by ordinance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This bill is important and meets expectations. It is part of the continuity of the entrepreneurial support that we have been doing for almost five years. In the context of a return to strong growth, this text will contribute to the development of our independent companies in the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u13	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, rapporteur of the Special Committee on Chapters III and IV, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u14	Since 1994 and the Madelin law, that is, for twenty-eight years, never a text dedicated to the self-employed had been examined by our assembly. That is the importance of this bill, which is the result of the President's desire to bring new rights and protections to the 3 million self-employed in our country. This is all the more important as self-employment continues to progress in our country, even as we have been going through the most serious economic crisis in a century. The number of business start-ups broke a new historical record in 2021, with nearly 1 million businesses created, including a majority of micro-enterprises. This text is part of a broader plan for self-employed workers, some of which have already been adopted in the PLF and PLFSS. In particular, they reduced the tax on capital gains when a company was transferred in the run-up to retirement, opened up the possibility of tax amortisation of the acquisition of a commercial fund, increased the tax credit for the training of managers, or neutralized the impact of the health crisis on the calculation of pension rights for self-employed persons. Among the sections of the bill that have been assigned to me is section 9, which deals with a key topic of this bill: the allowance for self-employed persons. Created in 2019, the ATI represents a small revolution since it was intended to allow self-employed people who ceased their activity to benefit from 800 euros for six months. We have found, thanks in particular to the report by our colleague Dominique Da Silva, that the conditions for granting this allowance are too restrictive. With this text, we will correct this defect. It will no longer be necessary to enter into collective proceedings in order to qualify for the allowance. It will be enough to reach 10000 euros of income in just one of the last two years to access it. The special commission also removed the deadline for requesting the ATI, so as not to limit the appeal, and voted to submit a report on the full status of the scheme five years after its implementation. This is an excellent example of what parliamentary work should be: legislate, evaluate, and then legislate again to correct and refine our public policies. Article 8, which provides for the taking into account of professional debts in the context of an over-indebtedness procedure, was adopted without amendment. This testifies to our listening regarding the need for protection of managers – in particular the majority managers of SARL – who have contracted debts, whether professional or non-professional. It provides a concrete solution to these blocking situations. As for Article 10, it finalises the simplification of the financing circuit for the vocational training of craftsmen, making France the central operator in this field. Article 11 seeks to address two problems arising from the current functioning of the disciplinary procedure of accountants. One was the result of censorship by the Constitutional Council, following a priority issue of constitutionality (QPC), the automatic revocation of the stay in the event of a new suspension penalty, which left a real legal vacuum. The other referred to the need to remove any doubt about the impartiality of the disciplinary procedure by reforming the composition of the ordinal bodies. I welcome the broad consensus on the adoption of this reform. I also welcome the initiative of my colleagues Jean-Paul Mattei and Mohamed Laqhila who have adopted a change to the name of the higher body of the order – renamed "National Council of Order" – for the sake of harmony with most professional orders. With Article 12, the text revives the negotiations between CCI France and the trade unions with a view to the adoption of a collective agreement specific to the private law staff employed by the CCIs, following the reform of the consular network carried out by the law on the growth and transformation of enterprises, known as the PACTE law, no doubt one of the most structuring of the quinquennium. The text provides that the election of the Social and Economic Committee (SEC) may take place within six months of the enactment of the law, and that the collective agreement of the Councils for Enterprises applies in the event of failure to negotiate. While several thousand IAB employees under private status are not protected by a collective agreement, it is our responsibility to ensure that negotiations are concluded as soon as possible. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] In conclusion, I would like to stress the quality of our discussions in the special committee. I thank President Annaig Le Meur, my co-rapporteur Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, the Minister Delegate, for his presence throughout our debates, as well as all our colleagues who took part in this work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u15	Mrs Annaig Le Meur, chairman of the special committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u16	Today, we are considering the bill for independent professional activity, which was debated in the Senate in public on October 26, and whose objectives and key provisions have just been introduced by the Deputy Minister. To refer to the independent professions in this forum is to refer to 2.9 million people who break our territory and create activity and employment. Professionals, traders or artisans, the independents are the face of France's daily life: not of this France of global actors who deploy their strategy to the world, but of this France of hotel-restaurant, personal services, small business, or health and social action – this France of doctors, massagers-kinesitherapists, notaries, lawyers, architects or veterinarians. France for the self-employed is France for work, commitment and effort, France for entrepreneurship and projects, France for the transmission of know-how. But it is also the France of bakers, restorers, masons or cabinetmakers, whose sometimes fragile activity makes a whole family live, and who know only too well that, when a bad wind rises, the reverse of fortune almost always turns into a personal drama. Improving the economic and social situation of the self-employed, better protecting them and enabling them to bounce back, has therefore been a constant concern of the public authorities. The social system of the self-employed had been described by the Court of Auditors, in its time, as an "industrial disaster". Removing the fund that managed the RSI to support it under the general regime so that all enjoy the same quality of service and rights was a promise of the candidate for President Emmanuel Macron. This promise was kept under the Social Security Financing Act for 2018. More recently, on 16 September, the President of the Republic presented an ambitious plan for the self-employed, consisting of 20 measures along five lines. After the time of crisis support and recovery, this plan aims to provide a fairer, simpler and more protective environment for all the professionals involved. The bill before us is a declination. I would like to pay tribute to Alain Griset, whose commitment to the service of the independents is known on all these benches and who focused this project on the baptismal fonts. As far as I am concerned, I will confine myself to a few remarks on clause 1 of the bill, which is the heart of the bill. To start an activity, to start a business, to hire new employees, is always to take a bet on the future. It is possible to carve the sails in great weather, but sometimes the next days come blunders, those of the cessation of payment, the bailiffs, prohibitions and seizures, with their procession of shame and human tragedies. Protecting personal heritage by delinking it from professional heritage is therefore not only a requirement of justice, but also the condition of rebound in case of failure. This bill, by making this dissociation an orderly principle under the utility rule, represents an important step forward in relation to the EIRL's declarative mechanism, the complexity of which explains its low success. The Commission's discussions on this point were dense and rich. We will certainly resume our discussions in the coming hours on the balance to be struck between equally legitimate interests: those of entrepreneurs who need capital to finance their business and those of banks and credit agencies whose loans must be repaid. Our fellow rapporteurs of the special committee, Jean-Noël Barrot and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, whom I welcome and thank, have already spoken in detail on the other provisions of this text. So I don't think it's necessary to go back. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] The committee discussed the bill in a constructive and trans-partisan spirit. I have no doubt that this will be the same this afternoon and tonight in session.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u17	In the general debate, Mr Jean-Louis Bricout spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u18	Here we are gathered again – I welcome Mr Alain Griset – to look at the translation of a presidential promise to reshape the legal regime that applies to self-employed workers. It was at the meetings of the Union des Entreprises de Proximité (U2P) on 16 September that the President of the Republic announced a plan to support the 3 million self-employed workers – artisans, traders, liberal professionals, etc. If this plan is intended to meet the old demands of the self-employed, it will have taken more recent mobilizations – the yellow vest crisis, the strikes of the end of 2019 – for the Government to show a minimum of consideration for these 3 million citizens whose economic role, importance for employment and spirit of entrepreneurship are no longer to be demonstrated. The text that we are interested in is far from effectively complementing the provisions adopted in the framework of the PLF and the PLFSS for 2022 to constitute a plan to support the challenges, expectations and promises. Unfortunately, it will remain a taste of incompleteness. A brief analysis of the inconsistency or inadequacy of the main articles suffices to convince us. First, Article 1 seeks to protect the private heritage of the individual entrepreneur while providing for the possibility of waiving such protection. According to the opinion of the Council of State of 28 September, this renunciation could undermine the protection created by the bill because of a well-balanced balance of power. Thus, when a contractor needs to borrow to finance the purchase of premises or equipment or to develop its business, banks will continue to apply for a personal bond. Secondly, Article 9 extends to the margin the restrictive rules on access to the allowance for self-employed workers while restricting their cumulation over time. While the creation of a third ground for opening the ITA is welcome, it is not an exhaustive response. Questions arise, in particular, about the rules governing access to the device, the contours of which remain unclear. On this point, we will propose to remove, or at least reduce, the incompressible five-year period between the termination of the ITA benefit and new access to this benefit. It also seems important to combat the non-use of this allowance. Thirdly, Article 12 aims to complete the reform of the KIC personnel management rules initiated since the PACTE law of 22 May 2019. While the collective agreement to apply to all IAB staff was to be adopted before the end of 2020, the situation remains blocked to date. Despite this fact, Article 12 does not entrust the State with the role of arbitrating a social dialogue at the end of the judgment and contains many setbacks for CCI staff. On the basis of our discussions with the social partners concerned, we will propose a number of amendments on this subject. We will begin by calling for the deletion of this article, which appears to degrade the IAB staff rules. If we fail to do so, we will propose, always by amendment, that the presidency of the national representative body of the staff of the KICs be entrusted to the State and that the current scope of the collective agreement to be negotiated be retained, which must extend to all persons employed by the KICs and not be reduced to persons employed directly by them. We will also ask you to stop applying the Syntec collective agreement to CCI and CCI France staff if the negotiations fail, to remove the six-month period between the promulgation of this bill and the creation of the SSCs within each KIC, and to provide for the appointment of a mediator in case of failure of the negotiations between the social partners. However, there is a small reason for satisfaction in Article 12: I believe that we share the desire to align the duration of paternity leave for ICC public officials with the common system. We welcome this social progress, however modest it may be. Beyond the points already raised, this text unfortunately remains incomplete, since it does not deal with social protection and the way in which self-employed workers are represented using platforms. This point is also the subject of a specific text aimed at ratifying Ordinance No. 2021-484 of 21 April 2021. Again, the preferred method of law-making and the content of the text do not satisfy the representatives of the platform workers. [[Mr. André Chassaigne applauds]] In the light of our analysis of the provisions of the text, the Socialist and Related Group will define its vote according to the fate which will be reserved for the progress we propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u19	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u20	We are about to discuss the creation of a new statute for the self-employed. In truth, however, the purpose of the text before us is far more important than this question alone. On this occasion, I thank Alain Griset for everything he has done so far – and for what he will continue to do in the future, I have no doubt: if we are gathered today, it is also thanks to him. [[Smile on the benches of the commissions]] France is one of the few countries to possess so much artisanal know-how and traders. This diversity is envied throughout the world. But what binds the cutlery of Thiers or Laguiole, the chapeliers of Montazels or Caussade, the dentelliers of Puy or Magalas, or the manufactures of Caudry and Calais? What brings together the Licières de la Savonnerie, the artisans of Sèvres, the Baccarat, Daum, Saint-Louis or Lalique crystals, or the glassware of Biot and Bréhat? What unites the manufacturers of the Sète pot, the small pâtés de Pézenas, the wonderful pie of Herepian, but also and above all of the pissaladière of Antibes or the socca of Biot or Nice? Finally, what brings together the winemakers of Champagne, Bordelais, Burgundy, but also Languedoc, notably Saint-Chinian, Faugères, Saint-Jean-de-Minervois and Adissan? All these artisans, these traders, these 3 million men and women are on two points. The first is the construction of a common space for more than 2000 years. This is what we owe to those who are now called the independents: they have built our France, the France we love. For 2000 years, they have structured landscapes and built cities. Our medieval cities owe their existence to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u21	He's talking about gold!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u22	The second is risk-taking: the self-employed share this will, unusual in our time and so particular to entrepreneurs, to take a risk and assume it. They accept it to feed their families and to develop their commune and territory, of course, but also, let us not forget, to enrich France. For this reason, when the French conquered citizenship in 1789, they took an example of artisans and farmers: they were free men in a free nation. That is why the reform that we are going to discuss is of paramount importance. Let us recall that it was preceded by the adoption of the finance law for 2022: to forget it and to focus solely on the text we are looking at would be to conduct an incomplete analysis. Our action is part of a whole that, from the first Macron reform – the law of 6 August 2015 for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities – until today, benefits artisans and allows them to live in the territories. As the Deputy Minister, the Chair of the Special Commission and the rapporteurs have indicated, the many sections of this bill are relatively technical. But the key point is the willingness to change the status of the self-employed. This reform, which provides for the salariing of risks, is a far-reaching reform. That's the important thing. The key point of this text is the emergence of a new status, characterized by the distinction between professional and personal heritage. In this way, we will allow artisans to answer for their debts only on the assets they have committed. We will also offer them a future, since after falling – which sometimes happens when you start a business – the self-employed will be able to recover. So far, it was always difficult to bounce back after liquidation or judicial reorganization. If this bill is passed, it will now be much simpler. Training, transmission and co-op status are also important issues addressed in this bill. Finally, this form of unemployment benefit, which is self-employed workers' allowance, will allow entrepreneurs, both men and women, to change their profession after five years if they need it. This measure is very important because it offers them flexibility that has not existed so far. In the face of a changing world, it is normal to socialize risks. This will allow the 10% of self-employed people to no longer live in fear but to regain confidence. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, if we want France to be big in the world, support artisans, traders and liberal professions in the face of change. Let us dream together of a world in which know-how, slow learning, the taste of beauty would be synonymous with the word "France".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u23	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u24	In the preamble, I would like to say a few words about Alain Griset, who took the time to come and talk to our group and with whom we worked well. He has invested heavily in this project for several years. This bill bears its leg, and that deserved to be pointed out. The text we are studying is the legal translation of the "independent" plan announced by the executive last September. The UDI and independent group defends on a daily basis our 3 million independents, whether they are traders, artisans, professions or farmers. We know how essential they are to our daily lives and our territories, whose presence and vitality they provide for. We must salute their courage, dedication and tenacity. This bill gives a strong signal in favour of self-employed workers, which is very significant in a context of difficult economic recovery. Many have taken full advantage of the direct or indirect effects of the health crisis. This text, which draws the consequences of the failure of the statute of the EIRL, aims to extend this protective regime to a greater number of self-employed workers. It continues to seek to clarify the status and strengthen the protection of the personal assets of self-employed workers, which is a real step forward. No one can dispute the positive nature of this approach. But beyond intent, it is now necessary to develop an effective mechanism to achieve this objective of clarification and protection. Through our amendments, we want to help the Government turn the test into success, without anyone being left behind. As we know, even the 2015 Macron Act did not ease the banks' pressure on entrepreneurs' access to credit – that is a fact. The more the law protects the personal assets of entrepreneurs, the more creditors develop strategies to circumvent this protection in the name of the necessary guarantee of the loan. This is further verified with Article 1 of this text, which allows, with disconcerting ease, to derogate from the protection of personal property which this bill intends to bring to all these professions. Within the IDU and independent group, we demand real protection of the personal assets of the self-employed. More than necessary, it is often vital. How much, after this health crisis, will lose everything? Whatever their legal status, the play of personal bonds imposed in bank credit offers has had the effect of extending the professional disaster to the personal circle, resulting in the most shocking private and family dramas. With this in mind, we must have the audacity to ensure the effective protection of the assets assigned to the entrepreneur's personal and family environment. It is high time to ban double punishment. The introduction of a public guarantee, which we propose to you, would reduce the risk of professional failure. This is how entrepreneurship is made of failures and successes. Entrepreneurs gain in excellence based on their ability to recover. However, this is no reason not to protect them or to inform them more. Within the IDU and independent group, we want to ensure that they have access to more information, in particular on the insurance schemes they can benefit from. Finally, we want to create a privileged, trust-based human link between self-employed workers and their credit institutions. A charter of good practice, drawn up jointly by the parties' representative bodies, would be a real step forward. We also wish to pay particular attention to the specific issue of the protection of agricultural land. Farmers should not lose the possibility of distinguishing these lands from their personal heritage. [[Ms. Annaig Le Meur, Chairman of the Special Committee, applauds]] As you will understand, the independent IDU group welcomes this bill. At the same time, however, we ask you to have the courage of your ambitions by adopting the amendments that will make your measures effective. The many self-employed people who follow our debates will be all the more grateful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u25	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u26	Over the past forty years, there have been recurrent and violent crises that have upset economic life. When large companies have benefited from a tailored economic policy and employees, from a secure labour right, the self-employed have often found themselves in situations of vulnerability, with the risk of their personal assets being swallowed up in the event of failure. There have been some attempts to implement protective regimes. Thus, since 1985, limited-liability commercial companies can be made up of a single partner. As for entrepreneurs who exercise in their own name, they have been able to make the choice, since 2010, of the limited liability individual contractor regime. But the evolution of the profile of the independents and the last torments they had to face revealed the shortcomings of these statutes. In view of the current economic situation and the health crisis, more and more of these workers face the major risk of their professional debts being recovered in part from their own property. This is why the Libertés et Territoires Group is in favour – with certain reservations – of Article 1, which creates a new status for the individual entrepreneur, according to which personal assets become by default elusive by creditors. We doubt, however, that the criterion of utility, chosen to distinguish assets belonging to the professional heritage from those included in the personal heritage, is effective. Just take a few examples to see the limits: some people work at home, in a space designed for this purpose, others use their personal car for professional purposes. How, in these cases, do we distinguish between personnel and professionals? The matter has been referred to an order-in-council, without the application of this measure being explained to us at this time. On the other hand, we are surprised that the distinction proposed in Article 1e r does not apply to the right to pledge by the State and social protection bodies concerning part of the taxes and all social contributions. The State should, however, set an example. We will therefore propose that the general right of pledge enjoyed by the tax administration should not apply to the collection of property tax once individual contractors have opted for corporate tax. In this respect, I am not satisfied with the solution that has been found to allow the independents to opt for corporate tax, since their tax-free turnover exceeds the ceilings of the micro schemes. Section 13 of the 2022 Finance Bill, which deals with the issue, creates a fictitious EIRL, a vector of legal insecurity – our colleague Mattei had pointed out this during our debates. For my part, I am convinced that the solution would have been to create a special self-financing reserve – I regret that the amendment I tabled to that effect was declared inadmissible. I also fear that the effects of this reform on the protection of the personal property of individual entrepreneurs will not be as expected. We run the risk that the most important creditors, including banks, will systematically require special security rights in certain assets or even a simple waiver of the benefit of the separation of assets. A few words, also, of Article 9, which extends the criteria for the allowance of self-employed workers. Established in 2018, it has not yet found its audience. Indeed, the eligibility criteria, particularly those relating to the cessation of activity, have proved to be far too restrictive. As well, the changes made by the bill are in the right direction: an entrepreneur who has failed must be able to rely on emergency assistance without waiting for a judicial liquidation procedure. Similarly, Article 10, which provides for the unification of the financing of the vocational training of artisans by allocating the sums collected to a single training insurance fund, under ordinary law, provides a welcome simplification. The last text on self-employed workers was in 1994 – this was recalled by several speakers. We therefore welcome the fact that this bill, together with the measures in the PLF and the PLFSS for 2022, partially remedyes this situation. However, it will have to be perfect and legally secure in order to receive our full approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u27	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u28	The activities of the 3 million self-employed and independents involved in this bill cover a wide range of realities: from the head of the farm, who owed himself several million euros to the small peasant maraîcher, from the liberal architect to the construction worker acting, intermittent and intermittent artists of the show who see their dates cancel one after the other to the bike-carriers, not to mention the artisans, the traders, the freelancers, the start-ups and I pass. Among these professions, there is one in particular, which has all too often been forgotten by applause and our debates in the current period. Our colleague Caroline Fiat, who has worked hard on this text, wanted to highlight it because it is dear to her heart. I want to talk about the buralists. They too were essential...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u30	... because they have been able to maintain social ties, especially in small municipalities, by remaining open even if they did not always have the means of protection and by offering essential products as well as, above all, contacts. We would like to extend our thanks to them, as well as to all the essential workers who have helped us and continue to do so during the crisis. The La France insoumée group supports the stated objective of Article 1 of this text, the separation between personal and professional assets for individual entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, the idea being that in the event of bankruptcy, banks will not be able to recover their dues from the personal assets of the independents. However, the current wording suggests that this protection, like the promise of their unemployment compensation, will be a magnificent pierced barrel. Indeed, if the entrepreneur or individual entrepreneur can give up this separation with a creditor for a specific commitment, how can he guard against the risk of blackmail, for example on the part of the banks? That is why we propose to remove the possibility of abandoning the separation of assets. Apart from this measure, we regret that this bill is no more substantial. Indeed, there would be so much to say and do about the status of the self-employed. At a time when the civil service is being stymied and the labour code is increasingly protecting private employees, the status of self-employed or self-employed is often popularized by neoliberals precisely because it is very little protective. A whole rhetoric accompanies this shift towards fewer social rights: one should thus value risk-taking, the desire to undertake, flexibility or mobility. However, let us remember: even in the innovation and research sectors, the best results are obtained when workers are not afraid the next day. So why keep millions of self-employed and independent in this fear? We observed this in the context of the crisis of the covid-19: without the unemployment insurance which worked at full level, millions of workers would have brutally turned into poverty. The independent and independent, on the other hand, have suffered the health crisis for many, precisely because they have very few social rights while too often being forgotten by the aid schemes. INSEE estimates that 100,000 independents and independents lost their status in 2020. EMPs, government-guaranteed loans, are difficult to repay for some, as rents have continued to accumulate. Our proposed amendments provide answers to the concrete problems that arise. The postponement of the start of the repayment of EMPs by two years, together with the creation of a defacilitating fund that would take over the unsustainable debts of SMEs and independent and independent companies, would thus help to loosen the financial structure. Similarly, the creation of a public banking hub, which we also call for, would make it possible to finance the discount of zero-rate SMEs. More broadly, in order to prevent bankruptcies, we will propose the establishment of a public support service for SMEs in difficulty. Even today, whether it is in the areas of events, sport, culture, agriculture or transport, the independent and independent are the hardest hit by the current situation, a logical consequence of the precariousness of their status. A January INSEE study shows that inequalities between self-employed people are much greater than between employees, with 18% of the former below the poverty line compared with 5% of the latter. The reasons are obvious, starting with minimum social protection, whether in case of loss of activity or in case of illness or disability: 45% of the self-employed report having to postpone care for financial reasons. In order to address this problem, we believe that access to the allowance for self-employed workers should be facilitated: we will defend an amendment so that the minimum time limit between two applications is no longer set at five years, as provided for in the text. In summary, our proposals aim to improve the incomes of these workers. And we regret, once again, that the Government is doing nothing against their poverty. Our group, La France insoumise, hopes that in the future, these professions, which have a fundamental place in the social and economic fabric – this has been stressed – will really be regarded as a spearhead from this point of view and will be much more socially protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u31	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u32	In recent years, self-employment, motivated by the desire to be more self-reliant, to find a better balance between work and personal life, to regain meaning and ethics in work, has hidden a wide variety of situations. The self-employed group together a large number of professions in everyday life, ranging from the trader to the farmer, from artisans to the liberal professions, all of which are characterized by a lack of social protection. According to the Government, this text has been developed to provide a simpler and more protective framework for entrepreneurs at the time of the start-up of the enterprise, and to support them throughout the course of their activities. To achieve this, the flagship measure is the creation of a new individual entrepreneur status, which is based on a legal regime for the separation of assets in order to better protect personal assets. The idea is excellent, but as too often in the Government's texts, there is far from the lipcut! Indeed, as many of our colleagues in committee have pointed out, unfortunately there is much to bet that the effects of this reform on the protection of the personal property of individual entrepreneurs will not be those expected. You wish, Mr Minister Delegate, the rapporteur, Mr rapporteur, that the right of pledge of creditors should be limited to the sole professional property, but you are planning exceptions which, failing to take account of economic power relations, deprive your petition in principle of its content. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the scheme, you should have removed the contractor's right to waive the protection of his personal property, prohibit the bonding of his personal property, or guarantee at least, without possible waiver, the unattainability of his principal residence. Otherwise, the banks will be able to continue to impose their will tomorrow! I agree that a tightening of the scheme would probably have led the independents to face more difficulties in obtaining credit, but there was nothing to prevent you from thinking about a public guarantee scheme for the loans subscribed by the entrepreneurs concerned. We are convinced that it is necessary to provide our country with a large public bank capable of financing the necessary public and private investments, and to offer zero-rate loans to accompany entrepreneurs. You also propose, in order to better protect the self-employed in the event of a failure, to relax the conditions of access to the ATI. It was an expected measure that we could have welcomed. However, in addition to the fact that you do not reassess the amount or duration of the benefit, this measure is unfortunately paid in return for the implementation of a five-year default period. In addition, your text contains uncertainties, particularly for farmers, which it submits to the new common provisions applicable to all individual entrepreneurs. I have noted that you have just, Mr.Minister, removed the fears I expressed in committee, so I have no doubt that you will give us all the guarantees on this matter. Indeed, while the treatment of the economic difficulties of farmers has enjoyed a specific legislative framework since 1988 which enables collective procedures to be adapted to the particular characteristics of agricultural holdings, this text, as it stands, calls into question it, placing individual farmers on the same level as independent professions. The dissociation of professional assets from personal assets, opening up the possibility of applying specific procedures to private debt, deeply ignores the chronic low incomes of farmers which very often lead them to contract consumer loans to finance, in reality, their exploitation. These difficulties would now be dealt with by the procedure of over-indebtedness of individuals, i.e. on a maximum schedule of seven years instead of fifteen years for the current collective agricultural procedures. Your text also provides for the procedure of over-indebtedness of individuals to be opened to the professional debts of the partner operating in an agricultural company by treating them less favourably than the professional debts of the farmers in their own name, since they can now request the opening of a collective procedure for the whole of their professional and personal assets, thus enabling them to obtain a 15-year timetable which does not result in the sale of the immovable property essential for the continuation of the activity. The application of the procedure of over-indebtedness of individuals for debts considered to be professional may now lead the farmer to expose his house to the seizures of professional creditors. I have tabled several amendments to come back to these provisions. I hope they will be taken into account. Finally, you forget the workers of the platforms as they suffer the effects of a shameful circumvention of the wage guarantees. However, you were given the opportunity to anticipate the legislative translation of the recent decision of the European Commission, which establishes a presumption of wage-earning for digital workers. You will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not allow ourselves to be grayed out by the enthusiasm of the promoters of the text. That is why, in the current state of the bill, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u33	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u34	In 1994, Alain Madelin had allowed entrepreneurs to set up their own social protection, and today all entrepreneurs thank him again.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u35	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u36	This text, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly be just as memorable because it is equally important. Nearly 30 years after improving the social protection of the head of the enterprise, we are now preparing to protect his heritage and hence his family. There are more and more, as the minister pointed out, about 3 million traders, artisans, liberal professionals, micro-entrepreneurs and platform workers, who are self-employed and contribute to the dynamism of our economy. And they're asking for more protection. The bill we are considering today is part of the "independent" plan introduced by the President of the Republic last September to respond to many requests from them. It is the last link in an ambitious economic project, built during these five years of mandate, which will allow to better accompany and protect all the self-employed, from the creation of their business to its transmission. Thus, the bill provides for the creation of a single, more protective statute for the individual entrepreneur; it facilitates the transition from an individual enterprise to a company; it ensures better access to training; it allows for the taking into account of the professional debts of an entrepreneur for the assessment of his situation in the context of the opening of an over-indebtedness procedure. Article 1 is of particular importance because it provides for the introduction by default of two assets for individual entrepreneurs, one staff member and the other professional, where there is currently only one asset, unless the person concerned takes the initiative, which confuses the two. From now on, what is useful to the company – a truck or a computer for example – will become the professional heritage; what has no connection with the company will remain in the personal heritage. This distinction, which aims to protect the personal assets of the individual entrepreneur, radically changes things for many creditors. Among them the banks, with whom we discussed at length to find a way for individual entrepreneurs to be neither excluded from credit nor systematically forced to give up the protection that this text provides them. And I am happy to be able to say today that we have found this compromise necessary, thanks to the work of conviction of many colleagues; I particularly thank our two rapporteurs for this. Article 4, which deals with the insolvency proceedings of enterprises and individuals, will allow, as the rapporteur and the Government had undertaken, to respond to the specificities of the agricultural world and, in the same vein, article 8 will help entrepreneurs with debts of contributions and social contributions by making them eligible for the procedure of over-indebtedness of individuals, a request that entrepreneurs have been making for a very long time, because too many have lost more than anything they had in overwhelming and sometimes inhumane procedures, without having any possibility of getting out of it: we are opening up a way out of this text for them. In order to help the self-employed bounce back, access to the allowance for self-employed workers, created by the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose their professional future, will be mobilised from the stage of permanent cessation of activity, when it is no longer economically viable and without waiting for the stage of judicial liquidation. In return, this allowance will only be available once every five years. As rapporteur Jean-Noël Barrot pointed out, it is thanks to the evaluation work of our colleague Dominique Da Silva that we can correct this mechanism so that it becomes a real and not a theoretical right. That is how we need to legislate: to propose, evaluate and correct our texts when necessary. Finally, Article 12 proposes a solution to the blocking situation concerning the creation of a collective agreement provided for in the PACTE law for all employees under private law of the KICs. Indeed, it is strong from this provision that we will propose that the duration of paternity leave be set at one month for all employees of the chambers of commerce and industry. A little over 11 years ago, I started my business. After fifteen years as an employee, I made a real leap into the unknown. Was my activity going to work? Was my idea really the right one? How was I going to pay my expenses? I asked myself all these questions, saying that I had no right to make a mistake because it was all my family and everything I had that I was putting into play. Thanks to this text, others will no longer have to ask themselves these questions and will be able to set up their business calmly. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Philippe Huppé also applauds]] This text is important for the 3 million entrepreneurs who make the economic grid of our territories, both in rural areas and in metropolitan areas, those entrepreneurs that we helped without counting on the strongest of the crisis and that we still support, and to whom we want to give prospects for the future. It meets strong expectations expressed for a long time, and the La République en marche group will be proud to vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u37	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u38	It must be noted that the definition of work has been stifled by the evolution of our economy since the post-war period: if working previously meant only being part of a business, employment now takes on more varied and flexible forms, often allowing us to launch our own activity while reconciling work and family life. Since the 1990s, the law has consistently facilitated professional installation and aimed at protecting the entrepreneur: several of you have cited the 1994 law; For my part, I will quote the Doutreil Act of 2003. Clearly, the right has always been the right person when it comes to changing these situations. Since then, the Internet has opened up other opportunities. A multitude of artisans and traders in our country form the heart of the local economy in our territories and the nerve of the human bond. Self-employment is a vehicle for growth and innovation, and that is why we need to preserve it, value it and amplify it. Unfortunately, piloting his independent activity is still becoming part of a combatant's journey. In France, we have ideas, but we also have enough bureaucracy to break them! However, we cannot afford to ignore this manna of added value due to the 3 million women and men who have the courage to undertake alone, from hairdressers to taxis, artists and the various professions of service to the person. The spirit of my political group, The Republicans, is to defend the right to undertake for all! We are convinced that by defending self-employment and allowing the transfer of the property of the person concerned, the seeds of a more competitive and dynamic economic environment will be sown. We also believe that it is urgent to save the French social fabric, whose independents are the main players. However, the conditions are not yet in place to get out of the mistrust and to encourage the French to bet massively on independent activity. How can we succeed in being competitive when our country beats all the social security records? How to make your business prosper when you waste hours filling out administrative forms? How can we be serene when we do not understand the amount of social contributions and when relations with organizations are excessively dematerialized and de facto dehumanized? Progress is clearly expected by the entire independent profession. They must bring serenity to workers with high economic potential, often exposed to instability. Those who take risks for the benefit of the community should not be riddled with procedures and uncertainties, but should be better accompanied. That is the challenge we are facing as legislators! It must be noted that this text is an attempt to catch up. However, much more is needed. Unfortunately, promises are not kept. The work of the Senate was carefully annihilated by the majority in a special committee. It was the same majority, quick to vote on bills aimed at trust in any area, which replaced the work done by the Senate for a more humane economy with a bureaucratic vision of activity. While the Senate was committed to protecting the self-employed, the majority, for example, restored exorbitant exemptions to privileged creditors and removed the prior judicial finding for seizures. Colleagues, the legislative work is not to rewrite the texts in order to stick to the will of the Government, but rather to co-build a text in the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u39	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u40	Not only is the text not consistent with the stated desire to simplify the lives of our fellow citizens, it lacks the opportunity to breathe new life into recovery and to consolidate our growth. Indeed, the epidemic crisis has prompted an increasing number of French people to try self-employment. This pool of know-how and skills is a formidable springboard for more balanced growth. I am thinking in particular of the couples who are starting together: they would have everything to gain from the recognition of an enhanced status of collaborating spouse. Similarly, we still have progress to make in supporting the local economy, but also in promoting the recognition of a regulatory, fiscal and social ecosystem specific to self-employed workers. There is still a long way to go to give the self-employed, traders, craftsmen, professions, all the consideration and protection they deserve in order to support them because they are essential to the pursuit of growth and the construction of the social bond. [[Brigitte Kuster applauds]] At the beginning of this debate, before we consider the amendments, we hope that the text will evolve and that progress will be made, but in its current version we note that it does not keep the promise – once again – made by Emmanuel Macron in his speech of 13 January 2021. This text is not up to the challenges of the independent profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u41	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u42	We've done a good job. This was true both at the preliminary hearings with the co-rapporteurs and at the meetings of the special committee itself. This is also true of our work with you, Minister Delegate, as well as with your services. The bill we are considering is not a small piece of legislation. This is an important piece of legislation that is the final step in the reforms that we implemented during the quinquennium to facilitate entrepreneurship and remove barriers to business growth and activity. The protection of the individual operator is an old quest, which goes back many years. In 1985, the creation of the single personal LRA opened the possibility of creating a legal person alone with a limited risk. Then, at the turn of a law on research, Claude Allègre, then Minister of National Education, expanded the access of natural persons to companies by simplified shares (SAS). This has led to a real revolution, attested by the number of SASs in operation. In order to extend the protection of the individual entrepreneur, the EIRL scheme was created by the Act of 15 June 2010, opening it to the benefit of the separation of assets, the protection of the principal residence and the personal recovery procedure. It must be recognized that this has not been a great success. Section 1 of the bill, by creating a general statute for the individual entrepreneur and by stating the separation of his assets, is indisputably in the right direction. However, it constitutes a legal electroshock since it establishes a legal regime for the separation of assets which undermines the principle of uniqueness laid down in Articles 2284 and 2285 of the Civil Code. The long-worked version of the article, proposed by our rapporteurs and adopted in committee, contains a number of points such as the one already mentioned by Mr Chassaigne on the framework for the waiver of the separation of assets in favour of creditors, so that it is not diverted by credit institutions. I hope that we can further improve this aspect through our amendments. Improvements should also be made to the transmission of the individual enterprise as part of a transformation into a company. I continue to consider that the issue of transmission in the event of death and the fate of the assets previously affected may pose practical and inheritance difficulties that will have to be resolved in order to avoid observing the possibility of resumption of the activity by an heir. Whatever the fate of the amendments on this subject, it will be the subject of an interesting debate. We will also have to make sure, as I mentioned in the committee, that we improve the tax on the transfer of an IRL or an individual enterprise, particularly if it is then subject to corporate tax, initially subject to income tax. Similarly, the question of the solidarity of the contractor's assets to pay the property tax or the household income tax is, in my view, not satisfactorily resolved by this text and may pose a constitutional problem. The MODEM Group, wishing to support the Government until the end of this legislature, did not wish to table amendments other than the four proposed collectively. However, it seems to me that the extension of the right to pledge of the tax administration and other public creditors on a wider scope than at present should not be exempt from a judicial decision, in accordance with the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation. Similarly, it will be necessary to ensure that this text is not diverted by the tax administration to enshrine a definition of fraud that includes failure to settle taxation, in contradiction with tax doctrine and the right to error. Otherwise, we would risk creating a two-speed diet. Finally, and this is an idea that I have often presented to you here, we should consider the reduction of taxation in the event of a loss of value of the company between the time of its disposal and the first years of operation – I am thinking of the famous Article 151g of the General Tax Code. Finally, caution must be exercised in reforming the forms of membership of the regulated professions. An amendment by the Government provides for the re-establishment of article 6 to this effect, but leaves some doubts about the financialization of these professions. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups]] These are the axes which will guide the discussions of the MODEM Group. It will support the Government in the adoption of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u43	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u44	The self-employment bill is an important piece of legislation as our labour market and certain sectors of activity face difficulties. We are about to legislate for nearly 3 million self-employed workers. Whether they are artisans, traders, professionals, farmers, platform workers, or farmers, these entrepreneurs have chosen to take their risk. In 2020, more than 840,000 companies were created, 4% more than in 2019. We owe them protection and support. Behind the term "independent" are a wide range of situations and professions. Many have been severely affected by the health crisis for nearly two years. We already knew that they were particularly sensitive to economic hazards, the crisis of the Covid-19 once again demonstrated this by aggravating their situation. I am thinking of the workers in the hotel-restaurant, event, sport and culture sectors, who, for some, find themselves in great financial difficulty. More than ever, their need for social protection is acute, and gaps in their current coverage are no longer acceptable. By creating a single status and better social protection, this text allows them to be protected at the time of business creation and accompanied throughout the deployment of their activity. In addition, it will make it possible to simplify the different statutes of entrepreneurs by providing better readability, to renovate the legal framework for the exercise of craft activities, to facilitate the transmission of the enterprise, to simplify the financing of vocational training, and to extend the conditions for access to the allowance for self-employed workers. These measures are essential if the younger generations are to be able to create, settle in or resume activities in good conditions. It is about preserving our know-how and ensuring the sustainability of our economic fabric. The stakes are multiple for our territories and their actors. Day after day, we are mobilized to encourage the establishment of traders in our city centres and town centres to preserve and enable economic activity. Day after day, we work to ensure that more French and French people become involved in the building trades in constant development. Day after day, we are faced with the challenges of demographics in the agricultural professions and we are fighting to ensure that farms are passed on and do not disappear. In our territories, where the activity of the self-employed is as fundamental as their survival itself, we redouble our efforts to ensure that those engaged in service activities continue their actions. Protecting independents and independents is about securing existing activities, but it is also about sending a clear message to those who fear to set up. The aim of the text is to provide them with new social rights. According to article 1 of the draft law, any natural person engaged in self-employment would, in principle, be liable for his or her professional debts only on account of his or her professional assets, the latter being subject to universal inter vivos transmission, including in the form of a contribution to society. Individual entrepreneurs would thus have two assets: one professional, the other staff who would be elusive in the event of a failure, whereas today only the main residence is protected. The protection of personal property is a long-standing concern of the self-employed, especially women farmers in my constituency. I have tabled an amendment to ensure that the personal assets of individual farmers engaged in agricultural activity, when subject to an over-indebtedness procedure, can benefit from specific derogations. The aim is not to force the sale of real property if there are any, and to allow the completion of a 15-year timetable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u46	In my view, the text must evolve on this and other issues. I am thinking of the status of collaborating spouse whose benefit we limited to five years during the review of the last PLFSS. It seems to me that we must grant spouses who have opted for the status of salaried spouse the right to vote and to be eligible for elections to chambers of commerce.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u47	It's not in the PLFSS!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u48	Because the spouses are the most affected by this status and I am fully committed to equality between women and men, I have tabled an amendment to this effect. Beyond that, it seems to me essential to limit the exercise of micro-enterprise activity to three years in order to return to the objective of setting up a business as a self-employed person after a transitional status. Given the progress that this legislation is making and the need for legislation to provide more support for self-employed workers, I will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u49	I now call, in the text of the special commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u50	Mrs Fiona Lazaar, on Rule 1, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u51	The company has changed, and with it employment. Our country has more than 3 million self-employed workers. Since 2003, the number of these workers has increased by 25 per cent: it has increased ten times faster than the wage-earning population. Behind this boom in self-employment, there are very diverse situations, different statutes, different realities, but there is also a shared observation: that of the need to better protect these workers, to improve their status and to provide them with more guarantees and tools to sustain their activity, from creation to the sale of a business. That is the objective of this bill, which is fully in line with the efforts of the majority since 2017. I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the RSI or the creation of the allowance for self-employed workers which the text intends to reinforce. Article 1 has two fundamental objectives that address concerns and concerns that many of our fellow entrepreneurs have shared with us. On the one hand, it allows the creation of a single, more protective status, that of individual entrepreneurs. This is an important step forward which will allow the separation of personal and professional assets for all entrepreneurs, with some exceptions provided for by law. This is a small legal revolution which creates an exception to the common law and which will make it possible to better protect the personal property of entrepreneurs, who are only 3 % entitled to the statute of the EIRL, due in particular to a complex procedure and very heavy requirements. This is an important security and a real signal that is given to the more than 3 million entrepreneurs who are a real economic lung in our country. On the other hand, Article 1 will facilitate the transfer of the business assets of the individual entrepreneur, whether through the sale or donation of an individual enterprise, or its transformation into a company. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This article illustrates our determination to simplify the lives of self-employed workers, to improve their status and to provide them with more guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u52	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u53	I take advantage of my statement on Article 1 to make a comment: usually, following the general discussion, the Minister and the rapporteurs intervene to reply from the outset to certain questions raised by the representatives of the political groups – although the subjects in question may be raised later in the discussion of the amendments. We need to know very clearly what the text does or does not concern the agricultural world. We need to be clear and clear: either we are told that farmers are not involved in the text, which would raise concerns about some setbacks; they are concerned, in which case it should be specified by which provisions. We can agree to completely evacuate the whole agricultural area from our discussions, but if we do not, we need to know the scope of the measures applicable to farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chassaigne. We come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u55	Madam President, may I reply to Mr Chassaigne?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u56	Yes, please. If I don't, I'll call the rules!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u57	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u58	President Chassaigne, let us start the discussion calmly and calmly. You know my attachment to the agricultural world, I think I've proven it for many years. I cannot tell you that the text does not concern the agricultural world; That's not true. It concerns all the self-employed and, by definition, a farmer is also an independent. On the other hand, throughout the discussion of the text, we will reassure the agricultural world. Many amendments – including yours – have been tabled for this purpose. I hope that at the end of the discussion we will have reassured everyone by making it clear to the agricultural community that even if it is concerned with the text, it will not change anything in relation to the current functioning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u59	Thank you, rapporteur!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u60	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u61	I have a great deal of esteem and respect for President Chassaigne. Given his commitment to the agricultural world – which also spoke on other benches through the various amendments tabled – and in the face of the questions raised by the text, I had already, in anticipation, given some elements of response as part of the presentation of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u62	Yes, I heard them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u63	I do not want to suggest, President Chassaigne, that we have not answered you. I can therefore repeat what I have already said in my introductory statement. I have indicated that I want to reassure the parliamentarians who have asked us on the specific subject of farmers. The bill does not call into question the specificities of their activity – for example, I have the issue of the treatment of debts – nor the exceptions they benefit from with the EIRL – we will have the opportunity to come back in a few minutes. President Chassaigne, I believe we are ready for a constructive debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u64	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 185.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u65	Of course, we share the desire to give guarantees to entrepreneurs. We have already talked about this in a special committee: the purpose of this amendment is to restore the mechanism introduced by the Senate. The original bill, which the majority had completely reinstated in a special commission, attacked a basis of the law of civil liability under which every debtor was liable for all his debts on all his assets. As the text contains a number of frailties, the amendment is therefore intended to restore the drafting of the Senate in order to resolve the difficulties that individual entrepreneurs may face in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u67	You will understand that the opinion is unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u68	I don't know.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u69	We have indeed re-established Article 1 in committee to work in the Chamber on the basis of a clean text – forgive the expression.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u70	It's a little unfortunate, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u71	You understood what I meant. In view of the number of amendments tabled on Rule 1, I believe that all Members have been able to work. We wanted to return to the initial status of the text as submitted by the Government. As I indicated in my opening remarks, we have still retained a number of features from the Senate, including measures relating to the protection of the surety or common property. We will remain with the text as adopted in committee and we will consider the amendments tabled on this basis. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u72	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u73	Same opinion. We believe that the drafting of article 1 adopted in a special committee allows for a synthesis between the proposals made by the Government in the initial version of the bill and some of the Senate's contributions. You're talking about legal frailties, but I want to reassure you. The Council of State has of course played its role as legal adviser to the Government and, as you know, the fact that the concept of utility has been replaced by that of necessity has, among other things, really been weighed down. I really want to rule out the fear of legal fragility in view of the serious work that has been done upstream of the text submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u74	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 204, 213 and 235. Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 204.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u75	To reassure President Chassaigne, this is the first amendment which seeks to clarify the situation concerning farmers' heritage. The purpose of the contract is to remove – except in the event of a waiver – from the business property of the individual entrepreneur engaged in farming, the land he uses for his business, even if he owns it. This is an amendment that has been worked out with the agricultural unions. It highlights the extent to which the ownership of agricultural land is quite different from the ownership of any business or other professional activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u76	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 213.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u77	I fully share what President Chassaigne has said. Mr. Deputy Minister, your word is not questioned, but paragraph 9 does not say the same thing as you: under the terms of that paragraph, an individual contractor can only be held liable for his or her professional property. However, agricultural land is a professional property, although at the same time it is often the sole property of the farmer. I am quite prepared to believe you when you say that you guarantee protection for agricultural land, but in the text as it is currently drafted, that is not the case. That is why I tabled this amendment, and others. Together, we must find a way to separate the two types of heritage, otherwise farmers' concerns will not be addressed. I repeat: at the moment of discussion, agricultural land is considered in paragraph 9 to be professional land which is therefore likely to be seized. Legally, we really need to find a solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u78	I call Mr Leclabart to support Amendment No. 235.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u79	I will go in the same direction as my colleagues. Many farms will benefit from the new scheme of the individual enterprise. As such, it is appropriate for farmers to exclude from their professional holdings land which is used in the course of an agricultural activity and of which they are owners, except in the case of a waiver under the conditions laid down for any property. While agricultural land is essential for agricultural activity, it is more than just production tools and is often the sole saving for farmers. Evidence of this is that when a farmer structures his business by setting up a company, it is exceptional for ownership of his land to be transferred to the farm corporation. Indeed, in the event of economic difficulties, if the land were included in the professional property, thus constituting the pledge of the professional creditors, the farmer would lose, in addition to his working tool, almost all of his personal assets. On the other hand, this would lead to an unjustified difference in treatment between farmers taking up a rural lease, who would have no threat of seizure of the land necessary for their business and those who, as owners, should include such property in the pledge of the creditors of the business. On the other hand, the current status of the individual contractor with limited liability allows farmers to decide not to assign the land they own to their professional heritage. If the creation of the new status of the individual enterprise, and the consequential removal of the statute of the EIRL, is aimed at improving and simplifying the status of entrepreneurs and farmers whose businesses are in their own name, it would be incomprehensible to place farms in a more precarious position, by depriving them of the exclusion of agricultural land from their professional heritage, as in the current framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u81	I will try to be as synthetic as possible and to build on the current situation that exists when the bill is passed. There are three possible cases. First possibility, the farmer is in an individual undertaking (EI), not in EIRL, not in GAEC – a joint agricultural holding group –, not in EURL – a single-person company with limited liability. In this case, it does not have any special protection on its agricultural land.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u82	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u83	All its assets, whatever they may be, can be pawned against creditors. There is also the statute for EIRL – it is less than 1,000 farmers, or 0.1% of them. In this context, the farmer does have the possibility not to include his agricultural land in his professional property and to keep it in his personal capacity. I join you: agricultural land is indeed a production tool. Less than 1000 operators have chosen EIRL; Therefore, farmers did not take advantage of the opportunity offered to them under the EIRL. For those who have done so, we do not move, we stick to the status quo: if agricultural land has been preserved as a personal good and not as a professional good, this situation will continue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u85	Third, the GAEC or EURL case, in which the farmer is free from the use of his agricultural land. What is the bill doing? It removes the statute of the EIRL. As I said, for farmers who have kept their agricultural land in their personal heritage, nothing will change. For others, there will be a distinction between personal and professional heritage. But those who remain in an individual enterprise will be better protected than they were, since they can only be seized on their professional property, and thus on their land.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u86	But no, that's not what's written!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u87	But yes, that's what it says. There is a distinction between private and professional heritage. Professional goods are useful goods, so the land will actually enter professional goods. But what I would like to make you understand is that by comparing with the current situation, we are no less so-called. On the other hand, if you tell me that you want agricultural land to be out of the professional heritage all the time, that's something else, it's going beyond what exists today. I repeat, a farmer in an individual enterprise is not protected: he can be seized both on his agricultural land and on his professional property, in so far as there is oneness of the patrimony. Only those who opted for EIRL were able to allocate agricultural land in personnel and this is not even 0.1% of the agricultural population. Tomorrow they will be better protected, in any case they will not be more at the front than those who are in an individual enterprise. It's a shame I don't have a paperboard because I would have shown you a diagram, that would be clearer. I still hope I reassured you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u88	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u89	The rapporteur, referring to a table, makes me think again at a time that the under-20s have not known, when the Member of Parliament Jean-Michel Fourgous wanted a stand of didactic paintings to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u90	It would indeed be clearer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u91	Otherwise, we will still try to be pedagogic and I believe that the rapporteur has been very clear...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u92	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u93	... by describing the situation as it is today and as it will be tomorrow. I could almost sum up my speech with Mr. Leclabart's last words: "like the current framework." We simply want what exists to be perpetuated. Individual entrepreneurs, in the agricultural world, are about 234000, of which 233,000 have chosen the EI scheme and only a few hundred the EIRL scheme. It is only this latter regime that allows an exception from agricultural land. For those on this diet, life will continue under the same conditions as EIRL. For those who are already in the status of the IS, by definition their situation will be improved since their protection is now limited to the main residence and that thanks to the text submitted to you, in its Article 1, we extend this one, with the notion of utility that you know. There is therefore no fear to have: those in EIRL will continue their life in EIRL and those in EI will be better protected no matter what. Things are clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u94	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u95	Our colleagues are right to ask the question. Forgive me, Madam rapporteur, but to say that the utility criterion answers the question is incorrect.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u96	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u97	No one can dispute that the land is useful for exploitation, so nothing is changed. Farmers, but also traders, artisans, have created real estate companies (SI) or agricultural land groups (GFAs), quite simply. By placing the land in an SI or a GFA, a distinction is made in the heritage. These lands can then be leased to the individual operator. This is what many operators have done, and it is the same for buildings. When you chat with traders, artisans, small industrialists, they all tell you that they have created SIs on the company's real estate so that, if one day the situation goes wrong, they have something left. But all this, with one reservation: the attitude of the bankers. Bankers are not without common sense. If you lend a large sum to a farmer to buy equipment and ask him for a pledge, what will the pledge be? As agricultural buildings are not worth much, the pledge will be on the land the farmer owns, when he owns it. Our colleagues' amendments are interesting in terms of reflection, but the solution is not this text, it is to use structures that already exist and which are called the IS and the GFA.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u98	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u99	The point of this text is to encourage the activity of the self-employed but you are explaining to us that farmers will in any case have an interest in creating GAECs, companies, etc. That is not the point of this text. Our amendments do not require much, a small clarification that will avoid making the provisions more complex. For us, the text is not clear. If the farmers' representatives asked us to ask you the question, it was because they had the proposed measures analysed and they thought there was a doubt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u100	Don't you think I've consulted them, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u101	We simply ask you to lift the doubt so that this text really serves something. Your explanation, which I think would be little clearer with a paperboard, does not move the debate forward. Our farmers have this specificity that the professional field is also their heritage. Unfortunately, you are going to create a blur that will harm everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u102	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u103	I have understood the explanations of the rapporteur and the minister, and I share in part their analysis. The upsurges we have from the agricultural world are more in favour of the status quo than of a shift towards blurry. It must be maintained that a farmer, regardless of his status, individual or in society, depends, when he is in difficulty, on the court of great instance – now a court of justice. With this text, will farmers always depend, as they wish, on the court or will they fall into the dependence of the commercial court, which would change a great deal? Before the court, they obtain collective proceedings and a period of 15 years to remedy the situation, with the consideration of a professional situation which is usually involved in the personal situation. For example, some farmers subscribe to consumer loans, which are not actually used for domestic consumption, but to bail out the farm's finances. We must therefore be assured that they will continue to fall under the jurisdiction of the court and will not fall within the jurisdiction of the commercial court, which would mean that they would have plans for redress at seven years, not fifteen years. It is this answer that would allow us to be quiet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u104	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u105	I wish to bear witness to the mission I have carried out on mal-being and suicides in agriculture, because we are not talking here more or less about agricultural mal-being. The first cause of this ill-being is the financial problem. Then there is the problem of generations: the land was to their fathers, to their grandfathers... Finally, there is the heritage problem, and that is the discussion we have at the moment. André Chassaigne is right, but not on everything: some farmers in difficulty would prefer to be in the commercial court. And it's not seven years, it's ten years – I know it for being there. This is a complicated subject, but I am not sure that farmers, especially those who are in difficulty at present, share the view that nothing needs to be changed. I don't have the numbers; I went like you in the field, I worked for a year on the subject, and I can tell you that the heritage problem leads to suicides.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u106	Yes, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u107	Imagine, they are forced to sell their land, or we take it from them, when it comes to them from their father, from their grandfather: people commit suicide because of it. We must find the right solution and I think we are on the right path. I'm not saying that because I'm the majority, I'd say the same thing if I were in the opposition. Think of your neighbours, farmers in ill-being who, by separating themselves from some land, could improve their situation, but for whom going from a hundred to eighty hectares is sometimes something they cannot bear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u108	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u109	Mr. Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor – quickly, please. Normally, there are two statements; I've already authorized four, and I'm authorizing a fifth. Then the rapporteur will conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u110	Mr Mattei always has interesting things to say!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u111	Thank you, Madam President, for your great pleasure! I support the rapporteur's presentation on the current situation. For a farmer in an individual enterprise, the whole of his assets is the pledge,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u112	There!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u113	... including the orchard, the vegetable garden... This text provides for the concept of useful property, which limits the base within this heritage and is not neutral.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u114	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u115	If we adopt the amendments, which are far from being thin, we would withdraw the land from the creditors' pledge in relation to the activity. Farmers can certainly structure themselves, Charles de Courson is right, in GFAs and others, but they are sometimes gas plants, and we have to be very careful. This text is in the right direction. Of course, in practice, it will be necessary to adjust the definition of useful goods, particularly in agricultural matters, where there is often the notion of mixed property, which is not known whether they are really agricultural or for personal use. But at least we have a tool to move forward and, in my view, better protect farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u116	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mattei, that's right. Mr Chassaigne, you asked whether the text protected farmers less well than it did today. To this question I continue to give the same answer: this text even better protects farmers, because under the EI regime, all the heritage, including agricultural land, can be managed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u118	But here too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u119	Unless we want to ensure that, in a systematic way, whatever the status – EI, existing EIRL or future company – agricultural land has been removed from the professional heritage, there is no reason to maintain the amendments. With regard to your other issue, that of the courts, we will look at this point in article 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u120	I give you the floor, Mrs Mauborgne, if it is to withdraw your amendment, and quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u121	That's right, Madam President. In view of the arguments of the rapporteur and Mr Mattei, I will withdraw the amendment. It seems to me that the important thing is to respect a balance in the choices that the farmer will make. These amendments introduce a systematisation which may result in farmers being deprived of financing if it is too rigid in the management of assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u122	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 111.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u123	Article 1 affirms the duality of assets. You have said, Madam rapporteur, that the committee's text is a synthesis of the various proposals. I would like to be sure that there will be no confusion between the different heritages; Otherwise, the whole philosophy of the text would be called into question. I therefore propose to introduce a presumption of belonging of the various assets to the professional heritage or to the personal heritage. This would improve the security of assets for both the debtor and the creditor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u124	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u125	As you can imagine, we have looked at the Senate's proposals: this is a discussion that we are likely to have in the Joint Joint Committee. However, it seems to me unnecessary to establish such a presumption: in the event of a dispute, it is the judge who will decide. The drafting of this text is the result of a long journey, and the consultations lasted more than a year. The formulations varied: professional heritage was defined in several ways, such as "useful" goods or rights, and then "exclusively useful" to the professional activity: we agreed on "useful". I believe that we have reached a good balance, which I propose to keep for today. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u126	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u127	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u128	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u129	We can't write the law by saying that in the end, it's the judges who will settle! It's confessing the weakness of your version. With all due respect, the judiciary will be able to assess files differently depending on whether we are in the west or east... This is known as case law. You do not secure the situation, which runs counter to the philosophy of your text. You refer us to a future Joint Joint Committee. I suggest that we move forward today. Let's not delay!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u130	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u131	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 129.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u132	This amendment goes back to paragraph 42, which provides for the reunification of assets in the event of death, which is problematic, particularly if the heirs wish to resume the activity. It is the whole spirit of the text that would be undermined. I therefore propose that this provision be amended and supplemented, by providing that, if the state of cessation of payments is proven on the date of death, the collective procedure only affects the professional heritage – the heritage duality is then maintained; in the other case only, the common law of succession shall apply, and the two estates shall be united. The amendment therefore mitigates the effects of the automatic assembly of the two assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u133	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u134	This is a subject that we have discussed in the special committee; You promised to work on it, you did it: the amendment seems to me quite good. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u135	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u136	Same opinion. We have started work in a special committee, and this proposal is very useful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u137	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u138	This amendment is indeed interesting, but I would like clarification. It applies when there is a cessation of payment on the date of death. However, following the cessation of payment, various follow-up measures are possible: liquidation, judicial reorganization... What happens in these different cases? The judicial correction continues, I imagine: if it is pronounced after the death, are the assets combined?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u139	I have before me seven amendments, Nos 7, 57, 130, 230, 58, 141 and 6, which can be discussed jointly. The first four of these amendments are identical. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u140	At present, an individual farmer with economic difficulties may request the opening of a collective procedure for the whole of his/her professional and personal assets. This procedure allows it to obtain a 15-year timeframe, and does not result in the sale of its real estate, which is essential for the continuation of the activity. The situation of farmers, whose private debt is large, may be adversely affected by this bill. Many economic difficulties in the personal assets of the owner in his own name come from the difficulties of the farm: difficulties with the bank on professional borrowings can lead to the termination of the term for personal borrowings; economic difficulties may force the operator to default on private loans; low farm income may lead farmers to contract consumer loans to meet the needs of their families; Some consumer loans, apparently private, are actually used to finance the farm. It is therefore proposed that, if a collective procedure is opened for the professional assets of a farmer in his own name and an over-indebtedness procedure should be opened for his personal assets, the over-indebtedness procedure should be in line with the provisions of the collective procedure. This adaptation is essential in order to prevent an over-indebtedness procedure for individuals endangering the agricultural holding, which would be rehabilitated in the context of a collective procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u141	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u142	This is a subject that we have already mentioned. We ask that farmers continue to benefit from the current derogation conditions set out in Article L. 626-12 of the Commercial Code. As Dino Cinieri has explained very well, the procedure for over-indebtedness of individuals is aligned with the provisions of the collective proceedings to which they are entitled.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u143	Amendment No 130 by Mr Guillaume Chiche is being defended. Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 230.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u144	This amendment by Dominique Potier also aims to maintain the existing derogation regime for farmers in their own name in relation to the over-indebtedness procedure. It was recalled that the subject of a farmer's personal heritage, i.e. of his land, is highly sensitive. We are talking about the men of the earth: it is these lands that make their pride, which are their raison d'être. And these are stories of succession, so stories of family and transmission. We must therefore remain very careful. It is certainly necessary to consolidate the text. We propose to maintain the current derogation regime. In addition, Mr Chassaigne pointed out: if we go through the judicial court, collective proceedings will last fifteen years, while the durations proposed by a commercial court will be much shorter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u145	Amendments Nos 58 by Mr André Chassaigne and 141 by Mr Guillaume Chiche are defended. I call Mr Cinieri to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u146	It is intended to ensure that the farm operator's home is no longer subject to conventional security for the benefit of professional creditors, and that this provision is of public policy, so that any contrary clause is deemed to be unwritten.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u147	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u148	The text does not change the derogations that exist for farmers. I refer you to Article 4. We have demanded from the Government that the explanatory memorandum for this article clearly explain this in order to reassure farmers. In the event of economic failure, they will continue to benefit from a 15-year plan. I therefore invite you to withdraw the amendments. Otherwise, I'll be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u149	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u150	Same opinion. The subject is dealt with in the spirit desired by the authors of the amendments, since we have included in Article 4 the retention of the derogations in force, in particular the famous 15-year period for farmers. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u151	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u152	I have not seen this clarification, but I trust you and withdraw my amendment No 57. On the other hand, you're not answering my question, and I don't understand why. Which court will be responsible for investigating the difficulties of farmers? Will we keep the court or will these cases go to the commercial court?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u153	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u154	I confirm to you, Urbi and Orbi, that this will be the judicial court.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u155	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u156	Since you tell us that the proceedings will continue for 15 years, and that they will be managed by the court, we withdraw our amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u157	Mr Dino Cinieri has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u158	In the same way as my colleagues, because of these assurances, I withdraw Amendment No 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u159	Is Amendment No 58 also withdrawn, Mr Chassaigne?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u160	Does Article 4 also provide answers on the alignment of over-indebtedness procedures with collective procedures? In that case, I will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u161	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u162	Yes, absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u163	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 166.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u164	This amendment by the Group The Republicans are an amendment of coordination with another which will be defended a little later, in Article 3, and which deletes the provisions to which the paragraph referred. It calls for the abolition of the inopportunity of the separation of property enjoyed by the USSRAF National Fund and the General Social Security Funds for the recovery of income tax, social contribution on income from activity and replacement income and contribution to the repayment of social debt (CRDS). Such an exception should not be. While there are doubts as to the effectiveness of the measure, in view of the legitimate objective of preserving property rights and freedom of contract, the Government and the majority, with article 3, greatly reduce the scope of this bill with regard to the relationship between entrepreneurs and social security agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u165	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u166	The text extends the principle of the separation of assets to public creditors, whether tax or social administrations. An exception to this principle is provided for in the case of income tax, including when it is recovered by social organizations. That is why we are talking about free social contributions and not social contributions. I do not see why we would remove this exception for social organizations alone, as it exists for the tax administration. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing this, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u167	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u168	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u169	Do you maintain the amendment, Mrs Blin?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u170	Yes, Madam Chair, because this provision is totally incomprehensible and unreadable to business leaders, just as it is inconsistent with the very purpose of your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u171	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 59, 81 and 95. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u172	It is intended to delete paragraphs 19 and 20 because, as I explained in the general discussion, we are quite opposed to the provisions allowing an individual contractor to waive the protection of his or her personal property in particular. We know very well how things will go ahead of the loans: the banks will have a very great ability to push the entrepreneur to give up the protection of his personal property. That's true life! It's a question of balance of power. It's about blackmail. So, I repeat, given the existing power relations, it is wrong to say that we are going to protect individual entrepreneurs. And if you tell me otherwise, in this republic where vulgarity sometimes appears, I'll tell you that at the false-ass ball, some people wouldn't be cold on their feet! The reality is the one I describe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u173	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u174	It is intended to delete paragraphs 19 and 20, which I also referred to in the general discussion. Indeed, we wish to remove the possibility of abandoning the separation of personal and professional assets upon request of creditors. By this amendment, we are seeking to ensure that the ambition of this text in the area of heritage protection does not become what was the promise of unemployment compensation in 2017, i.e. a pierced barrel. It should be remembered that, while Article 1 introduces a default protection of the personal assets of individual entrepreneurs vis-à-vis private creditors, it is very likely, as President Chassaigne pointed out, that the latter exercise their right of option by asking the independents to renounce the separation of their personal assets. Creditors will be all the more inclined to demand this waiver because the risk of default is high. In other words, the more useful it would be to protect the personal assets of the self-employed, the less effective it will be, as creditors demand more guarantees of personal assets. In view of the existing balance of power in the financing of the self-employed, the promised sealing between their personal and professional assets will be all the more porous as their project is risky. Finally, it should be recalled that, in its opinion on the bill, the Council of State expressed "its doubts [...] as to the effectiveness of the protection offered to the individual contractor as a debtor", because of this possibility of waiver. That is why we propose to abolish it, in favour of genuine social protection for individual entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u175	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u176	Similar to the previous ones, it was perfectly defended by my colleagues. It aims to eliminate the possibility of waiving the rule of full protection of the assets of the individual contractor. Indeed, such a provision refers us to the balance of power between the bank and the contractor and we know how things always end in such cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u177	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u178	I hope that not all bankers are as you described them because, although I understand your point of view, there are still some that lend and allow businesses to grow and farmers to invest. Having said that, there are several things that bother me in your amendments, starting with a risk of unconstitutionality, even if I do not particularly like to use this argument. Indeed, who can prevent anyone from doing what they want with their heritage? I am not sure that such a provision would be constitutional. Apart from this, we would not necessarily protect the individual entrepreneur by denying him the possibility of abandoning the separation of his personal assets. This is what you are asking, considering, so to speak, that the banks will put the knife under the throat of the entrepreneurs. But why would they lend them if, in the event of insufficient guarantees of professional assets, they could not obtain them from the personal assets to cover the proposed appropriation? You will therefore agree that we need a balance and we have found it through two provisions. Indeed, in the present state of law, an EIRL is obliged to give up in a comprehensive manner the separation of its personal assets for all its creditors. As a result of the bill, it will be possible to derogate from this separation only for a specific commitment and creditor. We are therefore protecting entrepreneurs better than the law currently provides. In addition, with identical amendments Nos 36, 49 and 214 which we will be considering shortly, the waiver will be regulated and the contractor will be able to negotiate a lower amount and duration of commitment than the credit it contracts. Secondly, we introduce a reflection period of seven days before the signing of the waiver, which is very different from a withdrawal period, in which a customer signs, so engages, and then has seven days to retract, at the risk of forgetting to do so. In this case, the contractor goes back with the proposal and has seven days to consult legal advice before deciding to sign or not to sign. That is why I believe that it would not be helpful for individual entrepreneurs to prevent them from securing their personal assets if they so wished. This does not mean that we are not committed to protecting it as much as possible, but entrepreneurs must continue to have access to credit to be able to grow and invest. I therefore call for the identical amendments to be withdrawn, failing which I will deliver an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u179	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u180	It is the same as that of the rapporteur. We have been down since the law of August 6, 2015, which sanitized the principal residence, and there is every indication that there has been no misuse of the waiver capacity. In addition, if these amendments were adopted, access to credit for individual entrepreneurs would cease to be clear. With the bill, a balance has been struck: a seven-day reflection period is not nothing. I would add that, in my view, banking institutions have an interest in playing the game and in soliciting, as little as possible – only when the credit quality is really poor – the waiver of the separation of assets. In any event, we will be vigilant to the proper application of this provision: I wanted to say so. Finally, as the rapporteur has done, we should point out the forthcoming amendments which will further strengthen the provisions. So are we, in a way, referred to a subject of philosophy: is he the best friend or enemy of good? In the case we are interested in, the best would be his enemy. I therefore request the withdrawal of these amendments; Otherwise I will give them an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u181	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u182	[[Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne, Minister Delegate, and Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, Rapporteur, smiled]] Thank you, Minister Delegate, for quoting my 18th-century ancestor, the Prince of Line, who said that sometimes the best is the enemy of good. I see you have good readings. As far as these amendments are concerned, between us, if we delete paragraphs 19 and 20, little will happen. As the rapporteur said, no one can prevent a private person, in this case an individual entrepreneur, from abandoning the differentiation of his or her assets. In addition, I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that paragraph 19 provides that this waiver can only be made after a "written request by a creditor". What happens if the request is made orally? Will the entrepreneur be unable to give up? If necessary, we would revert to the excellent argument put forward by the rapporteur that such a ban would be contrary to property rights. So this debate seems rather theoretical to me. Whether we vote in favour or against these amendments, I do not think that will change much.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u183	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u184	These amendments are called a very bad idea. Indeed, if you prevent entrepreneurs from securing their personal assets, it will force them to borrow in a personal capacity. Thus, in the event of default, creditors will be able to seize their personal assets as a matter of priority in relation to their professional assets. I repeat: this is a very bad idea! It should be remembered that this text introduces the separation of assets, which is a real legal revolution. This will enable entrepreneurs to choose and negotiate, which is not possible today. So let's not weaken the bill with bad amendments that will weaken individual entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u185	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u186	Madam rapporteur, unlike another ancestor of Mr de Courson, Lepeletier de Saint-Fargeau, who was a registrator,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u187	It's another branch.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u188	...I don't want to cut off bankers' heads – in any way. It is true that, locally, bankers are making efforts to try to accompany entrepreneurs. But the fact is that more and more local and even departmental contacts with local agencies go back to the headquarters of the banks, which then act as a cleaver, imposing very important requirements. Indeed, contrary to what you said, Minister Delegate, the law of 6 August 2015, which protects the principal residence, offers pretexts to creditors to put pressure on borrowers and to induce them to give up this protection. That is also the reality. That being the case, I fully understand your argument. It is for this reason that, during the general discussion, I made it clear that it would be appropriate to have a public investment bank – a state bank, in a way – to accompany the creation of individual companies, with zero-rate loans or, as BPIFrance does at the industrial level, by granting guarantees. To the extent that this type of support does not exist and that we are in a very liberal system, which I am the only one here, with a few others, not to defend, we are subject to the burden of financialization and banks. I therefore maintain my amendment, while being aware that the system is being done in this way. But don't make any illusions: your device will not produce the expected protection effects.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u189	I have before me two amendments, Nos 60 and 96, which can be discussed jointly. I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 60.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u190	It is an amendment of withdrawal, which is to safeguard at least the house of dwelling, so that it cannot be renounced.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u191	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u192	It has the same object as the one that was perfectly defended by Mr. Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u194	Mr President Chassaigne, the text does not change anything. The principal residence remains protected; If the person wishes to give it as a pledge, he must have an authentic act drawn up before a notary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u195	That's what I'm trying to stop!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u196	So you are proposing to go back to the previous amendment, which was intended to simply prevent people from pawning their principal residence. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u197	I have before me three identical amendments, Nos 36, 49 and 214. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u198	I let my colleagues Jean-Paul Mattei and Muriel Roques-Etienne present their amendments, which are identical to mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u199	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u200	In the same spirit as the previous amendments, it aims to regulate the waiver of the dissociation of assets both in its duration and in its amount. I would have liked to add additional precision to the base, but this was a problem of third-party effectiveness; In any event, it seems to me that this framework is an interesting step forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u201	On Amendments Nos 36 and 36, I have before me a request for a public ballot before the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u202	I associate myself with this amendment with my colleagues Nicolas Demoulin and Fiona Lazaar, who have invested a great deal in the issue of bank guarantee and its link with the personal assets of individual entrepreneurs. Paragraph 19 of Article 1e r provides for the protection of the personal assets of individual entrepreneurs in the event of tax and social debts. It is a strong act, long awaited by the entrepreneurial world. However, after a long consultation on the ground – with Tarn entrepreneurs, for my part – we found that one topic remains salient: that of personal bonding for the financing of the investment because of the possible waiver originally provided for in paragraph 17. After lengthy exchanges in special committees and numerous round-trips between the banking sector and the rapporteur, whom I thank, we have been able to regulate in a more balanced way the use of the waiver provided for in paragraph 19, in order to avoid it being perpetual or covering uncapped commitments. It is an additional freedom, accompanied by real security, which is thus given to entrepreneurs. They now have a personal heritage distinct from their professional heritage. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Of course, Minister Delegate, follow-up will be required. However, the banking sector, beyond finance itself, plays a role of general interest in financing economic activity. In this, he enjoys rights, like all of us, but also certain duties that we need to deepen. I'll come back.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u203	On Article 1, a request for a public vote is being submitted to the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche). The vote is announced in the National Assembly. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u204	I have a very favourable opinion on these three amendments. These clarifications go in the right direction, and we will follow the scheme carefully in the coming months to see how it naturally lives.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u205	[[Smile]] The five regulatory minutes are not quite over. If any of you wish kindly to furnish...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u206	Of course, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u207	No more than a minute, Monsieur de Courson! Are you sure you're up to the challenge? Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u208	I would like to ask a question to the rapporteur, to Mr Mattei and to the minister delegate on the scope of these amendments – which I am rather in favour of. Let us say that you have a personal wealth of 100: the amendments propose to limit the waiver of the protection of this heritage to 50, over a period of 10 years, to help you to contract your loan. But how does this measure apply when, in practice, your personal wealth is composed of several properties – your home and a secondary residence, to take a simple example?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u209	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u210	We did not want to clarify the basis for extending the right to pledge in order to allow those concerned to choose. If a contractor requests a loan of 100,000 euros, and negotiates with the banker a waiver of the protection of his personal assets for a maximum of 50,000 euros over a limited period, they will decide together on which assets are covered by the guarantee. It's a negotiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u211	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u212	We have identified this basic problem by drawing up the amendments. The question is: how can the affected good be made effective against third parties? You didn't have to be too complicated. We have therefore chosen to allow a general pledge on personal wealth, limited in its amount and duration, without entering into any additional complications. There are other cases, such as mortgages, but we did not want to go so far.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u213	[[Smile]] This is the debate that has been relaunched beyond our expectations. Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u214	Madam rapporteur, you are talking about a negotiation. In a negotiation, however, a person in a position of force often has the ability to impose what he or she wants. On the contrary, our duty should be to frame the system in the law to defend the weakest. Rather than negotiation, would it not be better to leave the choice of property to the claimant?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u215	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 36, 49 and 214.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u216	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 46 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u217	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 157.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u218	I think we forget that the main job of a banker is to lend; In the negotiations, it is above all he who chooses. This appeal amendment is intended to address some concerns about the real effectiveness of the scheme. It is feared that banks will systematically request the derogation permitted by this Article. We therefore want creditors to propose, in addition to this derogation, another guarantee mechanism that does not cover personal property. Several schemes already exist, such as the guarantee of creation of BPIFrance, France Active, regional, departmental or sectoral guarantee funds, and even mutual guarantee companies. We are aware that their means are sometimes limited: the amendment is only a call to extend the possibilities of guarantees beyond the commitment of personal property, if necessary by means of public guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u219	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u220	Unfavorable opinion. The text is intended not only to protect the independent entrepreneur, but also to simplify the process. Moreover, I have a little trouble with your initial thinking: in a negotiation, there is never a bad customer or a bad banker; When an entrepreneur wants to invest to grow, he goes to the banker to ask him for credit, on the terms he wants to negotiate. The bill is not intended to make this negotiation go better or worse. I will ask for a report on the number of waivers requested as a result of the adoption of the text, to check whether it does not lead to a phenomenon of so-called "less" because this situation can happen. But, to hear you, it would seem like it's happening all the time! Personally, I know people who are happy to have obtained a credit to invest; banks are also there to develop the economic sector. Currently, a range of guarantees is offered based on the purpose funded, as it is not the same to request a cash loan or a loan to invest by purchasing equipment. Moreover, we tend to forget that the guarantee is meant first of all to concern professional wealth: if I buy a machine, the banker will first offer a pledge on the machine. When are we drifting towards personal wealth? When the banker considers that the guarantee relating to the professional good is not sufficient, he will then require an additional guarantee on the personal property. This is where we intervene to protect the contractor in demand for credit. By separating professional property from personal property, we prevent the banker from claiming a pledge on personal property, unless the contractor decides to waive the separation of the two assets. We give him a second protection by granting him a seven-day reflection period, and additional protection by limiting the amount and duration of the guarantee thanks to the amendments by our colleagues Mattei and Roques-Etienne. One can be convinced, or not, of the relevance of this proposal; As for us, we have worked extensively on this text, and we are now convinced of it. I repeat, there will be a request for a report at the end of the text, because we must be vigilant. As the minister delegate has said, it is out of the question of making a counterproductive text when we all want the same thing. As things stand, request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u221	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u222	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u223	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u224	As my colleague has said, you live a little in the world of the Bisounours, the rapporteur: at present it is the bankers who are dominant. It seems a bit naive to me to think that they will be afraid of your final report. Your proposal is too derogatory and, in many cases, the banker will have the flexibility to extend the guarantee to personal assets. I believe that we all have the same intention, which is to rebalance the power relations in favour of independent entrepreneurs. The amendment proposes a way of doing this that will benefit everyone. Surety companies exist: let's make sure that before asking the contractor for a guarantee on his personal assets, the banker is obliged to offer him that of a mutual bond company. It's still not asking too much! This is in line with what you are proposing: a better balance for everyone to regain their place and for economic activity to be preserved and developed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u225	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u226	To prove to you that I do not live in the Bisounour world, I would point out that, in order to accept the guarantee of a mutual bond company, the bank must first have established a partnership with it. Not all banks can accept mutual bond company guarantees!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u227	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor to support Amendment No. 50.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u228	Section 4 of the article greatly promotes the transfer of the individual business into a corporation. This is something we probably have not sufficiently developed, but it is essential for the development of the company in our country. It is an amendment of clarification. The text referred to the totality of the assets: however, the possibility must be left to divest all or part of them with the current legal rules on the transfer of commercial and other funds. The amendment therefore seeks to simplify the transfer of assets in the event of the universal transfer of assets to a legal person and the application of the current rules in the case of the transfer of part of the professional assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u229	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u230	My colleague, you also raised this issue in committee. You have worked and I find the amendment correct: it corresponds to expectations. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u231	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u232	Clarification is welcome. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u233	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 62.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u234	Fortunately, I will not read the entire summary, which is very complex; That would be way too long. I will try to be simple: will the members of a company whose object is exclusively agricultural be able to benefit from the agricultural derogation provisions – we must discuss this in Article 4 – when they are subject to an over-indebtedness procedure for individuals? Article 8 of the bill opens up the possibility, in the case of over-indebtedness procedures for individuals, of dealing with professional debts. This opening provides a response to the situation of the operating partners of a civil farm society (SCEA), who could no longer access collective proceedings following the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation of 3 October 2018. The Commission considers that they do not operate directly, but that it is the EACS that carries out the agricultural activity. The consequences would be as follows: we would open the over-indebtedness procedures of the business partners with a seven-year schedule, thus treating them less favourably than the professional debts of the own-name operators, who have a 15-year schedule. We therefore have a breach of equality in the treatment of professional debts incurred by the operating partner on the one hand and by the farmer in his own name on the other. The aim of the amendment is to put the partner and the main operator on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u235	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u236	I'm going to disappoint you, President Chassaigne, because the opinion is unfavorable. The text does not change the current situation for associate operators. Even if they have professional debts, such as contributions to the Agricultural Social Mutuality (ASM), young farmers' endowments (ADI) or others, they remain in their status as partners and can therefore only have an over-indebtedness procedure and not a collective procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u237	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u238	Unfavorable opinion. Nevertheless, even if we are under the rule of Book VI, the time limit remains fifteen years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u239	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u240	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u241	Adopting Mr. Chassaigne's amendment would be dangerous for the other partners, because it could put the CSEA in trouble. Caution is to prohibit interference. If an operator wants to sell his shares to repay his personal debts, it is his business; but it must not put the CSEA and the other partners in difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u242	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u243	I would like to return to the previous question, waiver. Could credit mediators be put in the loop in the event of an abuse or pressure by the bank on the separation of assets?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u244	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u245	I am aware of what Mr de Courson is saying. A grouping with the company is possible – Monsieur de Courson, you will read in detail the summary statement: there is then a risk of endangering it. What I am asking is for debt to be treated separately, with the same benefits in terms of derogation as those that could be granted to the manager.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u246	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u247	I am replying to my colleague Bricout: the text does not change the practice of mediation. It broadens the scope and therefore, there could be mediation, even for waiver.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u248	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u249	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 52 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 43 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u250	There are still abstentions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u251	Amendment No 131 by Mr Jean-Philippe Nilor is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u252	I did not understand the amendment very well, because there is already a derogatory status for entrepreneurs in the ultramarine territories. Request for withdrawal or unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u253	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u254	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u255	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u256	It is a pity that the minister delegate does not answer: is this amendment satisfied or not? The rapporteur seems to say that he is; If that is the case, I will withdraw it, but if the minister delegate does not give me that guarantee, I cannot allow myself to withdraw it, since I am only Mr Nilor's voice holder. Can the minister delegate give me that clarification?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u257	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u258	The aim of the amendment is to create a derogatory status as a polyentrepreneur for individual entrepreneurs in the ultramarine territories. I don't think he's satisfied as it is, so I don't want to give you any false hopes, which is why I'm calling for him to be rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u259	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u260	In these circumstances, I maintain the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u261	Mr Christophe Naegelen, in support of Amendment No. 155, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u262	We have already defended this amendment in other texts; Our colleague Michel Zumkeller wanted to take him back in this one. It has an important symbolic significance since its objective is to abolish the privileges of public creditors. Why? We talk about the self-employed: sometimes some of their clients liquidate their business and close, and they only arrive in the third, fourth, fifth or sixth position in the order of creditors, with public creditors such as the State in front of them. It is important that it takes its responsibilities: if we want to safeguard companies, to show that it is a priority, we put them before public creditors! This would also help to avoid domino bankruptcies. This can sometimes be seen: as a result of unpaid claims because the State passes first, companies are obliged to take legal action or file the balance sheet. It would really be a strong signal on the part of the Government to understand this problem and to agree to go after the suppliers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u263	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u264	It is indeed an amendment that often comes back. In the PLF for 2022, it was rejected by the rapporteur-general. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u265	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u266	Unfavorable opinion, too. As regards the publicity of the privilege of the Treasury, the majority did not remain immobile since, in the CAPTE law, the threshold which triggers it was increased from 15,000 to 200,000 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u267	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u268	It's an old amendment...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u269	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u270	...which goes back twenty-five or thirty years! I've only been here for twenty-nine years and we've defended him several times. A more subtle version is to give the president of the commercial court the opportunity to change the order of the debts. All the ministers before you, Minister Delegate, fought this amendment with great violence, arguing that it would lose revenue. It's a bad analysis of the economic situation! Sometimes it can win, on the contrary. As for me, I was rather in favour of a system that gave the commercial court the opportunity to change the order of the creditors. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the average rate of recovery of unprivileged debts is? It is 5%, that is, practically nothing. Why? Because upstream mainly involves social contributions and sometimes the state, for different taxes. I would like to know, Mr. Deputy Minister, whether you would be open to the possibility of changing the order of debts by decision of the commercial court, in order to try to save saving companies; If they are not, the order must not be changed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u271	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u272	I will make two remarks, following the response of the Minister Delegate and the intervention of our colleague Courson. Sometimes you have to agree to lose a little to gain a lot later. As Charles de Courson said very well, it would sometimes bring much more to the state to withdraw, because the company that would be saved would continue to pay taxes and other contributions. Deputy Minister, at no time have I accused you of being motionless on this point. You said yourself that you were not slow. The snail is slow and does not progress very fast; I ask you to look more like the hare, to go much faster and to accept, for the companies that are waiting for a strong sign from you, to question the public debts by putting them after those of the suppliers. Honestly, that would not be huge: the provision, which would not lose money to the state, would send a strong signal to the business world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u273	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u274	I make a point, since Charles de Courson encourages me: sometimes the privilege of the Treasury is not so great! There are indeed super-privileged creditors: wages are paid naturally before calling creditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u275	That makes sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u276	On the other hand, in reorganization, the State itself may have to make efforts, like other creditors, by abandoning claims. The state knows how to discern things and do everything possible to save businesses where possible. I wanted to clarify this point, in addition to the developments that the majority adopted under the PACTE law at the very beginning of the quinquennium.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u277	Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne has the floor to support Amendment No. 234.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u278	As I mentioned in my previous speech, it is desirable that we go further in our discussions with the banking sector on the subject of entrepreneurs' personal bonds when they wish to finance their investments to start or expand their business. Many of us have consulted the economic world in our ridings. We are faced with men and women involved in their businesses, who promote a project, jobs and growth: we must not forget it. Despite all the major advances contained in this text, they retain the anguish – that is their term – of personal bonding with credit institutions. Of course, it is not a question of considering that banks should not protect themselves against cessation of payment, but nevertheless fulfil a mission of general interest, which involves not only rights, but also duties. I believe in the strength of consensus: that is why my amendment seeks to establish a charter of good bonding practices, which would be adopted by the banking sector, the state and representatives of the business world. Other solutions exist, such as bond companies, which could, for example, guarantee all of the loans, not part of them. In times of crisis, we have managed to mobilize together to develop the EMP: together, we must continue this work in favour of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u279	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u280	You defended a similar amendment during the special committee discussion. I have replied that we must indeed look after banking practices – as I have already said in the past. To do so, we could have them adopt a charter, such as when IRLs were created, or adopt measures to better protect the contractor as part of the waiver. Jean-Paul Mattei and I, in particular, have chosen to better frame the waiver: so it would be counterproductive to adopt a charter in addition, even if I understand your objective. I therefore propose that you withdraw the amendment, otherwise I will deliver an unfavorable opinion. The same will apply to Amendment No 207 by Mr Zumkeller, which we shall be considering in a moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u281	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u282	We have indeed already had this debate during the examination of the text in a special committee. By adopting Amendment No 50, which is intended to regulate waiver, you have set up a guard. I repeat – it is not a style effect – that we will carefully follow the application of the device. We will review the figures for credit issues and the rate of waivers. I suggest that you join us in this work, so that we can establish a milestone at the end of the year. While it is important to pass laws, it is just as important to evaluate them – it is part of your monitoring mission. Like the rapporteur, I therefore propose that you stay there for the moment and withdraw your amendment; If not, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u283	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u284	I am surprised that he was not placed in a joint discussion with that of Mrs Roques-Etienne – these are the mysteries of the organisation of our assembly – because he aims to establish a guide to good practice. I do not question the work you have done, but your device concerns only part of the problem. When you sign up for a credit, the banker welcomes you with a smile, but when problems arise, no one answers you, you only have numbers and the interlocutors are very far away. By following a good practice guide, the banker would commit to accompanying the borrower and ensuring the local presence of an interlocutor. I am told that such a guide would be difficult to set up, but it would be in line with the rebalancing that we call for, so that the welcome is the same when we are faced with a difficulty and when we come to take a loan.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u285	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor to support Amendment No. 158.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u286	It concerns voluntary insurance against the risk of accidents at work and occupational diseases (ATMP). The health crisis has revealed the great vulnerability of health professionals: some have contracted the disease as part of their professional activity, sometimes developing a long covid. Dozens of cases are being recognized. If these liberal professionals had not voluntarily contributed to the health insurance, they would not benefit from the effects of the recognition of occupational disease. By extension, I ask that the one-stop shop, created in 2019 with the PACTE law, which intervenes when businesses are set up, with a view to simplification, facilitate, on an experimental basis, the steps taken by business creators to purchase voluntary insurance. To do so, it would centralize the documents and transmit them to the various agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u287	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u288	I'm very sensitive to your argument. The situation we know shows that we must do everything to ensure that the information is delivered at the right time. On the other hand, your proposal is more of a regulatory rather than a legislative one. I therefore give an opinion of wisdom and leave the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u289	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u290	Your amendment is the first on the issue of information; it concerns voluntary insurance against the risks of accidents at work and occupational diseases; other aspects of the text will follow. Information is important and we need to raise awareness of all the actors involved in delivering it – CCI, Chamber of Crafts and Crafts (CMA), in particular, and some of our services – in order to improve it, especially in this area. However, the one-stop shop, established by Article 1 of the PACTE Act – I repeat, because it is naturally a source of pride for the majority – comes first and foremost within the framework of procedures that come under the jurisdiction of the State. But the assurances you refer to are private. The Single Window must first prove its worth within the framework established by the PACTE law: we must ensure that it succeeds and it will always be time to expand its powers. Your message has been heard; We share your objective of improving information, but we propose to examine how to achieve it through an infra-legislative way, by mobilizing networks in direct contact with the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u291	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 224.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u292	It also concerns agricultural land and aims to distinguish between assets that are part of professional and personal property.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u293	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u294	Unfavorable opinion. We have worked extensively on issues relating to the agricultural sector, to be sure that we do not make mistakes. Your question is legitimate, and I also raised it. As no amendments were discussed in committee for this sector, I asked the Government to verify that the text would not lead to a decline in the situation of farmers. Again this morning, I spoke on the phone with a representative of the National Federation of Agricultural Trade Unions (FNSEA), to whom I explained that we would not support the amendments that President Chassaigne had proposed. I, like the Government, have undertaken to hold a conference call before the end of the week with members of all the relevant firms and stakeholders in the sector, to verify everything and, in order to appease all minds, to assure them that none of the measures that we will adopt will reduce the level of protection. Your amendment was of interest to me and I have examined it well. We first thought that this was a good idea and we had it analyzed. It may prove counterproductive, as it is far less advantageous than the existing law. Indeed, if I possess an elusive asset, I have an armored protection, as long as I do not resort to any waiver, since the two assets are well separated. On the other hand, if I give up the benefit of dissociation for an unseizable declared property, creditors could directly exercise their right to pledge on agricultural or other property, without going through the collective procedure. Please be assured that we have been well-coordinated with representatives of the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u295	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u296	Should this article not be amended in coordination with Amendment No 50 by Mr Mattei, adopted in Article 1? In fact, there is a question here of the beneficiary of the universal transfer of professional heritage: however, a partial transfer can now be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u297	We didn't get an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u298	Amendment No 63 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u299	Its adoption would have the opposite effect to the one you are looking for. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u300	Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u301	Without prejudging the fate of the amendments, which are aimed in particular at assigning a role to the judge to observe fraudulent manoeuvres or breaches by the contractor preventing creditors from recovering taxes, contributions or social contributions due, this article, in the version adopted in committee, seems to me to be balanced and close to the reality of the field. With Article 1, we have separated professional and personal assets, thus the taxable and taxation arrangements. Here, we specify how taxes, social contributions and contributions can be collected, which may relate to one or the other of the assets, if and only if the tax administration or social security agencies find fraud or serious and repeated non-compliance with the tax obligations and requirements of social security legislation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] To the extent that the overwhelming majority of entrepreneurs in our country are honest and strictly observe their duties and obligations, this article draws the tax consequences of the separation of personal and professional assets within the scope of recovery procedures. This clarification was necessary and expected; It once again confirms our desire to better protect the business leader from the hazards of entrepreneurial life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u302	Amendment No 186 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u303	Amendments Nos 64 by Mr André Chassaigne, 167 by Mrs Anne-Laure Blin and 65 by Mr André Chassaigne, which may be subject to a joint debate, are defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u304	The rapporteur's amendment No 20 is drafting and coordinating.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u305	Amendment No 67 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u306	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 168.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u307	It is important: it deals with a very long question raised in committee. It aims to limit the general right to pledge – in derogation from the principle of separation of property, which is usefully advocated by the draft law – enjoyed by the tax administration, by stating that the collection of the property tax relating to immovable property useful for the professional activity, to which an individual contractor would be liable, cannot be subject. Such an exception does not have to be. While there are doubts about the effectiveness of the measure, in view of the legitimate objective of the bill, the Government – by not retaining our proposals made in committee – emptys the text of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u309	I grant you, we have had a lot of exchanges on the issue of property tax in committee. I would like to assure you of my diligence in obtaining all possible answers, in order to better answer you. I'll read them to you, so everyone can understand. The property tax results from ownership of the property, regardless of its use for professional use. It is thus distinguished from the CFE, which results from the use of property in the context of professional activity. This is indeed a professional debt, which is not the case with the property tax, because of its very definition. The creation of an individual activity should lead to the taking into account, in professional accounting, of the good useful for that activity, without, however, implying a transfer of ownership, in so far as the individual enterprise does not have a legal personality separate from the natural person of the entrepreneur. In fact, the property tax relating to professional property does not constitute an occupational debt, since it is not at the time of the professional exercise. This is why the text provides for the possibility of recovery on both types of assets – professional and personal. Indeed, according to the rule of law, the person in an individual enterprise has the uniqueness of the assets – the argument is exactly the same as for the other amendments that you have defended – so that it is possible to use either of them, including to recover a debt corresponding to the property tax. This text maintains the existing one: the possibility of going to the professional, while leaving room for choice of staff, because, by definition, personal wealth is linked to the person. The subject is complex, I hope I've been clear. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u311	The rapporteur has made this clear and I can only back up her remarks. On the one hand, there is no regression from the current law for individual entrepreneurs. However, it is true that the property tax results from the ownership of the property, decorated by the use made by its owner, thus regardless of the use – a concept that is also at the heart of our work: in this, it is distinguished from other taxes, such as the CFE, which results from the use of property in the context of professional activity. In drafting the text, we have made every effort to separate personal and professional heritage from what can be recovered. Only two types of taxation – everything related to income tax and social tax on the one hand, and property tax on the other – can be sought on both. Our work is followed by hundreds of thousands of independents, aware of the progress made in the bill: I want to assure them, as a picture I regrettably cannot show them, that we have taken care to limit the cases in which research is carried out on both personal and professional heritage. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u312	I have before me four amendments, Nos 16, 110, 232 and 233, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 110, 232 and 233 are identical. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u313	Let's show some intellectual coherence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u314	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u315	Let's start by referring to the IR: in this respect, what you are proposing is quite logical, since an individual entrepreneur completes a single return that includes the income from his or her professional activity and other income available to him or her. If the choice has been made for the IS, the professional part is outside the scope of the IR. Another problem is property tax (IFI), which I would like to point out is that professional property is exempt. This is the case with the real estate used for the operation – for example, a hangar where the plant's equipment is located, which is consistent. Therefore, the problem does not arise, since, whether professional or personal, this part is exempt. I come to the property tax: what you say is not logical at all. The criterion I propose in my amendment is very simple:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u316	Come on!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u317	... either the assignment is made, according to the utility criterion, to the professional activity and the tax must be recovered on the professional activity – it would be inappropriate to do so with the income and personal property – or it is to personal property and the recovery is made on the personal income. The criterion is therefore that of assignment, in application of the criterion of utility: it is very simple! I wouldn't understand that you were challenging this, because if the individual entrepreneur remains an individual entrepreneur, but rents this real estate...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u318	But that's not how it happens!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u319	... because he created a company, there is a full impact of the property tax on the tenant, as is the case for all leases in this area. So you need a neutral approach, otherwise you will favour inadequate mountings, which may enrich some intermediaries. If the good is professional, it is up to the professional sector, and if the assignment relates to personal income, it is they who have to pay: it is entirely logical and coherent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u320	It doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u321	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 110.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u322	I will add to the comments made by Charles de Courson, who proposes to set criteria for correcting the original version of Article 3. If, of course, I associate myself with the intellectual logic of this demonstration, I ask you to go beyond the criteria and establish a principle. I disagree with the current wording, which is in favour of the tax administration. As I pointed out in the general discussion, it is a matter of making an arbitration between the trader, the craftsman, the self-employed and the public authorities, in order to free economic activity. This amendment is therefore simply intended to retain the principle of the separation of assets, in accordance with the spirit of the text, because, suddenly, for reasons of fiscal expediency, you have decided to provide for a derogation. This may possibly relate to income tax and social levies, but the allocation of a building must either be economic and professional – it is a choice – or family or private: the property tax can therefore be recovered according to the use of that building. I therefore do not agree with the rapporteur in reply to the amendment tabled by my colleague Anne-Laure Blin: the current wording of Article 3 is a very bad signal to the self-employed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u323	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u324	I call Mr Philippe Huppé to support Amendment No. 232.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u325	You have convinced me, Madam rapporteur and Minister Delegate. Personal law must indeed be distinguished from real law. I therefore withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u326	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor to support Amendment No. 233.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u327	I share the analysis of my colleagues Charles de Courson and Stéphane Viry. It is difficult to understand the position advocated by the rapporteur and by the delegate minister, whereas the logic of the text is that of the separation of assets, which seems quite simple: we ask that the same logic be retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u328	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u329	I'm sorry you didn't understand my explanations, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u330	It's not easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u331	...because I try to be synthetic and clear. This text establishes the separation of assets and is no less so than the existing law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u332	It's a divergence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u333	Your logic – I understand it – is to consider that, to the extent that it is a professional good and that there is a separation of assets, the tax administration should make the choice of professional heritage: no. I recall that at present the administration has access to both assets to recover the property tax debt of a person who has an individual business: the text is therefore no less so-called, but simply does not go to the end of the logic – I hear it – with regard to the distinction between the two assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u334	What a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u335	What confession? We refer to the problem of tax administration; There are no problems with the IR and social levies: your disagreement is only about the property tax. So I'm going to reread the definition of property tax, maybe you'll understand it a little better. It does not refer to the CFE but results from the ownership of a property regardless of the use of that property for professional use: we therefore have no obligation. I would like to answer all your questions and come to the lessor mentioned by Charles de Courson. You have been sitting for a very long time, Mr. de Courson: so I still have a apprehension when you speak, because you are a well of science.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u336	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u337	Of course, if the person is not the owner, the lessor will charge the property tax and the lessor will be able to deduct it as a tax charge. The proposed scheme should not be confused with tax treatment. Similarly, it is not because corporate tax is chosen that the property is systematically assigned to the accounting balance sheet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u338	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u339	That is what the amendment proposes. I remain in my position: the essential thing is that our system is no less favourable than the existing law. Today, the principle of the uniqueness of the patrimony applies to the individual entrepreneur: thus, the right to pledge can extend to all its patrimony. We retain the principle that the separation of the professional and personal assets of the individual contractor will not be enforceable against the tax administration for the collection of the property tax. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u340	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u341	To abound in the rapporteur's sense, I would like to clarify where we come from and where we are going. The law in force provides that the State could recover the sums due from the assets not affected by VAT, the CFE, the CVAE – contribution on the value added of enterprises – and the IS if the right of option had been exercised. Through the separation of personal and professional assets, the State renounces the recovery of these taxes on personal assets. Residually, the dissociation of assets will not be enforceable for the recovery of the IR and the property tax for all the reasons mentioned by the rapporteur – I will not go back to that. It is important to take account of the evolution of the law: this text, in particular Articles 1 and 3, significantly improves – it is not a figure of style – the situation of individual entrepreneurs. Let's be proud, we're making progress. Opinions against these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u342	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u343	Madam rapporteur, you do pointy legalism without taking into account economic reality. I did not say that debts should be systematically recovered from the whole of the assets, but that the property tax on a building assigned to the business should be recovered from the professional assets, while the property tax on a building included in the personal assets should be recovered from the latter. This means that, in the case of built land, this text does not change the law in force. Answer me: do you propose to us the status quo in terms of built land? The answer is yes. There is no change, we agree. This means that you do not want to draw any consequences from a true separation between personal and professional heritage, an idea that many of us support. It's not consistent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u344	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u345	[[Mr Charles de Courson and Ms Anne-Laure Blin protest]] These amendments may appeal, but unfortunately the property tax is due by the owner. If there is no transfer of ownership, the property tax cannot be recovered from the professional property. But no, this device doesn't turn. I understand that we can think about the status of the useful heritage,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u346	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u347	... to work, which would have other consequences. You mentioned the IFI: you should also mention depreciation and the professional building that no longer forms part of the private patrimony and that involves paying professional and not private capital gains. All of these issues require much more in-depth reflection. You explain the case of the landlord who rents and transfers the charge of the property tax to the tenant: this transfer is purely conventional. The person liable for the property tax remains the owner of the walls. The effect of the property tax on the tenant is also analysed as a rent supplement. The system cannot work that way. I am seduced by these arguments, but in the present state of our law we cannot change this rule in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u348	We're here to change them, the rules! They didn't fall from the sky.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u349	What are we here for?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u350	I call Mr Viry to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u351	It is part of the logical continuation of the discussion we have just had. The minister delegate boasted of a table prepared by the administration and the rapporteur gave us a lesson on the property tax. But we are here to change the situation, to suppose, dear colleague Mattei, that the law is not well written. I blame your text for stopping in the middle of the ford against the political messages addressed to those who want to practise an independent profession in our country. It's not about making legalism. You prefer the tax administration, the fort, over men and women who take risks. With regard to the protection of the heritage, article 12 goes in the right direction. Nevertheless, you do not go to the end of the reasoning on the issue of taxation. I thought that — this is the meaning of my amendment, which has a rather long summary, I will not read it in detail — in article 3, paragraph 9, an exorbitant possibility for the tax administration to reconsider the general principle of the right, acquired in recent years, of the non-seizability of personal assets, in particular of the individual house of the entrepreneur. For reasons of simplification, guarantee and protection, I would ask you to delete paragraph 9 of Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u352	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u353	You have a doubt, I hear it, and I'm sure the minister delegate will lift it: I don't have the same reading as you. We must ensure that the principle of the non-seizability of personal real property, which is fully applicable to the principal residence, is maintained. When you say that the text broadens the scope of this exception by deleting the reference to Article 1729 of the General Tax Code, I do not perceive it in the same way. Indeed, article L. 526-1 of the Commercial Code refers to "serious and repeated non-observations", which are not mentioned in article 1729, which in fact relates to fraudulent manoeuvres. We do not change anything, we do retain this fundamental principle. I will let the minister delegate give his answer; You are right to raise this point, so that we are sure that the provision does not raise a problem because the aim is not to go back on that principle.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u354	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u355	I fully agree with the rapporteur's argument. Article 1729 of the General Tax Code sets out the rate of increase of tax evaded in the event of fraudulent manoeuvres. We therefore retain the principle of the elusiveness of the principal residence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u356	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u357	Mr. Viry, when you say that we are not doing anything from a fiscal point of view, I find you somewhat unfair. First, as the rapporteur and the minister delegate have repeated, the administration can pick up an individual contractor who uses – or does not use – personal property for his business in order to recover the property tax. We will maintain this status quo by taking into account the separation of personal and professional assets, and Article 1e r obliges us to do so. As Mr Mattei explained very well, it is the natural person who owns it; And we also want everyone to remain in control of their properties. Thus, this principle is maintained. [[Mr. Sylvain Maillard applauds]] I would like to remind you of the plan for the self-employed that we passed in the 2022 Finance Bill to support individual entrepreneurs. We allowed them to opt for corporate tax, which was not possible before; we introduced a tax deduction on the depreciation of the funds acquired in 2022 and 2023; We have also provided for an exemption from capital gains realized in the course of divestitures. All these tax measures were expected, requested and voted on. You are unfair when you say that we have not gone to the end on this point for individual companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u358	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to support Amendment No. 170.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u359	In the right line of my colleague's remarks, with regard to the principle of protection, you stop in the middle of the ford. That is what I said to you on the occasion of the first amendment that we tabled. The latter, which echoes the one we have previously defended, abolishes the general right of pledge, derogating from the principle of separation of property, which is enjoyed by the USSRAF Caisse Nationale and the General Social Security Funds, for the recovery of income tax, social contribution on income from activity and on income from replacement and from the CRDS. We expect you to clarify the device in order to further protect individual entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u360	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u361	I made it clear earlier, dear colleague. These are social levies, and not social contributions, we agree – I say that because sometimes there can be confusion. However, as in the case of income tax, the separation of professional and personal assets is not enforceable for their recovery. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u362	Mrs Sereine Mauborgne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u363	The bill is part of the plan for self-employed workers announced by the President of the Republic on 16 September 2021. It creates a unique status for individual entrepreneurs, protecting their personal assets, and facilitates the transformation of an individual enterprise into a society; These measures were expected. Article 4 provides for provisions relating to the over-indebtedness of the individual contractor. It puts an end to the principle that an over-indebtedness procedure for individuals cannot be initiated in respect of an individual entrepreneur on the ground that the individual entrepreneur falls within the collective procedures provided for in the Commercial Code. It adapts the over-indebtedness procedure to the case of the individual contractor, in the same manner as is currently used for the EIRL. It is expressly provided that only personal assets would be apprehended in the proceedings. Finally, and as an exception, the initiation or continuation of an over-indebtedness procedure in respect of an individual entrepreneur would be excluded in the event that the individual entrepreneur was subject to a collective procedure extended to his personal assets. This consensus provision was adopted without amendment. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the importance of drawing on the consequences of the creation of the new statute on collective procedures and over-indebtedness. It is only during insolvency proceedings that we will be able to assess the real effectiveness of the new individual contractor status created in clause 1 of the bill. Our wish is clear: to protect the personal property of individual entrepreneurs. This provision protects them satisfactorily from their creditors and other parties involved in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u364	I have before me two identical amendments, No 29, second rectification, and 178, second rectification, which are the subject of a sub-amendment No 239. The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No 29, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u365	Previously, in discussions on the agricultural sector, we referred to this article. This amendment derives the consequences of the status of independent contractor, as created by section 1 of the bill, in the event of a failure of the business or farm, or also in the event of difficulties affecting the non-professional property. It relies on the creation of a separate patrimony for professional activity, in order to facilitate the rebound. It aims to coordinate many provisions relating to the independent contractor and the EIRL. It provides, in accordance with the principle of separation of assets, that the treatment of professional economic failure and personal failure shall be provided by a judicial unit of principle. It allows the entrepreneur to benefit from the favourable rules of Book VI of the Commercial Code for both his professional and personal assets while maintaining, where appropriate, the competence of the over-indebtedness commission when only personal assets are compromised. I would like to draw your attention to the last paragraph of the summary statement, which states that the farmer does not lose the benefit of the procedure for the treatment of all his liabilities. The last phase mentions, in particular, the protection of his personal residence and this impassability also concerns the transfer of an agricultural property set. These are the elements that I wanted to highlight in the discussion of these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u366	Amendment No 178, second rectification, by Mrs Agnès Firmin Le Bodo is being defended. The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u367	This is a coordination sub-amendment providing for an exception to the jurisdiction of the protection litigation judge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u368	So you are giving an opinion in favour of the Government's amendment, subject to the adoption of your sub-amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u369	Indeed, it is a favourable opinion, subject to the adoption of my sub-amendment. I would like to take this opportunity to thank once again – I have already done so in the general discussion – the Government, because, as I recall, originally Article 4 did not exist and the text provided for an authorisation to legislate by order We now have a comprehensive, concrete and evolving article: it will benefit not only farmers but also other categories of self-employed people. I am therefore, of course, expressing a favourable opinion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u370	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u371	Favourable to the sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u372	Amendment No 61 by Mr André Chassaigne is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u373	The Minister-in-Office has the floor to support Amendment No. 30 to re-establish Rule 6, the deletion of which by the Senate has been retained by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u374	It is intended to restore Article 6 and hence the power to legislate by order that was proposed in the original text, with regard to several provisions relating to liberal professionals. This would involve working with them to clarify and modernise their way of doing business, particularly in open society, in the context of upstream co-construction. It was said that we would not take any initiative that was not the subject of a full consensus among them. Naturally, I hope that such an empowerment does not prevent us from working with national representation at any time; It goes without saying and it is in a way the counterpart that this type of procedure involves. I would add that a number of regulated liberal professions have raised concerns with regard to the rules on the opening up of capital, so we have excluded them from empowerment and things are very clear on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u375	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u376	In order to implement the long-standing consultations with the regulated professions in order to simplify and, above all, to make the rules to which they are subject more legible – they demand it themselves – we hoped to arrive at a solution by presenting an article that is not limited to an authorization to legislate by order but is indeed a complete article, as we have done with regard to Article 4. Turns out it's not possible. It's no big deal: so much so, and perhaps so much better! Indeed, we cannot develop such an article without having conducted all the necessary consultations and without having reached the consensus that must be reached with each of the regulated professions. The work must therefore continue. The dangers have been removed and we thank you, Minister Delegate, because it was an essential element: everyone had to be reassured. I hope that you will involve parliamentarians in the work that we will continue to do to improve the readability of the regulated professions. Favourable opinion, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u377	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u378	[[Smile on the benches of the commission]] I, for my part, have a completely unfavourable position to this article. Why? Because it's far too big! Its scope is so broad that if we adopt it, the Government – the Government or the Government that will succeed it – could do everything! Mr Delegate, you tell us, for example, that you will not allow the opening of the capital of the companies concerned – this is one of the concerns expressed by several professions. However, according to your amendment, the Government will have the power to make by order any provisions that "facilitate the development and financing of structures for the exercise of liberal professions subject to legislative or regulatory status or whose title is protected, with the exception of the rules relating to the holding of capital". "Excluded", of course,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u379	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u380	...but the authorization would still make it possible to intervene in this matter, for example through subsidiaries! You can see it: it is far too broad. Moreover, what would be the use of this authorization? Your government has only three months to live.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u381	Don't be unpleasant!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u382	Then we'll see! No one knows what will happen. If one takes into account the time of the concertation, which you yourself say is indispensable, it is clear that you will not be able, in such a short period of time, to make orders. You say it yourself: the situations are very different from one liberal profession to another. Why, then, should we go back to the deletion of Article 6, which was voted on? And why deprive Parliament of a debate on a large text which would relate to the topics mentioned here, which fall within its competence? They are still delicate and complicated business. I insist: what is the point of having such an amendment voted, when your government has only three months to live? We have absolutely no time. It is therefore an authorization for the future government, when we do not know who will compose it or what it will want to do! Frankly, ladies and gentlemen, let us not vote for this governmental amendment and let us remain in the text before us, in which this article was no longer included. Let us be a little reasonable and take note of the fact that we do not have time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u383	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u384	For my part, I associate myself with the words of Charles de Courson. As you said, the rapporteur and the minister delegate: you are not prepared to make provisions for the professions subject to legislative or regulatory status: of which act. If your bill were ready for our consideration, we could work on it; as obviously it is not ripe, so you cannot force your hand, or even break the arm of the National Assembly! The parliamentarians in committee voted. However, in the summary statement of his amendment, the delegate said everything in go that, despite that decision, the Government did not agree and would therefore impose its right to legislate outside Parliament. That's no way to do it! You can't do this, not on such a large perimeter or on such a large number of professions! Added to this is the temporality evoked by Charles de Courson. I do not understand why you dare to ask for permission to proceed by order, when you are obviously not ready and there are only a few weeks left before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u385	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u386	First of all, we have not considered this rule in committee, as we have maintained its deletion decided by the Senate; It is therefore very surprising that such an amendment comes directly into the Chamber. Secondly, the adoption of an authorisation to legislate by order cannot be a substitute for a parliamentary debate on the substance or an extension of negotiations with the social partners. Each Member of Parliament here has been questioned by different professions: they have told us that they absolutely do not agree with this way of doing things. So many negotiations still have to take place with some of them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u387	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u388	We too want Article 6 to remain deleted, because it is our primary task to legislate: we must debate a comprehensive text. Earlier in the general discussion, I think it was Mrs Motin who said that the text was "historical".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u389	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u390	When I see the world in the Chamber, I'm a little surprised! This may also be because, increasingly, Members are being excluded from this type of discussion. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u391	I have before me four amendments, Nos 9, 156, 10 and 11, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 9 and 156 are identical. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u392	You all remember article 14 of the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022: its aim was to limit the benefit of the status of working spouse to a period of five years, so to act its transitional character, in order to limit the possible situation of the spouse's economic dependence on the entrepreneur and to allow him to open up more social rights during his working life. However, this provision, in its current wording, would have the effect of reducing the right of spouses of entrepreneurs. Indeed, the status of collaborating spouse, like that of associate spouse, gives the right to be an elector and eligible for consular elections, a right which is not currently granted to employed spouses. Consequently, the limitation to five years of the status of collaborating spouse would deprive the spouses concerned of the ability to be voters and eligible for these elections. The amendment is therefore intended to correct this omission by introducing into the draft law in favour of independent professional activity a provision granting spouses of entrepreneurs who have opted for the status of an employee spouse the right to vote and to be eligible for elections to chambers of commerce and craft trades or chambers of commerce and industry, provided that they perform functions involving the commercial, technical or administrative management of the undertaking or establishment. This new provision complements the existing provisions allowing certain categories of employees with management mandates to be electors and eligible for membership in the consular chambers; It is consistent with that granting paid entrepreneurs the right to be electors and eligible for consular elections. It is intended to serve the participation of women in the elections of the consular chambers and equality within their bodies. Finally, I would like to point out that this amendment has been worked out in consultation with the U2P.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u393	Amendment No 156 by Mrs Valérie Six is being defended. Mrs Véronique Riotton has the floor to support Amendments Nos 10 and 11, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u394	I agree with the honourable Member's arguments: we hope that the spouses who are employed will enjoy the same rights as the spouses who are employees and thus form part of the electoral body of the chambers of commerce and industry, as proposed in Amendment No 10, and of the chambers of trade and crafts, as proposed in Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u395	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u396	With regard to parity, it is clear that we all agree to support it. But what bothers me a little is that this argument is put forward to propose a device that will pose other problems. In order to achieve parity in the consular chambers, I do not think there is a need for legislation: we can ensure that it is necessary. If your proposal bothers me, it is because, if we open up to the employed spouses the possibility of voting or being eligible on a list in the consular elections, why would the other employees not be able to do so, too?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u397	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u398	Why should this right be limited to salaried spouses on the grounds that they were previously co-workers? In my opinion, this is not possible: it would be the door open to the demands of other people who would ask us to be also voters and eligible. That's a bad idea. If it is a question of parity, I repeat, there are other ways to achieve it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u400	My arguments are consistent with those of the rapporteur. Employees are neither voters nor eligible for KIC CMA elections, with the exception of executives when representing a company. The status of an employed spouse is intended to secure the employment status of the spouse of the head of enterprise and not to grant him rights which are not available to other employees. Like the rapporteur, I think we have to stay there. I invite you to withdraw your amendments. Otherwise, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u401	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u402	You're both very conservative!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u403	That's right, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u404	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u405	At the end of your remarks, Minister Delegate, you have lowered your tone so that we do not hear, but you have recalled that some employees, in managerial positions, are currently eligible. During this five-year temporary situation, why withdraw the right to vote or even to be elected from these spouses? In any case, after a maximum of five, they will be co-workers and have the right to vote. It's not a matter, and between us, it's even the U2P that proposes it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u406	Well, that's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u407	Are you against the U2P, Madam Rapporteur? That's not good!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u408	No, I'm not against the U2P at all, but it's not because she's proposing it that we don't have to think!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u409	They are right because we have already accepted this right for employees who hold managerial positions, as the minister delegate reminded us. We could perfectly adopt this provision which would not be an innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u410	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-10-O1116.u411	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further discussion of the draft law in favour of independent professional activity. The meeting is adjourned.
