ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u1	The next item is the debate on monitoring the implementation of the Act of 8 April 2021 improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u2	First of all, I would like to share with you the pride I have felt in my capacity as rapporteur of this bill that improves the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response. The drafting and adoption of this text would have been impossible without the support of the keepers of the seals, of my group, to act together, of the members of the Committee on Laws and of a very large majority of parliamentarians. Everyone, I wanted to thank you. Before discussing in detail the provisions contained in this law promulgated on 8 April 2021, it is necessary to mention its genesis and its foundations, in order to measure its benefits and to establish a reading grid to evaluate its effectiveness. With hindsight, we can say without caricature that this law is one of the components of the series of reforms undertaken to build confidence in justice. Indeed, before the law of 22 December 2021 on confidence in the judicial institution and the organization of the general states of justice, this bill contributed to meeting one of the priorities of this five-year end, namely the fight against the incivilities of everyday life. The Action Together group and the Chancellery have worked together to create a text that will improve the treatment of what can be called petty crime, for which, most often, the courts do not have enough time. The structural difficulty of quickly producing a criminal response to these offences gives the impression that the perpetrators remain unpunished, while they commit incivilities that rot the daily lives of the French. These are small acts that, in the long term, weaken the spirit of "living together" in a neighbourhood or commune: I am thinking among other things of the degradation of a bushouse, the registration of graffiti on the premises of a media library, or the theft of bicycles made available to the public by the community. When our political group and the Government started this joint work, the emergencies were elsewhere. The context was that of the health crisis and the Government ministries were encouraged to fight terrorism and pay special attention to the repression of attacks against mayors, police officers and gendarmes. However, we wanted to make it a priority to build trust in justice, because the judicial fabric of the territories, as well as the public services, helped to safeguard social cohesion, especially in times of unrest. In this regard, let us recall that we have recently adopted texts contributing to the development of the hearings in the places of access to the law, with a finer grid of the territories, and to the widening of the scope of intervention of the delegates of the prosecutor of the Republic. In the face of the social and societal consequences of the late response, or even the lack of a criminal response to everyday crime, namely the deterioration of the credibility or even the legitimacy of our judicial institution, we have made a diagnosis that constitutes the raison d'être of this bill. You'll tell me that this diagnosis was known to everyone. However, no legal parade had been found to remedy this scourge. Contrary to what might be proposed before, and even if these ideas seem to flourish at the dawn of electoral deadlines, the emphasis must be on the effectiveness of the penalties and not on their severity. In other words, it is not a question of considering that justice is lax, which is false, but that it does not always provide a prompt and effective criminal response. It is this lack of efficiency and the inability to limit recidivism that leads to this sense of impunity of the perpetrators and, in the long run, makes it appear that justice is still in the hands of the perpetrators. Why are you slowing down? Because the courts are engorged and have only a short time to deal with minor offences, which are found at the bottom of the stack of cases. And because – we often forget to say this – the procedures for dealing with such cases are often too cumbersome, even though they can be evacuated – attest to the local experiments carried out by prosecutors of the Republic of Dax and Rouen. The bill has thus sought to restore its letters of nobility to alternatives to prosecution, on the one hand because they are the vectors of a certain and rapid criminal response to the small crimes of everyday life, and on the other because they contribute to reducing congestion in the courts and allow judges to refocus on their office. Alternatives to prosecution also have the major advantage of giving the possibility of sanctioning without succumbing to the temptation of a false good solution of short sentences. As we know, these are desocializing and criminogenic. The Justice Programming Act of 23 March 2019 was already pursuing this objective through the reform of the sentencing regime. To put it clearly, we have particularly addressed these short sentences, which are simply useless and create insecurity and recidivism. In order to do this, we wanted to re-emphasize the coat of arms of the work of general interest, in that it places individual responsibility at the centre of the process. In the end, the bill to improve the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response was aimed at breaking the vicious circle of self-reproduction of petty crime due to recidivism generated by sentences applied too late – a phenomenon fuelling this famous feeling of impunity of the perpetrators and the ineffectiveness of our judicial institution. Together with the Ministry of Justice, the Action Together Group has therefore defended this text, which is based on two main lines of amendment to our procedure: on the one hand, the extension of the spectrum of measures which can be pronounced as alternatives to prosecution, and on the other hand, the facilitation of the use of work of general interest as a penalty. As regards alternatives to prosecution or, according to the jargon of prosecutors, "conditional classification", they constitute the third criminal route between prosecution and dismissal, and in 2019 accounted for 46.5% of the criminal response. They allow the offender, whose criminal record is usually blank, and provided that he or she recognizes the facts and complies with the measures imposed by the prosecutor, to have his or her record closed and his or her record left blank. This alternative to prosecution is described by some as "joker" given by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the minor offender. However, let us keep in mind that this joker is not free of charge, as the offender has to comply with obligations to benefit from it and expose himself to conventional criminal proceedings if he does not do so. The bill supplemented the alternatives to existing prosecutions with additional measures. Thus, the public prosecutor or his delegate may now ask the offender not to meet with the victim or his co-sponsors or accomplices, this prohibition being included in the register of persons sought. It may also be requested to provide compensation to the victim or to any other person who has had to incur costs, such as a territorial community. The perpetrator may also have to return the stolen objects, restore the damaged place or objects, or pay for their repair. He may have to return to the competent authorities or to a non-profit legal person the thing that served or was intended to commit the offence. Finally, it may have to make a "citizen's contribution" to an accredited victim support association. This financial contribution, which is fixed at 3000 euros, is not a criminal fine and must be a sanction adapted to the incivilities committed: it is already being implemented in the Northern Department. When considering the bill in the National Assembly, you also introduced by way of amendment, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility for the public prosecutor to ask the offender to respond to a summons from the mayor in order to conclude a transaction when the property of the municipality is concerned. This is a very important measure and I urge you to relay it to the mayors of your constituencies. In fact, mayors had difficulties in applying article 44 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to this transaction, as they were not necessarily informed of the outcome of the investigations. Thus, they could not always resort to this provision, even though they alone had the opportunity to do so. Thanks to the mechanism that you have introduced, the public prosecutor will now be able to initiate this procedure, after consulting the mayor. If the perpetrator does not appear at the convocation of the mayor or if no agreement is reached with him, the mayor may so inform the public prosecutor. You see, therefore, that this law is close to the ground, trusts local elected officials and places justice in contact with the citizen. As far as public service work is concerned, it is, as you know, a criminal sanction imposed on anyone who has committed an offence. In concrete terms, the offender must work free of charge, for a period fixed by the judge, on behalf of a public body – a prefecture, a hospital –, a private body entrusted with a public service mission – for example a public transport authority –, a local authority or an authorized association – for example a social integration association. We have focused on the TIG, because it is an effective measure, which is endorsed by the judges. As I have pointed out earlier, this mechanism contributes to the reintegration of the individual, giving him or her a social role that must be encouraged. The proposed law thus allowed the JAP to free itself from the cumbersome procedures that slowed down the use of TIGs. With a view to simplifying and clarifying the competences of the actors, the text entrusts the officials of the Directorate of the Prison Service for Integration and Probation (SPIP) with the task of drawing up a list of TIGs in the department and monitoring their execution. The JAP, which has thus far held this jurisdiction, will retain the opportunity to intervene in the decision to assign a convicted person to a particular TIG. Alternatives to prosecution and work of general interest were part of our legal arsenal long before the passage of the bill, we agree. However, the meaning of the text was to empower the judiciary to actually put those tools in motion. For example, we have made a procedural adjustment that will allow for a considerable fluidisation of the relationship between the imposition of the penalty and the actual performance of the TIGs. The law improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response also addresses two other issues that need to be addressed: the extension to fifth-class contraventions of the flat-rate fine scheme, which allows for the effective recovery of fines, and the strengthening of the criminal composition. The examination of the text at the Palais du Luxembourg also gave the Agency for the Management and Recovery of Seized and Confiscated Assets (AGRASC) the opportunity to make real property seized or confiscated in criminal proceedings available to the voluntary sector or organizations involved in housing policy. This mechanism has also been the subject of an implementing decree, which defines the procedure for the award of supply contracts, which takes place after publicity and competition, and the forms they may take. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to inform you that this bill has been the subject of some 20 hearings and several round tables bringing together a wide range of interlocutors. All enthusiastically welcomed the measures we have defended and detailed. In conclusion, I would like once again to thank you for making this law possible and for having voted on it. I also urge you once again to do what is commonly known as the VAS – after-sales service – of this text with the legal and judicial fabric of your constituencies as well as, of course, the elected ones. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] One day, a mayor told me ironically, but rather revealingly, that even if he managed to find a job, a dwelling or a parking space for an administrator, he would still be dissatisfied, because the mayor and his police did not get hold of the one who burned his trash. More than ever before, under these turbulent circumstances, let us stand alongside the living forces of our territory and our representatives of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u3	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u4	Restoring community justice to combat incivilities and daily delinquency is a necessity in our country. The IDU and independent group is obviously in favour of this objective. Our fellow citizens must be able to rely on their justice on a daily basis – a justice that is faster and closer, down from this often shared sense of justice that is too far away. In parliamentary discussions, we felt that the bill should be more ambitious. The Government seemed to have major plans in this area; We are waiting for it to come to fruition. However, the text proposed by our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party has provided some good practical measures. We agreed with the two main thrusts of the bill: to broaden the scope of alternative measures to prosecution and to facilitate the use of community service. Having kept the spirit of these provisions in mind, however, we recall the few reservations that we have already expressed, in particular the fact that diversion can only be conceived when it does not affect the rights of the accused. The Senate's additions have been a useful addition to the text. I am thinking in particular of putting forward the possibility of making a transaction with the mayor, or of the fact that the divestment of the thing that was used to commit the act or the proceeds of the offence can be carried out for the benefit of a not-for-profit legal person. Finally, educational measures are always welcome, such as the proposal to carry out a parenting internship. I stress this point, because it is important to stress that there may be other answers than the simple punishment. To highlight this idea is one of the main assets of the bill. In this sense, speed should not always be the main argument for justice reforms. As we said in the Joint Joint Committee (JC), the IDU and Independent Group considers that this text, although it does not contain any revolutionary measures, is in the right direction. The question now relates to the practical application of the proposed measures. They call for strengthened follow-up, which may represent an additional workload for all magistrates and judicial officers. In this context, we reiterate our concern at the slow recruitment of the 1100 jobs promised, the creation of the new medical and judicial units, the establishment of fairground hearings and the new methods of action of the prosecutor's delegates. Other issues remain outstanding. Should the new citizen contribution be interpreted as a disguised fine? How can we ensure the relevance of this device? What are the guarantees of effectiveness for the proposed new measures and how will the implementation of these obligations be monitored? It seems difficult for prosecutors, who have already been overwhelmed, to carry out this additional task. Similarly, if it seems appropriate to simplify the procedures for carrying out work of general interest, this decision must not lead to its complete diversion. Finally, the measures contained in the law seem far from the ambition of the explanatory memorandum to "restore community justice to combat incivility and daily delinquency, by enhancing the effectiveness of criminal responses". That is why it is relevant to mention all these enforcement concerns that improve the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response in your presence, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, and with all parliamentary groups, so that the measures are up to the law passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u5	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u6	I understood that the challenge of our discussion was not only to provide after-sales service to the bill, but also to get a first return from the seal keeper. My questions are substantially the same as at the time of his examination; I will therefore, too, await the Government's answers before we ask questions that are likely to be more specific. In the preamble, I would like to recall our questions. Proximity justice cannot be considered solely in its criminal dimension, since it is essentially civil justice. But it's the criminal dimension that I'm focusing on today. First of all, what about the training of the prosecutor's delegates, who were thought to be the working ankle of the bill? We've recruited more, but we know the pool isn't very large. Has there been a substantial change in this training, especially for prosecutors' delegates who are neither former magistrates nor professionals from the judiciary? The lack of judges, including the prosecution service, mobilized the judges themselves in mid-December. There is a limit to the exercise: until the number of judges is doubled, we will face the same difficulties in organising the judicial institution. The flat-rate fines have been substantially amended since the law was passed. So far, the possibility of reinvigorating the proceedings was foreseen as soon as the second lump sum fine was imposed; It was therefore necessary to keep a record of those who had received a fine before issuing a second fine. The draft law on criminal responsibility and internal security had introduced a provision abolishing the need to consider the resumption of prosecution, so that a police officer could now, on his own initiative, impose on a person as many lump-sum fines as he wished. I do not know if we have any elements, as this decision is recent, but it seems to me to depart from the original philosophy of the text. The aim is no longer to have less prosecution, but to have no more prosecution at all! This raises other questions, including the repressive, immediate and direct role left in the hands of the police officers alone. If we look at recent texts, since the programming law for 2018-2022, the general intention was to reduce short prison sentences and avoid overburdened immediate appearances, which do not allow for justice. Four and a half years later, the balance sheet is not very good. He's even pretty bad. One of the points raised in the judges' rostrum was that, if more powers were placed in the hands of the prosecutor's office with alternative proceedings, they did not reduce the volume of cases dealt with. By planning to avoid sentences of less than six months, the programming law had two effects. First, the number of short sentences has decreased less than we can imagine, as guarantees are needed, including housing; However, many offenders do not have this guarantee of geographical stability. Secondly, the latest studies by the statistical service of the Ministry of Justice show an increase in the length of sentences. At the time, we pointed out the risk of a likely threshold effect: if a six-month sentence cannot be imposed, it will be six and a half months, seven or eight months. This is what is happening, and although the prisons were largely emptied during the first wave of the covid-19, we almost returned to the initial level, as we crossed the mark of the 70000 prisoners. I have the impression that whenever additional powers are given to the prosecutor's office without amending the criminal code, the criminal field is only expanding, i.e. the number of persons accused by the courts is increasing without being accompanied by a reduction in the number of offences. Finally, I would like to have some information on the possibility of allowing associations to benefit from the confiscations resulting from the offences, particularly in the case of mafia systems. Are there already examples of cases where this measure has been implemented? I know that its implementation is not obvious.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u7	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u8	I would like to thank our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party for organizing this debate on the enforcement and control of the law, which improves the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response, especially at a time when a very large social movement is developing within the judicial community. From the red robes of the magistrates, who call in number for a burst to save our judicial system, to the black robes of the lawyers who deplore to no longer have the means to exercise their profession, and to the small hands of the courts, who are forced to slaughter for lack of sufficient means, all denounce a missed quinquennium that has failed to save the judicial institution from an advanced clochardization, in the words of a guard of the seals of the previous quinquennium. Admittedly, the evil is deep and ancient, and all responsibility for the present government cannot be rejected. Our justice has suffered for years from a policy that has reduced its resources to dramatic proportions. The reform of the judicial map, which led to the abolition of nearly 400 courts between 2008 and 2011, has hit this institution very hard; the situation was aggravated during this quinquennium by the closure of countless courts of procedure, whereas these are those of the local justice for the French and French. In my department, I see the feeling that for the poor there will always be only poor justice. Opportunities have not missed, however, to correct the shot. Over the past five years, we have reviewed a considerable number of laws relating to justice. But it has long been known that legislative inflation and the effectiveness of a policy are often incompatible. Let us take the case of the proximity of justice and the criminal response: it is a missed opportunity that justified my group's abstention, because despite some interesting measures, it has in no way provided a sufficient response to the problem of territorial mesh, nor to the feeling of stalling that our fellow citizens encounter with their justice, especially in the forgotten territories of the Republic. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, on this subject, the feeling of abandonment is great and it grows stronger over the years. For 67% of French people, a proportion that is constantly increasing, access to the law is deteriorating, and this so-called lack of proximity has deteriorated further in the last five years. Should we recall the harmful effects produced by the law of 2018, the one which allowed the merger of 285 courts of procedure and 164 courts of great jurisdiction of France, moving a little further away from the places of justice and abandoning territories already in bad shape? Instead of creating a justice system close to the twenty-first century, instead of thinking about it in conjunction with land-use planning in an attempt to correct territorial inequalities, we have witnessed the closure of jurisdictions and the intensification of the dematerialization of procedures, which is always a punishment for the poorest and most desocialized. All of this has the effect of allowing magistrates to exercise their profession in inhumane courts, far removed from the daily lives of French and French people, and leaving French people in need of access to their rights. Unfortunately, the law we are looking at today's implementation has not solved anything, despite its good intentions. This is quite normal: proximity is not decreed, it is built with sufficient means. Mr Keeper of the Seals, for months you have rightly told us that you have obtained a record increase in the appropriations allocated to justice, as if it were a magical response to all the criticisms made by the professionals of the justice system. But if we show some honesty, if we look at this increase in detail, we can see that the majority of these appropriations have returned to the prison administration and that only 3% of this increase is spent on the rest of the judicial institution, which is far too little to fill the existing shortcomings and ensure the effectiveness of the new reforms. We remain at the bottom of the list for many indicators. With 10.9 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, our country is far from the European average. This is even more obvious for the number of prosecutors: 12.13 per 100,000 inhabitants on the European continent, compared to only 3 in France. In these circumstances, how can we take stock of the so-called "neighbourly justice" law, when all the actors in the judicial community – I say all of them – say that nothing has changed or that everything has worsened? How can we evaluate the texts adopted when the means of ensuring their effectiveness are sorely lacking? That's what thousands of justice professionals are telling you to do. Keeper of the seals, professionals ask you to restore the means of justice – and not just the ministry's budget, with its various variables – and we with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u9	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u10	First of all, I wanted to convey to you, very sincerely, my best wishes for the year 2022. May she be inspiring and bold, and bring you good health, especially during this period. We are meeting today to monitor, under article 24 of the Constitution, that the regulatory application of the law improving the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response of 8 April 2021 is in accordance with the will of the legislator and that it is well implemented. This is an important moment for our fellow citizens, who are listening to us. At the outset, I would like to point out that its aim was to improve community justice, simplify its procedures, supplement alternative measures with new means of prosecution and combat the incivilities and petty crime which enquire our fellow citizens, such as tags, insults, rodeos and so on. It was a law expected by our fellow citizens, resulting from the collective work of our common house, which reflected the guidelines outlined by the Prime Minister in his general policy speech of 15 July 2020. I would therefore like to thank the members of the Action Group, and in particular the rapporteur Dimitri Houbron, for defending it, the parliamentarians for adopting it, and the Minister of Justice for supporting it. The first option was to expand alternative measures to prosecution, because it is a way to improve the criminal response and to better collaborate with local community justice partners, who are doing outstanding work on the ground. From now on, the public prosecutor can ask the offender to pay a citizen's contribution capped at 3000 euros, the amount of which is determined by the public prosecutor according to the seriousness of the facts and the resources and charges of the offender. The prosecutor may also request the offender to enter into a transaction with the mayor of his municipality to make reparation for his harm, to perform thirty hours of unpaid work, not to meet the victim or his accomplices or co-sponsors, or to hand over to the authorities the thing that was or would have been used to commit the offence. The Act has also strengthened the measures taken within the framework of the criminal composition. The perpetrator of a low-intensity offence may now be sentenced not to 60 hours of unpaid work, but to up to 100 hours. Above all, this law makes it possible to better include partner structures: employers in the social and solidarity economy can now welcome unpaid workers. One last strong step, which is important and which I would like to stress, is the obligation to complete a parenting internship. This is a valuable step forward, especially in family law cases. In order to help the integration and probation services to better meet the needs of the users and to streamline the use of public works, this law and its implementing decree allow, on the one hand, to eliminate the systematic demand for the medical certificate for the user of the SPIP, a measure necessary to speed up the execution of works of general interest, and, on the other hand, to strengthen the role of the director of the insertion and probation service in determining the procedures for carrying out works of general interest – subject, of course, to the right of the enforcement judge to retain this competence. In order to improve the effectiveness of the criminal response to daily offences, the new legal framework provides for the reduction of the flat-rate fine to cover fifth-class violations and violations of the other four classes where a regulation so provides. This procedure encourages the voluntary payment of the fine and, once again, contributes to the construction of a justice system that is more responsive and closer to the ground. Finally, this text introduces an original provision: the provision and management of real property seized in criminal proceedings by associations, foundations or bodies contributing to the objectives of the housing policy. This measure has been applicable since the Government decree of 2 November 2021. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] These are twelve articles in total, for a single specific purpose: to strengthen the effectiveness of criminal responses to the incivilities of everyday life, by fluidizing and simplifying the work of public justice officials. Mr. Keeper of the Seals, we share the same vision of justice. We wish the best for her, because she will give the best to our fellow citizens. To this often mistreated institution, which has undergone job cuts, as has been pointed out, we are now giving more means, so that it is closer to people, and we will continue to work in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u11	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u12	For several months we have had the opportunity to review the text improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response. The action of our majority was expected by our fellow citizens in this field which concerns all the territories. I would like to thank Dimitri Houbron and the Action Group for this work. It was about fighting the incivilities of everyday life that undermine the lives of our fellow citizens. Above all, it was a matter of restoring meaning and its full role to justice in all its dimensions. For this, we have adopted ambitious and proportionate measures which, I believe, will bear fruit, and new alternatives to prosecution, from which we now exclude the reminder of the law, which does not give real meaning to the penalty. We preferred a probationary penal warning, reparation for the harm caused to the victims, payment of a contribution to the approved associations or restitution of the thing used to commit the crime. These new alternatives make it possible to find the necessary balance between prevention and repression, and tend more towards the accountability of the perpetrators. Similarly, we are strengthening the criminal composition by increasing the maximum number of hours of unpaid work to one hundred instead of sixty in the past. We have also made the choice – and I welcome it – to involve local elected officials in the criminal composition when the property of their commune is concerned. They will thus be able to summon the perpetrators of the offence to decide on a transaction which will enable the municipality to obtain redress, in particular by carrying out works of general interest. As my colleague Blandine Brocard had the opportunity to say during the discussion of the text, the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and the Group of the European People's Party (Allied Democrats) is convinced that in our communes mayors play a central role in the prevention of these offences and in the preservation of public tranquillity, and that they can help to empower the perpetrators and bring them back into the life of the commune, beginning by respecting them. This text has enabled us to give meaning to many commitments that the majority has also made. The strengthening of community justice makes it possible to make effective the fight against numerous offences: the deposit or abandonment of objects and waste, night noise, the occupation of building halls in groups, the degradation of public and private property, motorised rodeo or sexist outrage. In adopting this text, the majority showed its determination to combat in a concrete way the incivilities that I mentioned earlier. We have also noted, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, that the Government has soon implemented the text adopted by Parliament. You have embarked on a massive recruitment campaign to strengthen the judiciary in charge of dealing with community justice on the ground. At the national level, close to 1000 additional prosecutors' delegates – a doubling of the staff – will quickly implement the measures we have adopted. With the massive increase in the budget of justice voted by the majority, it is the application of this text, of considerable importance for our citizens, for justice and for the Republic, that we defend. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] Colleagues, justice requires our constant work and commitment in all its aspects. Thanks to this text, we laid one more stone on the building. For these reasons, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats is pleased to have supported it and to continue to work to strengthen the judicial institution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u13	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u14	Here comes the time of the first review. To establish local justice to fight in all territories against the daily crime that poisons the lives of many of our fellow citizens, is one of the prime minister's commitments in his general policy speech. The Government and the majority have called for a rapid, systematic and proportionate criminal response to this phenomenon of petty crime, which is rotting the lives of our compatriots on a daily basis. In order to bring about this justice in the daily life we called for, we used all the tools we had at our disposal. The financial means first, with a double historical increase in the budget of justice; the adoption of a new law improving the effectiveness of community justice and the criminal response, known as community justice, which I look forward to presenting to you the implementation report; the publication of regulations, which were necessary for the proper implementation of this justice which is closer and faster than we all want. First, community justice has resulted in a significant increase in financial and human resources, without which nothing would have been possible and which illustrates the Government's exceptional investment in achieving its objectives. More than 900 public officials were recruited for three years under community criminal justice, starting in December 2020. For the courts, 156 legal assistants, 153 category A staff to strengthen the team around the magistrate and 600 category B registry reinforcements were recruited. Many jobs have been allocated to improving the quality of the physical, telephone and electronic reception of litigants, especially those in difficulty, in order to facilitate their orientation and their approaches. The increased use of honorary magistrates and temporary magistrates, which allow judges to sit in outsourced hearings, has been made possible by a dedicated budget of EUR 13 million, which corresponds to the financing of 300 annual vacancies per magistrate. In addition, on 15 December 2020, I issued a circular on the implementation of community justice, in which I asked prosecutors to hold hearings in local courts and access structures to point-justice law, but also to ensure better responsiveness and a faster criminal response through the increased use of prosecutors' delegates in alternatives to prosecution. We have thus significantly increased the number of prosecutors' delegates: 838 prosecutors' delegates were exercising as of 1 December 2020; As of December 1, 2021, 956 of them were registered, an increase of 14 per cent. Their remuneration has also been increased. Finally, and of course that is what we are interested in this morning, there is the law of 8 April 2021. His initiative is the responsibility of Dimitri Houbron and his colleagues in the "Acting Together" group, but also the majority in a broader sense. Here I would like to warmly welcome their work: this law has been a perfect complement to the measures I have just listed and has thus allowed us to go beyond the limits imposed by the regulatory field. I therefore turn to the review of this law, starting with the publication of decrees implementing its provisions. As we had committed ourselves to it, all were published before the end of 2021, be it the decree of 2 November 2021 allowing the Agency for the Management and Recovery of Seized and Confiscated Assets to make available to the voluntary sector the real property seized in the framework of the criminal procedure, or the decree of 22 December 2021 simplifying the procedure for the authorization of reception and allocation structures on jobs of general interest. We can therefore welcome the effective and diversified increase in the number of alternatives to prosecution, which enable us to respond quickly and effectively to a crime that the French no longer tolerate. Two striking examples: nearly 4,600 reparations were handed down against adults in 2021, compared to only 700 in 2018, a six-fold increase in three years; Almost 40 per cent of the courts have established the citizen contribution created by the Act of 8 April 2021, and more than 280 contributions have been ordered. This measure, which enables the public prosecutor to request the perpetrator to make a contribution to a victim support association, is intended to develop: a very clear dispatch of 8 June 2021 encourages the courts to draw up conventions for this purpose. Work of general interest is an essential part; It is particularly suitable to suppress the incivilities of everyday life. You know the principle: you break, you repair; You destroy, you compensate; You're dirty, you're indemnifying. But to make sense, this type of punishment must be carried out quickly. But that was not the case until recently. The Act of 8 April 2021 and its implementing decree have thus made a part of the procedure more difficult and simplified certain administrative constraints, notably by abolishing the systematic production of a medical certificate of fitness by convicted persons. By providing new skills to the Prison Service for Integration and Probation and the Judicial Protection of Youth (PJJ), the Decree will also alleviate the procedures for the empowerment of the structures hosting TIGs, and simplify the assignment to a position of the sentenced person. At the same time, we are pursuing a very proactive policy, particularly with local authorities, to increase and diversify the supply of jobs. We have also created the innovative IT tool TIG 360 °, in order to dematerialize the procedure and allow the interconnection of all actors – lawyers, mayors, magistrates. It has significantly reduced the time frame for the execution of sentences. Despite the health crisis, we have 21635 posts, of which 1456 are open to minors, compared to less than 18,000 in 2019. This is an increase of more than 20% in just three years. With regard to the speed of the criminal response, the provisions of the decree of 21 December 2020 increasing the effectiveness of criminal proceedings and the rights of victims now allow the delegates of the prosecutor to hold permanent offices and implement, within tight deadlines, the new measures provided for by the law of April 2021. For example, 30 per cent of the public prosecutor's offices have put in place a presentation to the prosecutor's delegate at the end of police custody, and 45 per cent of the public prosecutor's offices have put in place a presentation at short notice following the hearing or police custody. A total of 42.8 per cent of the courts increased the number of vacancies of prosecutors' delegates between 1 December 2020 and 1 December 2021. Finally, real channels of community justice have been created: thirty-five courts have developed a short course of implementation of unpaid work, which is another terribly effective tool for improving the criminal response. As I said, community justice also sought to bring the judicial institution closer to the territories in order to render justice outside the courts. This geographical proximity to the defendant has been truly invested by the courts. For example, fairground hearings are held in Cholet, Saint-Denis, Marmande; In particular, they allowed, Mr.Peu, the reopening of local courts closed in 2008 by Mrs.Rachida Dati, not their closure as you said.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u15	Aubervilliers was closed under this legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u16	The fairground hearings also concern juvenile justice, as is the case in Ardèche. Another significant figure is that in 75 per cent of the courts, prosecutors' delegates make decisions outside the walls. It's absolutely considerable! On average, at the national level, they hold 1252 hearings off-wall on a monthly basis, with a total of 91402 criminal responses issued since the launch of the community justice support plan. Finally, it also involves strengthening the institutional dialogue with local elected officials, to which I pay particular attention. Again, prosecutors have fully invested local partnerships with elected officials in the areas of crime detection, recall and crime prevention. Indeed, the circular of 29 June 2020 encourages prosecutors to come closer to the mayors, so that they can exercise their powers, whether it is a call to order or a municipal transaction. The majority of courts have signed recall agreements with municipalities to facilitate the treatment of small incivilities. On the other hand, only 1314 communes are involved: we need more mayors to invest in this protocol. This does not prevent us from looking for ways to improve. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office of Poitiers has signed a framework agreement with the Association of Mayors of France and the Presidents of Intercommunality of Vienna to promote, on a large scale, to the various communes of the resort, the mechanisms of recall to order and the transaction by the mayor. Finally, it should be noted that tools have been developed to promote communication with elected officials. Thus, the Valenciennes Public Prosecutor's Office has created an e-mail address dedicated to elected officials, and its initiative has been largely taken over since more than 60% of the courts now have a circuit dedicated to relations with local elected officials. More than 75 per cent of the courts have also appointed one or more magistrates to act as interlocutors for elected officials, in accordance with my instructions. I have set up a new working committee to bring the public prosecutor's offices and local elected representatives closer together. Before concluding, since my statements will then be limited to two minutes, I would like to reply to two speakers. You asked me about the training of the D.A. delegates, Mr. Bernalicis. I would remind you that they are entitled to practice with the public prosecutor after a probationary period of one year. They then have access to the training of the National School of the Judiciary. When they are appointed, they can take another training course on theoretical input and situational situations. With regard to the fate of seized property assigned to associations, the decree issued on 2 November 2021 provides that real property which is free of occupiers is managed by AGRASC when it has been the subject of a final confiscation order. It determines the conditions of morality and good repute required to benefit from the scheme and provides for the procedure for making available contracts, subject to the joint approval of the Minister of Justice and the Minister responsible for the budget. Finally, it lays down the conditions for monitoring the performance of the contract by the beneficiary of the provision. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis acquiesce]] You have fulfilled your legislative obligations; I have fulfilled my regulatory obligations. For the moment, we do not have a return of experience – of RETEX, as we say in the jargon. That will be the case in the near future. However, the decree obviously envisages that this provision, which is consensual, can be applied, as it is in the right direction. Mr Little, you have referred to access to justice for the poorest. Our government has increased legal aid by EUR 100 million, an effort that no other government has made, let us say clearly. We've multiplied the points of justice. Often located in France Services houses, they provide a first aid to the poorest of our compatriots, in particular to guide them, because justice is sometimes complicated. We have reopened many places of justice. I'm surprised you're blaming us for allocating an exorbitant portion of the budget to the prison administration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u17	I didn't say that! It's the part for justice that's too weak!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u18	Maybe, but it's like a four-quarters, to use a pastry metaphor that was used recently. I have a budget, I need to allocate it. What would I have been told if we had not spent money on the prison administration to ensure the security of the officers and better conditions for the detainees?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u19	That's absolutely not what I blamed you for!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u20	Not a judge of this country, who guarantees individual freedom under our Constitution, is insensitive to the prison condition and the security of the officers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u21	It's bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u22	For the rest, the share allocated to judicial services is not zero. You seem to have forgotten that under the mandate of the President of the Republic, the budget of the judicial services has increased by 18 per cent: it has increased more in five years than in the previous ten years, under the left and right combined. Finally, you did not vote on one of the two budgets I presented.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u23	Of course, and I'm not close to doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u24	It is easy to cry out orfray and ask for more means, more means, more means. When we defended an 8 per cent increase in the historical budget, I was given a cautious look and told that it would be a blow to the water, because I wouldn't have a second equivalent budget. When we recidivated, if you allow me to use this singular verb, you were no longer on the rendezvous. It is therefore inappropriate for you to criticise this budget: it may not be enough, but when you were asked to vote, you did not!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u25	Because it wasn't enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u26	Furthermore, you will see that the Chancellery is fully committed to the application of this law, and more broadly to the establishment of a genuine criminal justice system, since that is what is being discussed today, Mr Bernalicis, not to mention, of course, the civil justice system. We have the first results and they are extremely encouraging. All the figures we have presented, in the course of a long press conference, are also on the website of the Ministry of Justice: in the matter of destocking, for example, the results are already convincing – I say without forcing – and we can be proud of them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Of course, you can count on my full and complete mobilization to continue in this direction and to make the justice of our country a real public service of proximity and daily life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u27	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes. There is no right of reply. Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u28	First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Keepers of the Seals for the elements he has provided, which demonstrate a genuine desire to defy the ambition of this bill in concrete terms. Like any law, it will only be effective if the relevant actors take full advantage of it. I therefore commend the Ministry for encouraging prosecutors and other judicial bodies to do so. My first question concerns the implementing decree of 22 December, which specifies the conditions for the implementation of public works and unpaid work (TNR). If it is too early to monitor and evaluate its effectiveness, I would like to point out that there is a concern in my discussions with staff: it relates to the difficulty of having reception facilities for TIGs and NRTs in some territories. Indeed, while some of them are well-equipped, others are less well-equipped. Are there any reflections in the ministry on how we could encourage more public actors to seize these issues? Since large cities have much more capacity, could they perhaps take charge of a quota of people in TIG in order to value the approach? My second question concerns the amendment adopted by the Senate to extend the experiment to allow employers in the social and solidarity economy to set up the famous TIGs and TNRs. Do we know how many have been put in place in these types of structures? Can we assess its effectiveness with regard to the lack of recidivism of the persons concerned?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u29	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u30	On the second point, that of the private economy, we find, without being worried, that the health crisis which is afflicting us is an important obstacle, even if we have not lost sight of the possibility of extending the work of general interest. We have a network of seventy-two territorial referents to explore the new places of reception. We are pursuing a voluntary policy of conventions with powerful actors, which have a national presence: forty conventions have already been signed and four will be signed in the near future. We also have this very nice information tool that is the TIG 360 ° platform. I've known the time when a court issued a TIG, he didn't even know if it was available. Now we know this, thanks to this tool, also accessible to lawyers, who can themselves propose TIGs. This platform also allows the convicted person who works not to lose his job: in this case, one will opt for a TIG that can be made on weekends, thanks to the TIG 360 ° platform. There is a will and a real job for this tool – ancient, but which has so far served little – to be used. I have given the figures, which are quite remarkable and will help us to respond to the petty crime that rots – we all see – the lives of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u31	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your presence this morning, which allows us to refer to the law that improves the effectiveness of community justice. As a former mayor of a municipality of the Somme, I can only agree with the observation made in his explanatory memorandum: almost 90% of the proceedings initiated receive a judicial response, but it often comes too late.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u33	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u34	The idea behind this law – allowing for a quick response, thanks to geographical proximity, with justice rendered as close as possible to the commission of offences in the territories, and to the temporal proximity, with prompt justice in the pronouncement of the sanction – is therefore in the right direction. On 15 December 2020, you issued a circular to the public prosecutors and public prosecutors on the implementation of community justice. You listed 350 offences of medium intensity...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u35	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u36	... identified by the ministry as falling within the framework of proximity justice, in the sense of criminal behaviour that disturbs everyday life. I am pleased that urban rodeo and the alteration of public tranquillity are included in this list, both in terms of stress and in terms of physical and sound aggression, which are a daily phenomenon for our fellow citizens. They are also a cause for concern for elected officials on the ground. My question is simple: how will this list be updated in the years to come? Will there be a consultation between elected officials on the ground and the Ministry of Justice, and if so, in what form?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u37	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u38	With regard to updating this list, I answer with simplicity: these offences will always rot the lives of our fellow citizens when they are committed; However, adjustments are of course possible. It is too early to assess the relevance of this list: this assessment will be carried out through the annual reports of the Public Prosecutor's Office, fed by the returns of the prosecutors' delegates, who are closest to the field, by exchanges with elected officials in the framework of the local security and crime prevention councils (CLSPD) and local crime treatment groups (GLTD) and by the circuits set up by the public prosecutors' offices in the framework of the community justice system. I will not fail to keep you informed as soon as I myself have knowledge of these various reports, and I will pass on all these elements to you, as well as to the entire national representation. It always takes time between the launch of a criminal policy and the results on the ground. We already have a number of mechanisms for criminal justice. We now have a document that centralizes everything we have done throughout the country: it is extremely voluminous and I intend to share it with the national representation, because the results are at the rendezvous of our ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u39	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u40	I really want to argue about the budget, but I'm not going to do it, to be quite kind. I would simply point out to the minister that the vote for or against a budget is not only based on its amount, but also on the use of its appropriations and its implementation. Our group has two questions, complementary to our debate. The first concerns the means dedicated to pre-trial investigations, the rapid social investigations carried out by associations or by the Prison Service for Integration and Probation in order to know who is the perpetrator of the offence, to avoid prison sentences and to impose the penalties that are most suited to the profile of the person who committed the offence. Can you tell us about recent developments on this point? Another question: how will the announcements you seem to have made about the night hearings for immediate appearances materialize? Has anything already been formalized outside of your public statements, at what time and in what way?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u41	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u42	[[Smile]] I am pleased that you did not want to argue, Mr Bernalicis: perhaps these are the good resolutions that you want to apply to yourself at the beginning of the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u43	I'm not sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u44	[[Smile]] Unfortunately, the year had begun before this morning!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u45	[[Smile]] Really? These debates were not about my perimeter, even though they were of great interest to me, Mr. President. But please don't put oil on the fire!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u46	He's a specialist!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u47	Of course, we wanted to improve social surveys, which are extraordinarily useful: the increase is in the order of 114%. If you wish, I will be able to bring you additional elements: from memory, we have increased from 70 euros to 150 euros. This issue is important because we need social investigations, the main purpose of which is to allow the judge to refine the decision to intervene – what is called the customization of the sentence, which allows the judge to express his or her judicial freedom and to consider the best possible decision. I will of course be happy to convey to you all the useful elements, in the pacified spirit that you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u48	The floor is for Mr Stéphane Peu, in a spirit just as pacified...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u49	[[Smile]] Always, Mr. President! You will never hear me complain about the increase in the prison administration's budget, minister. I simply regret that the budget of justice – the part devoted to justice, to the functioning of our courts – is only 3%. And as long as this budget is so indigent, he won't have my voice! I would like to refer to the Seine-Saint-Denis, where I live, work and raise my children. I have been exercising public responsibilities there for decades. Presidents of the Republic, ministers, prefects, we've seen them march! Some of them have even had words that come back to our memory at the moment – I am thinking of a president who came to La Courneuve talking about the Kärcher. We saw it unfold, we heard things: we even complained, in the parliamentary report on the Seine-Saint-Denis, to the Prime Minister of the time, asking him to tell his ministers to stop coming to Seine-Saint-Denis – or to go there sparingly, but with ringing and tripping, concrete things. However, we know how to be hospitable, but we are also stubborn and pragmatic people. My question will therefore be simple, Minister. On 19 January, the court will hold a formal court hearing. During the first week of February – a week of control – we will take stock of the plan "the stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis". The above-mentioned parliamentary report referred, with regard to the relationship between the seat and the prosecutor's office, to fifty-three prosecutors at the Bobigny court in 2016. In January 2022, how many are they? Fifty-three. Between 2016 and 2022, the population has increased, the problems have worsened, the court is facing considerable difficulties – but we have the same number of prosecutors! You may as well say that we will never be satisfied with speeches: we want actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u50	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u51	I answered you on the question of the budget, Mr. Little. Part of the budget is allocated to the Directorate of Prison Administration (DAP), another to the judicial services. The budget for judicial services has increased by 18 per cent in five years, which is more than the left and right combined in ten years. No one disputes this reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u52	That's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u53	Many magistrates, and in particular prosecutors, have publicly said that, thanks to this budget, they have been able to accomplish what they have dreamed of doing for the past fifteen years. The budget for judicial services has increased by 12% in two years: 308 million more, it's not nothing! This supports the comparison with many other budgets – with all budgets for thirty years, I would be tempted to say. Contrary to what you said, the Aubervilliers District Court is not closed: it has become a local court, to which two magistrates are assigned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u54	It was closed for a year under this legislature!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u55	I've reopened it, you're not gonna blame me! I come here to talk about the law of 8 April 2021, its application, local justice. I have reopened jurisdictions that have been closed since Mrs. Rachida Dati decided: I felt that we should be closer to our compatriots. Don't make me grieve! Mr Bernalicis, I forgot to answer you about the night hearings, which were mentioned in the gallery and during the strike movement that you know. I asked for expertise from these hearings, because before making decisions, we need to know how the law is applied everywhere in France. In some jurisdictions, night hearings are quite exceptional or even non-existent. In others, especially large courts characterized by the importance of criminal litigation, they are more numerous. I have not put this question aside: I am working on it and will present the results of the expertise. Mister Little, there have been nineteen additional magistrates in Bobigny since 2017, an increase of more than 10%.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u56	It's the same as in 2016, it's the same number!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u57	No: we must add what we have called "fast sugars"! All jurisdictions have been set up!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u58	Fifty-three in 2016, fifty-three in 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u59	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u60	The Act of 8 April 2021 supplemented the powers of the public prosecutor. From now on, he can ask the offender to pay a citizen contribution of up to 3000 euros to victim support associations, which is determined by the prosecutor according to the seriousness of the offences and the situation of the perpetrator. Through a system of conventions, the public prosecutor allows victims' associations under the jurisdiction of the judicial court or the Court of Appeal to receive this new citizen contribution, which is not a criminal fine. I welcome this because victim support associations are doing remarkable work on the ground and they need funding to operate. I would therefore like to ask you about the use and recourse of prosecutors to this new procedure. Is it possible to assess the financial impact of this measure on the cash flow of victim support associations from now on?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u61	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u62	I'm a little late for the ignition this morning, but I hope the national representation will forgive me. Mr Little, the prosecutor's office does not represent all the judges.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u63	No.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u64	This distinction must be made, and I maintain that the Bobigny Court has been given additional judges. Mrs Zitouni, you are asking an important question. As of 1 December 2021, 36.9 per cent of the courts had established the citizen contribution. As at 8 November 2021, 280 citizen contributions had been ordered. For example, a convention was signed between the Dax Public Prosecutor's Office and the Association départementale d'aide aux victimes et de médiation (ADAVEM), affiliated, as you know, to the network France victims, for the implementation of the citizen's contribution on 30 April 2021. Prosecutor's delegates refer the accused person to ADAVEM as part of the alternative measure to prosecution. The association noted strong support from the authors for the interest and relevance of this measure. Less than a year after its entry into force, however, it is too early to assess the added value of this measure in the cash flow of victim support associations entitled to benefit from it. But this new measure – in order to be completely complete – is intended to expand and abound the funding of associations, since the courts were encouraged to establish agreements for this purpose with the associations in their jurisdiction by a dispatch which I signed on 8 June 2021.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u65	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor for a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u66	In order to simplify procedures and reduce the burden on magistrates and officials of the insertion and probation service, but also to allow users of the prison services to have access to work of general interest which has meaning, articles 5 and 6 of the Act of 8 April 2021 amended articles 131-22 and 131-36 of the Penal Code in order to give a new role to the directors of the insertion and probation services for the performance of work of general interest. Welcomed by the integration and probation services, this text is a step forward. On the one hand, it will give the directors of the integration and probation services the opportunity to decide how to perform community service, subject to the right of the sentencing judge to exercise that competence himself. On the other hand, it will make it possible to draw up a list of public works which can be carried out in the department, after consulting the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge responsible for the enforcement of sentences within the jurisdiction of which the reception structure is situated, and after consulting any public body competent for the prevention of crime. In order to implement this new scheme, you have issued the implementing decree of 22 December 2021 which specifies the conditions under which these measures will apply. Could you tell us what the consequences of these new measures and of this new role assigned to the directors of the SPIPs on the integration and probation services are? How will they relate to the competences of the territorial focal point for work of general interest?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u67	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u68	This issue had received the attention of the National Assembly during the debate on the law. The purpose of this amendment is simply to move faster. Indeed, a TIG executed years after being pronounced no longer makes any sense: the victims wonder what is being done, the author himself has been able to change his life, etc. The aim of the text was therefore to reduce the time frame for a prompt and close response, particularly with regard to petty crime. As I said, the TIG's focal points are responsible for the prospecting of new posts and are therefore an essential lever for developing the work of general interest. We will accompany new candidates who propose TIG positions in the preparation of their application dossier, which is a reduction in the administrative procedure – less paperwork, I dare say – before the decision taken by the director of SPIP or of the judicial protection of young people. The directors of the Integration and Probation Services or the Youth Judicial Protection Services will also take care of the assignment decision on a post. They have all the necessary elements on the available posts and on the convicted person to choose the most relevant assignment. As I said, we're not going to make a convicted person who has a job lose his job, we're going to set up the TIG so that she can execute it on the weekend. The judicial authority, for its part, will focus on its task of monitoring the proper implementation of the decision. As you pointed out, it retains assignment competence for certain profiles that would justify it. Finally, in order to be completely complete, I would point out that the implementation of this decree is based on the TIG 360 ° platform, which allows the complete dematerialization of the authorization of the structures, which helps to reduce the time of implementation. It is necessary to make the process smoother and faster.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u69	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u70	The Act of 8 April 2021 improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response aims to increase the effectiveness of criminal responses to the incivilities of everyday life. It is indeed a matter of reinstating the meaning of the sanction, bringing it closer to the infringement both in time and in space. Alternatives to prosecution, reinforced by this law, also help to reduce congestion in the courts by limiting the opening of judicial proceedings. In order to better combat incivilities which qualify as offences, the law has, inter alia, strengthened the criminal composition, by extending the maximum number of hours of unpaid work which can be ordered as an alternative to proceedings of sixty to one hundred hours, but also by extending to TNR the experiment which allows employers in the social and solidarity economy to host TIGs. Whether it is public service work or unpaid work, the possibility of doing it within the social and solidarity economy seems to have very positive effects. By working with a not-for-profit organization on issues directly related to the environment, young people, in particular, find themselves in a positive citizenship. Thus, in the Yvelines, young people doing TIGs at a France Services house acquire very valuable skills, which they can immediately mobilize for the benefit of their loved ones, thus regaining at the heart of their families a consideration that they had often lost. With these very encouraging returns, how can we further promote access to works whose very nature constitutes double reparation, that of the offence or harm suffered by the community on the one hand, and that of the victim on the other hand in his or her self-esteem and in his or her need for recognition on the other?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u71	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u72	In essence, Madame de Vaucouleurs, this question is flattering: you ask me how to ensure the promotion of this text and the related implementing decrees, which means that you think like me that it is a good text. How can I make him known? Indeed, there is knowledge, do it and make it known. I went to your department, where I met elected officials; I went to Mr. Bayrou's town in Pau. We obviously want to go to the private sector and the Chancellery is doing an important communication job. It is ultimately the business of all: elected officials, ministers, magistrates, all those who want to implement this old practice of public service work, which is now the subject of consensus. Parliamentary debates at the time of the creation of the work of general interest show that this provision was then anything but consensual. It is now known that this allows the convicted person to serve his sentence and to reintegrate, and the victim to be answered. All this goes in the right direction and contributes to the effective fight against recidivism. These elements of language, so to speak, can be used to make this measure even more widely known. To take another example, we allowed lawyers to have direct access to the 360° TIG platform, as they sometimes forgot to offer it. They must propose it, that the magistrates choose this sentence as soon as possible – respecting their judicial freedom of course. As I told you, I knew, as a lawyer, the time when when a job of general interest was being done, it was not clear whether it was feasible. Now you just have to click and you know immediately whether it is possible to implement it. There are therefore many ways to make the TIGs known. I leave to your imagination – because imagination is the last refuge of freedom – the task of highlighting this extremely important reform. It naturally concerns low-intensity delinquency. Great delinquency has nothing to do with the work of general interest – it is a certainty for all those who are here.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u73	The debate on monitoring the implementation of the Act of 8 April 2021 improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u74	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u75	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u76	The next item is the debate on France's commitments to the ecological transition and the protection of biodiversity. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: first the speakers of the groups and then the Government, after which we will proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Liliana Tanguy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u77	At the beginning of 2022, I wish you all the best. The political deadlines of the coming months will give us the opportunity to evoke our actions and to affirm our commitments in order to chart the future that we want for all our citizens. One of the great challenges we will face is the environmental emergency, a real battle of the century. Indeed, the past year has been marked by a succession of natural disasters. No territory, including France, was spared. In my constituency, coastal erosion continues, green algae are still present, and the risk of submersion is increasing. All our coastal territories are concerned. The time has come for collective action and responsibility. The international community, the European Union and France have chosen the path of solidarity and cooperation to protect the environment and biodiversity. The European Union has presented a Green Pact for Europe, a veritable ecological roadmap aimed at ensuring a fair and equitable transition to carbon neutrality in 2050. The construction of this new path, which leaves no one behind, is also the priority of France, which is multiplying the actions to achieve this. Thus, the protection of biodiversity and the restoration of degraded ecosystems are at the heart of our environmental commitments. They are one of the priorities of the Green Pact for Europe, which is set out in the European Biodiversity Strategy for 2030. France supports this strategy by developing mechanisms such as the national biodiversity plan, presented in July 2018, which plans to expand terrestrial and marine protected areas. Throughout the past year, Bérangère Abba, Secretary of State for Biodiversity, has conducted territorial and citizen consultations to ensure a coherent revision of its strategy, which is expected to be presented shortly. We, as parliamentarians, have also considered this issue, in the context of the review of various pieces of legislation, including the draft law on combating climate change and strengthening resilience in the face of its effects, defended by Barbara Pompili, Minister of Environmental Transition, whose text I was rapporteur. France's commitments to preserve the environment and ensure the ecological transition are strong, ambitious. Our country is pursuing a proactive policy, anticipating many measures to be taken by the European Union. Thus, with a renovation premium already requested by nearly 700000 households and a massive investment plan for the energy renovation of public buildings, France is fully in line with the wave of energy renovation of buildings initiated by the Union. It also supports the European strategy for marine renewable energies, for example through wind and hydro projects in Brittany. In my constituency, Europe's first wave farm is being created in the Bay of Audierne, one of the most energy-intensive parts of the continent. In the face of the environmental emergency, we parliamentarians, in agreement with the Government, have created effective instruments and deployed unprecedented financial support: 30 billion euros are allocated to the ecological transition within the framework of France Recovery. However, ladies and gentlemen, our commitments are not limited to our borders. Action for climate and biodiversity must be collective, international; Our country is taking its share. France has thus taken on a role as a climate leader, which it intends to strengthen during its Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] All these actions have led the Republic Group in the process of putting this debate on the Assembly's agenda. The Government can count on us to implement its commitments to environmental protection and to encourage our European partners to achieve the objectives set by the European Union. Our group is fully invested in the implementation of the Government's environmental policy, in order to meet the commitments of the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u78	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u79	The latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), by shortening the deadlines resulting from its previous forecasts by 10 years, has changed the picture, particularly with regard to the political approach to ecology. Of course, visionaries and forerunners had awakened consciousness, but it was the IPCC's scientific reports, relayed by youth and a citizen mobilization that I would like to salute, that made a difference. In the face of this urgency, it is no longer the great declarations, the lyrical flights, the dogmas, the symbols that matter, but the rigor, the action plans that, step by step, will make progress towards achieving objectives measured by solid indicators. Our commitments, our objectives must of course be ambitious; But what is crucial today is our ability to measure progress, once again, step by step, to adjust arrangements and decisions, to manage changes and transitions. This is neither the same competence nor the same state of mind. This other approach to political ecology, I call it result ecology. Ladies and gentlemen, we have moved from the stage of awareness, the age of dogmatism and incantation, to that of pragmatism, the result that we measure. It's less media, but more effective. During this quinquennium, we will have laid the foundations for this ecology of result. First of all, the Government had the courage to say "stop" to the search for and exploitation of hydrocarbons on our soil, to macroprojects such as the Notre-Dame-des-Landes airport, the Montagne d'or mine or the EuropaCity shopping and leisure megacentre, to the production of electricity from coal – France is the first G7 country to foresee the closure of coal-fired power plants – and to any commercial agreement with a country that does not respect the Paris agreement. Then he was able to move forward with our majority, with all the parliamentarians associated with it, and make proactive choices associated with quantified, measured, achievable goals. In budgetary terms, we can mention the 30 billion spent on green growth through the recovery plan, or the continuous increase in appropriations since 2017; on the bottom, the goals of carbon neutrality in 2050, the end of the sale of thermal vehicles in 2040, new low-emission mobility zones (ZFE-m) by 2025, new plans for housing renovation, the preservation of biodiversity – 30% of our land space is classified, and soon 30% of our maritime space. Jimmy Pahun is also mad at me not to reaffirm the importance of biodiversity in the oceans and, therefore, the importance of the ongoing international negotiations, especially since the World Ocean Summit will be held in Brest in February. In addition, the Act of 10 February 2020 on combating waste and the circular economy, and the Climate and Resilience Act of 2021, set concrete, measurable, achievable and realistic targets. France has also been able to play its full role in terms of influence. Ursula von der Leyen, who is now in our walls, has stated in public that our country is exercising leadership in this area. I am sure that each of the group chairmen will be able to question him about this and confirm this crucial role. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, our majority and our Government, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, have laid the foundations for the ecology of results. I will take a very concrete example: the production of renewable energies. The objectives are now set at national level through multi-annual energy programming, at regional level through the Regional Planning, Sustainable Development and Equality of Territories (SRADDET). However, it would have been aberrant to hope to achieve them when there was no correlation between the national objective and the sum of the regions' objectives! However, the "climate and resilience" law has formalized the setting of the objective of each region according to its potential, after consultation of course; it has defined a common methodology and indicators, set up with the president of the Regional Council and the Regional Prefect a Regional Energy Committee, in short organised and streamlined this pyramid of objectives in order to enable us to achieve them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Many of us, in their parliamentary work, have already adopted this logic of outcome: I am thinking of the amendment that I supported in the review of the future climate and resilience law, which was intended to require communities to measure the proportion of their responsible purchases, rather than sticking to statements. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, during this term of office, we have laid the foundations for the ecology of results. This demanding, sometimes complex, new approach will ensure that our decisions and public policies are more effective; It alone will lead us measurably towards ambitious objectives, will emerge from the vain, dogmatic discourses which the political ecology suffers so much. The result ecology will thus be a major issue in the next mandate, but also a political signature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u80	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u81	My speech will focus on an issue that is dear to me, as well as on the Secretary of State: the preservation and restoration of biodiversity. I will not recall what we all know, unless we live at the bottom of a hole: we are witnessing a historical decline in nature, a sixth mass extinction of species under the pressure of human activity. However, nature is not only a treasure to be saved, but an ally with which to cooperate. If there is a message of optimism that I want to share with you, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the year, it is this one. Nature has proven to be incredibly resilient and generous in solutions for our climate, our habitat, our food, our health. This generosity, in turn, requires us to show responsibility for it and, once again, invites us to cooperate. Since the beginning of this quinquennium, France has made itself the ally of biodiversity. Let us consider the progress made in the year 2021 alone, which was a great year in this field. In 2021, we launched the development of the third national biodiversity strategy, which will set the course for the conservation of ecosystems and species for the period 2021-2030. We have created a general crime of pollution and an offence of endangering the environment, giving it real rights. We have set a national strategy to ensure that, by 2022, 30% of the national territory and French maritime areas are protected, including a third under strong protection. We have reinforced the objectives of the National Strategy to Combat Imported Deforestation (SNDI), which is one of the priorities of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We have banned the artificialization of the soil for the construction of commercial surfaces and set in law the objective of zero net artificialization in 2050. We have created two new national parks, the most beautiful being of course that of the Bay of Somme, in my region of Hauts-de-France. We have banned the possession of wild animals in circuses and strengthened sanctions for the abuse of domestic animals. Finally, in 2021, France hosted the World Congress of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in Marseille, where strong commitments were made, particularly with regard to the protection of waters in the Mediterranean. Madam Secretary of State, the least we can say is that in terms of biodiversity, our majority does not have to be ashamed of its record. However, much fighting remains to be waged, particularly at the European and international levels. I will mention two of them, on which I would like you to inform us about the Government's objectives in 2022. The first, European, is sustainable finance. With the Green Pact for Europe and the Fit for 55 legislative package – adjustment to Objective 55 – the European Union has set itself a formidable ambition and historic means to make Europe an exemplary continent, the first to achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. With the green taxonomy, the revision of the Extra-Finance Reporting Directive (NFRD) or the proposed carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders that France will support, we are moving towards greener finance and taxation, which are themselves necessary for the financing and investment needs of the ecological transition. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these initiatives may be too focused on decarbonizing and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, to the detriment of biodiversity. As with CO, we have indicators to accurately measure the pressure on CO from human activities or the biodiversity footprint of companies: it is important that they are taken into account in the same way as carbon indicators, in particular in market rules and indices. Can you reassure us about this, Madam Secretary of State, and confirm that France will ensure that biodiversity is not forgotten in this important area? The second global battle is environmental health. You know better than anyone, Madam Secretary of State: the terrible pandemic that strikes us does not come from a Chinese laboratory but from an infectious agent transmitted by animals. This zoonosis reminds us of the urgency of thinking and addressing health and biodiversity issues within the "One Health" approach. This is advocated, inter alia, by the report of the Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) published in October 2020: reducing human activities resulting in loss of biodiversity, better conserving protected areas, restricting unsustainable exploitation in areas rich in biodiversity, would significantly reduce the risk of pandemics by reducing wildlife contact with livestock or human beings, and by helping to prevent the spread of new diseases. Could you, Madam Secretary of State, tell us where France is on its own territory and what initiatives it will support on the international stage – because this problem can only be solved by a global coalition, as well as most of those related to biodiversity, on which you can count, in 2022, on the support of the group Action together?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u82	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u83	As the quinquennium comes to an end, this debate on the ecological transition and the protection of biodiversity gives us the opportunity to take stock of government action in this area, taking into account both the promises of 2017 and the challenges ahead. In his programme for the 2017 presidential election, candidate Emmanuel Macron noted: "2016 was the warmest year ever recorded. It is not only about safeguarding resources and species but also about responding to public health problems. He went on to mention air pollution, among other things. The announcement was made: "we do not need small measures but big changes", in terms of production, transport and food. While the IDU and independent group shares this view, we do not agree on the means to allow this transition. I doubt the effectiveness of government action and that of the parliamentary majority in organising the ecological transition, particularly with regard to environmental taxation in the service of the energy transition: the polluter-pays principle should apply to all! Similarly, our group has always supported the fight against waste through practical and applicable solutions, such as setting up the set-up. Solutions for a transition by all and for all exist; They need to be better implemented. I think we are all aware of this: the development of soft mobility, the development of the hydrogen train and the development of the aircraft operating with biofuel or electric energy are examples on which to rely in order to intelligently meet the need to move, in view of climate issues. I recognize that this mandate could be equated with the health crisis that we continue to face and that it upsets our daily lives. On the other hand, under the guise of this crisis, we must not turn a blind eye to the climate crisis that we are also facing. What about the release of fossil fuels? Where are the 32% renewable energy announced? Has environmental health improved? What about international awareness? These are the four questions, among others, that our fellow citizens are asking themselves. Now, with a COP26 – conference of the parties – dusty, management of the national energy park as a sea snake, difficult transitions on the ground, or a complex organisation between public and private actors, can we say that we are today, in 2022, in the best arrangements to deal with the climate crisis? I don't think so. That is why, at the beginning of the year, we can only encourage our country's leaders to use the French presidency of the European Union as an opportunity to bring about a genuine transition at European level. The French State was already sentenced in October 2021 by the Paris Administrative Court for failing to meet its climate commitments for the period 2015-2018. The sixth IPCC publication states that by 2050, France and the world must have decarbonized their economies. It is humbly, but firmly, that the IDU and independent group wants concrete measures to be implemented to achieve the objectives set. The executive has taken steps on nuclear issues, and the France Recovery Plan devotes funding for the ecological transition. The crisis must not, however, be the subject of grandiose communication but rather of actions necessary for our survival. The stakes are high, but our responsibility is also high.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u84	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u85	A month ago almost to day, the majority and the group The Republicans refused to accept the European motion for a resolution on the financing of the ecological transition that our group was defending. We asked the French Government to work, on the occasion of the Presidency of the European Union, for a very pragmatic reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, which consists of subtracting from the deficit calculation investment expenditure in the ecological transition. We believe that today's budgets are far too constrained to enable France and Europe to fulfil their environmental commitments and that they are constrained by a European framework that is inadequate to meet current challenges. The achievement of carbon neutrality by 2050 requires the mobilization of much more financial resources than those currently on the table. The development of rail and river transport infrastructure, the acceleration of the energy renewal of the public and private housing stock, the measures to support the transformation of our agricultural model, the investment in future energy technologies, the adaptation of our territories to climate change and the protection of biodiversity require considerable resources. All of this can be achieved, beyond political intentions, only with the financial means that we call for and which – as you know, Madam Secretary of State – amount to several tens of billions more each year. In France, budget after budget and despite the recovery plan, we remain below needs. The High Climate Council (HCC) reiterated this last December: France is lagging behind on its emission reduction path and in particular on the already obsolete target of a 40% reduction of emissions by 2030. The endless accumulation of disparate measures, which has been the essence of the Government's policy for the past five years, is limited here, Madam Secretary of State. In total, the declination of your commitments is also in default, including at the local level. Your action and inaction, at the heart of the territories, contradict your speeches. In the only metropolis of Rouen, which I know relatively well, this is what the result ecology defended earlier by our colleague Waserman: a major industrial fire, that of Lubrizol, which you did not want to draw all the consequences by strengthening, in a way that would have been unprecedented, the monitoring and control of installations classified at risk for the health of populations and the preservation of the environment and biodiversity. Let us also mention Chapelle-Darblay, a unique company for the circular economy in the paper-carton industry, which you let disappear without succeeding in imposing a state strategy against private groups, thus drawing a line on the employment and the proper use of resources to be recycled. Finally, there is a cost-effective motorway bypass project for users, which will artificialize more than 500 hectares of soil and produce more than 50000 tonnes of CO per year. This project will degrade the sanitary environment of the residents and remove agricultural land without any alternative rail transport. That is our feeling, Madam Secretary of State, expressed abruptly, on the assessment of your policy from global to local. Whatever scale you deploy it to, liberalism can only have shameful ecology, as it has shameful employment and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u86	Liberalism is the defense of freedoms!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u87	Mr Loïc Dombreval has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u88	Today we are called upon to discuss France's commitments for the ecological transition and the protection of biodiversity. As a Member of Parliament for the Alpes-Maritimes, a department known worldwide for its biodiversity wealth, I am pleased to address you today. Since 2017, the majority in this House have led many struggles to move forward on key issues: the law putting an end to the research and exploitation of hydrocarbons in 2017, the law for the balance of commercial relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all (EGALIM) in 2018, the law on energy and climate in 2019, the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy in 2020 and, most recently, the law on climate and resilience have enabled us to commit France to a more sustainable future. We have made this mandate the one that has done the most for the ecological transition, the protection of biodiversity and the protection of animal life. The ecological transition must take place with all our citizens, regardless of their age and place, level or way of life. Every citizen is part of this transition, which must always be carried out in accordance with our economic, social and solidarity ambitions. The ecological transition we want is perfectly compatible with growth and progress. We are moving forward in this direction when we create the French Biodiversity Office (OFB) to strengthen the means and policies for the protection of habitats and wildlife, when we put an end to the projects of Notre-Dame-des-Landes, Montagne d'Or and EuropaCity, when we vote for a two-way reduction in the rate of artificialisation of soils throughout our territory; When we create a general crime of pollution and an offence of endangering the environment, we always act effectively for our future. We are moving forward in this direction when we accelerate the release of fossil fuels, with the closure of three coal-fired power plants and the programming of the end of the production of fossil-fuelled carbon vehicles in 2040. We set up the Green Budget, set up the High Climate Council and launched the unprecedented experience of the Citizen Climate Convention (CCC). More than one third of the recovery plan, or EUR 30 billion, has been spent on green measures. We have enabled hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens to receive aid for the renovation of their homes, such as MaPrimeRénov', vehicle conversion premiums and bonuses for the purchase of electric vehicles. At the same time, we are following our national biodiversity plan, published in July 2018, in which France openly announced that it was making biodiversity an environmental priority of its diplomatic network. As a reminder, this plan supports several main objectives, such as the protection of 30% of land and marine areas, of which 10% are under strict protection, or the strengthening, at European and international level, of the fight against trafficking in species, which can cause major health tragedies. Indeed, the preservation of our biodiversity depends on the balance of our ecosystems, which provide the basic services essential to our life on Earth. They also play a regulatory role in dealing with natural disasters, epidemics and climate change. [[Mrs Valérie Petit applause]] In this regard, I would like to thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your commitment to the protection of our wildlife during the debate on the 2022 Finance Bill. Indeed, our wildlife care centres carry out every day a real public service mission, a health watch mission, protecting our fellow citizens from potential zoonoses. I therefore thank you for your commitment to define a more sustainable funding model for them. At the international level, let us remember that France hosted the World Congress of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in Marseille from 3 to 11 September, and that it continues to raise biodiversity to a very high level, notably through the regular organization of One Planet summits. We have already made a great deal of progress, but, as you know, Madam Secretary of State, we need to do even more, given the major risks facing our planet. We are surrounded by our partners and friends, the Member States of the European Union, and it is with them that we can move forward most effectively. France and Europe must be at the forefront of these crucial issues of the 21st century, and we have a duty of exemplaryness vis-à-vis the rest of the world. We can be the continent of green innovation, the continent of a successful social, solidarity, economic and ecological transition. We have every means to do so, especially through the ambitious European Green Deal that is being set up. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. Mrs. Valérie Petit also applauds]] As the French Presidency of the European Union has just begun, how can France win the accession of the other Member States, Madam Secretary of State, to make sustainable development and the protection of biodiversity the Union's priorities?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u89	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this invitation to debate the ecological and environmental transition, in a context that we thought we did not have to know and which, through the tragedies that we are going through, invites us to rethink the balance between human activity and the environment, and to find a space for progress in our activities, a change in lifestyles, ways of producing, and ways of consuming that preserve these environmental issues on which we are all too aware at this time, our quality of life, our health, our sovereignty and the availability of the resources that make our daily lives. This awareness must enable us today to go beyond what we have known for too long, a certain form of denial, of difficulty in coping with the violence of the impacts of our activities on the environment. Today we have the means for real change, for much needed changes, which are not easy, which require consultation, dialogue, in order to find together all the opportunities that lie in these changes. A first coherence is to be found in our public action, between our different policies. We see today that the issue is systemic. First of all, we had to learn more and more about our thinking, our policies, in order to find this coherence between the issues of health, education, energy issues, the preservation of biodiversity and the resources essential to the daily lives of the French. These questions have invited us to rethink the energy transition in its solidarity and socially equitable dimension, that is, taking into account the acceptability and accessibility of these solutions for all French people and, more broadly, from one end of the world, since actions, acts, practices, here in France or at the other end of the world, have global effects on the environmental situation. We were able to make difficult decisions, which many others had preferred to leave to their successors to take care of. Decisions such as those relating to Notre-Dame-des-Landes, EuropaCity or Montagne d'Or are emblematic of the fact that transitions to work force us to find these balances between human, economic, social and environmental impacts. We have had to find exceptional ways to deal with the challenges we face. In the context of this health, economic and social crisis, we have chosen to direct most of the resources of the France Recovery Plan towards the environmental transition. It is 30 billion, or one third of the credits in the recovery plan, that have been entirely dedicated to energy issues, mobility issues and the investments needed for this transition. The France 2030 investment plan takes over the structural investments needed to ensure this sustainability and to review our development and growth model, in emblematic sectors, such as energy. Thus, €8 billion of the investment plan's credits are directly dedicated to green hydrogen to decarbonize our industry. With regard to transport of the future, financial resources are not sufficient to implement this transition. We have been able to make extremely strong arbitrations, if only in my ministerial field. We were able to announce, with the support of Parliament, during this year's budgetary debate, the cessation of any reduction in staff in these operators. We know that these sectors are of the utmost priority in preparing for the future. You mentioned ambitious laws on energy, mobility, circular economy, climate. The mobility guidance law, passed in 2019, allowed us to change our outlook on transport. We need to change certain practices: there are no small gestures, and every change can contribute to the transition, if we adopt all these new solutions. The "climate and resilience" law has taught us how to change the way we live, consume, heat and feed. All of this feeds into public debate, which has become increasingly important in recent years and in which we need to find concrete answers. We need to work on urban planning and the artificialisation of soils, which we know today to be an important issue. We need to develop the reduction of packaging and, more broadly, the circular economy, in the idea that our resources are limited and that our sovereignty must be based on a more reasoned and soberer management. The "day of overtaking" must alert us to the forward flight that has been ours in this finite world. On the stakes that are the object of tension, we must rely on scientific lighting, and a form of reasoned, soothing pragmatism, to chart our way and prevent certain subjects, extremely sensitive, from immobilizing us in extreme positions. You have also raised ethical issues, which have been widely discussed this year in the discussions on animal welfare and the fight against abuse. In order to make political decisions and find ways to support all French people in these changes, we must find meaning and, precisely, this ethical dimension. The question of water sharing is at the heart of the tensions that I raised. They are now calming down as we consider this resource no longer based on needs but on available resources. Through the decree made this summer or the Varenne de l'eau et de l'adaptation à changement climatique that I am currently carrying out with the Minister of Agriculture Julien Denormandie, we are reconstructing these balances step by step, and it seems to me that French society is being appeased. Among the iconic topics are also the Forest and Wood Assizes. We all suffered from seeing the French forest suffering from water stress and other health problems, especially since, behind the preservation of this forest, which is so close to our heart, is that of a whole sector, an industry and the local economy of the forest communes, to which we must also add the prospects opened by the REE2020, the new environmental regulation applicable to new constructions, in terms of the mobilization of the wood resource. As far as sovereignty issues are concerned, we must, in order to defend the French economy, rebuild the global balance with what is being played out on the other side of the world. This dynamic of change that revolves around climate and biodiversity and, as you have all widely stressed, it is important to succeed in symbiosis between these different issues. Combating the erosion of biodiversity is also a solution to the issue of climate change. Conversely, climate change is a major contributor to biodiversity erosion. This awareness has finally taken place at the international level. COP26 has focused on biodiversity issues, and it is now known in all international fora that these issues are linked. I call for ever more open-mindedness between these subjects. We work on the energy mix, extremely structuring for our daily lives and essential for our quality of life, our sovereignty and the sustainability of our economic model. In this case, we cannot allow ourselves to be trapped in dogmas and resistance to change, and we must strike the right balance between what we believe is desirable and sustainable, while guiding the reflection of the French on the issues of security of supply, safety and relevance of the different economic models covered by this energy mix. The topicality of the public debate is very rich on these issues, with, first and foremost, the declination, in the coming months and years, of the multiannual energy programming and the French strategy on energy and climate, which will again be examined by Parliament in 2023. This energy framework again raises the question of sobriety. We cannot continue the flight forward towards ever more energy production and spending, without strengthening the means we devote to reducing our energy consumption. As such, we are working very extensively on the energy renovation of buildings. The success of MaPrimeRénov' attests that the French want to participate in this effort. We must give all of us the means to do so. As France takes over the presidency of the Council of the European Union, we will promote this coherence between what we defend at national level and what we defend at Community and international level. In recent years, France's leadership on the international scene has focused on environmental issues, which may sometimes seem quite remote from the daily lives of the French, but which are part of this coherence. Our legitimacy at the international level is due to what we have defended and that we will continue to defend at the local level, always with the aim of maintaining coherence and continuity between the different frameworks in which we operate, whether regulatory or legislative, that may be different in other countries. Let us not forget: biodiversity and environmental issues, climate issues do not stop at administrative borders. The Green Pact for Europe and the fit for 55 package will provide us with a Community framework which is all the more essential given that the European scale is best suited to certain challenges of the transition: the carbon market, imported deforestation, transport, the carbon tax at borders, energy efficiency and the restoration of ecosystems are taking place at European level. I thank you for participating as parliamentarians in this environmental diplomacy, where climate and biodiversity issues meet, as evidenced by the One Planet Summit, which was held in France in January 2021 and was entirely dedicated to biodiversity, IUCN and the protected areas strategy, COP15 and the national strategy to combat imported deforestation. Today we share this view and the view that it is legitimate and imperative to give us the means. We share, I believe, this vision of a model of sobriety, of solidarity, of sovereignty, anchored in reality and in reality, from our territories in which the French act on a daily basis and where we work with the different levels of communities, to the international stage, to the daily life of the French. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Valérie Petit also applauds]] I should like to wish you and us all the best to be able to decline, in trajectories, objectives and milestones, this model of planning, which must compare our actions and the strategies deployed with concrete means.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u91	We are addressing the second part of this debate. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the duration of questions such as that of the answers given by the Secretary of State is limited to two minutes and that there is no right of reply. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u92	Minister, you have devoted a significant part of your remarks to energy issues. As we are at the heart of the winter, to date seventeen of our fifty-six nuclear reactors are stationary, i.e. 40 gigawatts available on a capacity of 62. In this way, we have to ask more strongly for the two coal-fired power stations at Saint-Avold and Cordebut still in operation before their announced closure: a decree is pending publication for this purpose. It is necessary, but it is insufficient, as our country has lost 10 gigawatts in ten years. Last winter we had to import 13 gigawatts from Germany and Belgium. Renewable energies, intermittent, are insufficient as they stand. We will also ask you about the need for projects to convert coal-fired power plants into biomass plants. In Gardanne, the commissioning is already ready, but it is currently blocked by a social conflict, of which you may have to help with the resolution. In addition, the Cordemais project will be the subject of a meeting on 14 January and a similar prospect of conversion exists for Saint-Avold, all thanks in particular to the proposals of the trade union organisations. Do you intend to assist in the conversion of coal-fired power plants to biomass plants?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u93	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u94	There is no question of requiring the transformation of energy-related equipment and industrial fabric without accompanying this transition. It is both a social, human and economic issue. We, of course, need this fabric to achieve the balance of our energy mix and ensure our sovereignty in this area, as well as to guarantee our ability to fill consumption peaks with our various equipment. We are conducting this reflection according to the contexts and the technical implications of these conversions. The biomass hypothesis is an example of this, with the necessary reservations as to the biases that can be induced by the use of this type of energy in terms of dimensioning. I know that work is under way in your territory, Mr President, to accompany his teams and his industrial fabric in its conversion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u95	Mrs Valérie Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u96	Nine out of ten French people now live in or near the city. For several years now, they have expressed a strong expectation that nature will return to our cities. Bringing nature back to the city is not just about adding a small flower on the city's entrance sign, but, as I have often reminded you, about joining forces with it because it provides solutions for those living in urban centres: I am thinking of the fight against climate change, particularly the islands of heat, but also of the preservation of the water resource or the renaturalisation of the soil. Nature is also a source of food solutions – for example, urban farmers, to whom we must support – or for energy production – the topic of biomass has been mentioned. It is, in the end, a source of better living in the city, as long as fauna and flora are given their full place in the planning projects. My question is therefore very simple: the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning has given my colleague Sophie Métadier and myself the honour of entrusting us with a mission on nature in the city, which proves that Parliament is mobilised on this issue of everyday life. I would therefore like to know the Government's road map in this area. The subject is complicated: you called earlier for décompartement, but the promotion of nature in the city typically involves cooperation between the actors of the city, biodiversity and cohesion of the territories. I would also like to know how you intend to mobilize these actors, who come from different backgrounds, to advance and respond to the strong demand of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u97	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u98	First of all, I would like to thank you for engaging with us in the reflection on nature in the city and on the solutions to be deployed and intensified to restore these amenities to the urban fabric; It is one of the challenges of the resilience of our territories. Unfortunately, the various confinements that took place last year have shown the urgency, for the quality of life, to recreate these spaces of islets of freshness and to develop solutions that, for the moment, remain very technical but nevertheless largely participate in the well-being of the French on a daily basis and in a more reasoned management of resources – I am thinking in particular of the water resource, the management of storm water involving, in the specifically urban fabric, important levers. These questions are therefore far from anecdotal. Important improvements can be made in terms of urban planning, both in terms of soil dewatering and in water management and in the creation of islets of freshness. In this context, your mission will usefully inform our thinking. Building on your work, the National Biodiversity Strategy (NBS) will devote a specific component to nature in the city. On 1 February, we will also have an opportunity to discuss it at Community level, within the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, at an event dedicated to this subject.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u99	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u100	Wind energy is one of the most controversial issues in our country's environmental policy. An FIFG windsurvey conducted in 2020 indicates that seven out of ten mast installations are subject to appeal to the administrative courts. In 2019, a survey of the same institute revealed that 80% of French people perceive the installation of wind turbines as the result of unilateral and uncoordinated decisions with the population. This survey specified the large standard deviation between the very good and the very poor images that this mode of energy production generates, implying that the depreciation of wind energy increases as the respondents are informed about the subject. How can they be wronged? Wind energy is useful in countries that produce low-carbon electricity to replace coal or fuel plants. This is not the case in France, where 92% of electricity is already decarbonised. Wind energy is expensive, produces intermittent energy and is difficult to recycle. Its deployment is also deeply unequal: the Hauts-de-France, Grand Est and Occitanie regions account for 65% of France's 8,000 wind turbines. In the face of this avalanche of facts, the administrative judge no longer hesitates to suspend the plans to install wind turbines which are the subject of disputes, as evidenced by the decision of the Administrative Court of Amiens concerning the commune of Airaines in the Somme. To this opposition of the majority of the French against numerous wind projects, confirmed by the administrative courts, is added the lack of consultation. Specifically, in my territory, in the commune of Cartigny, on the occasion of a referendum organised by the town hall at the request of the prefect, 94% of the population opposed the construction of a wind farm. Admittedly, the ecological transition is necessary. France and the world must decarbonize their economies by 2050. France's electricity is already 92% decarbonised thanks to nuclear power and hydraulics, and France plans to increase the share of nuclear power from 70% to 50% by replacing it with wind turbines. On 31 December 2021, the European Commission unveiled a green labelling project for nuclear and gas power plants. These nuclear power plants will be recognized as participating in the reduction of greenhouse gases and as major players in the ecological transition. So my question is simple: will you continue the deployment of the additional 7,000 wind masts by 2030, while all the scientific, legal and political reasoning is against you?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u101	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u102	Beyond territories, landscapes and biodiversity impacts, we are all aware of the need to meet both our energy needs and environmental and climate requirements by developing an energy mix that is as decarbonized as possible. We must also respond to a growing need for electricity. With these stakes – and even these new stakes, since some trajectories were not those we could imagine a few years ago – we had to actually reconsider our energy mix. In doing so, we rely on the different scenarios presented a few months ago by the Electricity Transmission Network (TEN) and on clear alerts. We can no longer satisfy ourselves with dogmatic positions and we must consider the whole mix by first adopting a certain energy sobriety – the best energy is that we do not consume – and then respecting a balance between renewable energies and an aging French nuclear park, which nevertheless offers interesting technological prospects and has the advantage of decarbonation. On the basis of these three pillars, we must find answers to our needs, while guaranteeing our sovereignty, since we cannot be too dependent on the outside. Renewable energy is, of course, an essential pillar; We are now happy to be able to use wind, where many power plants are at a standstill. Again, we must find a form of balance. This explains the announcement by the President of the Republic, in view of the scenarios proposed by TEN, concerning a new wave of nuclear projects; This is also what should encourage us to deploy massively renewable energies, which have all the advantages we know, although we do understand the few resistances that have been generated in the territories because of mitage phenomena. I was elected local before I was a member of the Government and I did not disapprove of the difficulties that had arisen in the Great East in particular; But I also know that some projects, when they are sufficiently concerted, are able to meet the expectations of citizens, who are delighted to participate in the energy transition. We therefore have a balance to find, within a framework that has been redefined by the Minister of Environmental Transition, to calm these debates and allow mayors to be fully involved in decision-making on these projects.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u103	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. You have slightly exceeded your speaking time, but we will not hold on to it as long as it is the first time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u104	But it was important!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u105	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u106	Since 2010, La Réunion has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site, one of the thirty-four hotspots of terrestrial, marine and aquatic biodiversity. It has nearly 230 endemic plant species, about 20 species of birds and an interesting island fauna. It also houses thirty fish of fauna and flora that already existed at the time of the arrival of men. It has 130 different natural environments, ranging from tropical forest to arid volcanic and lunar plateau. Various players in La Réunion are committed to sustainable development and biodiversity and are working to protect it, conserve it and enhance nature, which is a particularly important issue on the island. However, behind this idyllic painting is hidden the opposite of the decor: the difficulties to combine, on the one hand, the protection of nature and, on the other, the management of invasive plants, dangerous waste, wandering animals that kill endemic species, soil pollution, etc. Faced with the unresolved problem of hazardous waste in Réunion, such as batteries, what solutions do you propose, Madam Secretary of State? Nor should we forget that Réunion and overseas in general suffer from a strong energy dependence. Yet these territories have the resources of the wind, the sun and the seabed. A strong renewable energy potential can therefore be mobilised whether it is photovoltaic, wind, geothermal, biomass or marine energy. Ultramarine territories have the capabilities and assets to evolve and promote the ecological transition. If renewable energy were to be exploited to the maximum in each of our islands, we could achieve energy autonomy. Madam Secretary of State, the development of the ecological transition has been significantly slowed down during this parliamentary term. What do you intend to do to promote "100% clean energy" in the overseas?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u107	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u108	I thank you for this moment of lucid exchange on the treasures and riches of La Réunion, but also on the particularly sharp and difficult challenges that it faces, because of its insularity and the specific energy challenges that this implies. You mentioned extremely dense biodiversity, which is home to alien species that are sometimes invasive, which is not without painful consequences – I think, for example, sharks. These difficulties lead us to have to rebuild these balances and ease these tensions. On the energy front, at the beginning of 2022 there will be a revision of the multi-annual energy programming for La Réunion, which will have to take account of these contexts and difficulties, and will allow us to work together on a new path for the energy mix and the renewable energy objectives of the island. The national biodiversity strategy, which you know I am in the process of finalizing the project for the next ten years, will include a dedicated component. I wanted to host a biodiversity conference overseas, to which you will be invited in the next few days and whose date I no longer have in mind. I initially wanted to organize this conference from La Réunion, but the health context forces me to wait to know whether I can go there personally or whether I will organize it in the form of a video conference on these specific issues with all the overseas countries. Your question also allows me to greet very active and committed actors on these issues. I had the great honour and the pleasure of appointing Mrs. Virginie Boucaud, President of Globice, to the Order of the Legion of Honour, who has been doing a great job on cetaceans for a long time. It seemed to me quite legitimate to appoint her to this high distinction to recognize her work and her commitment to cetaceans in La Réunion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u109	Mr Sylvain Templier, who will ask the last two questions, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u110	This first question is that of my colleague Marjolaine Meynier-Millefert, who unfortunately could not be present today. Madam Secretary of State, since we arrived in 2017, we have, on numerous occasions, worked to lift the brakes and accelerate the energy renewal of our country's built-up park. This issue has become an inescapable issue in a few years, which must enable us to respond to the ecological crisis, but also to help our citizens to live in better conditions and to pay lower energy bills. This development, which is too slow for some, is too fast for others, and now allows us to have ambitious and effective standards. Many construction sites were to be started: technical support, financial support, massification, step-by-step renovation and overall renovation. We have provided answers to each of these questions, always bearing in mind our objective of a park that would be on average at BBC level – a low-consumption building – by 2050. The Government and Parliament, therefore, together, established MaprimeRénov', made ANAH, the National Housing Agency, the head of the household renovation orchestra, an ambitious tertiary decree for this sector and aimed at a strong goal for public buildings, particularly as part of the recovery plan. These measures are still in the process of being implemented. This is the case, in particular, of My Renov' Assistant, which is currently being launched. The aim of this new tool is to help households from start to finish the renovation process by providing them with neutral and reliable support. If much has been done in this area and the renovation machine is launched, there is still an important question point: do we have sufficient manpower to carry out all these projects? Do we have enough training places to help the younger generation turn to a job in the building and engage in the ecological and energy transition? Are we putting enough resources in the training of professionals to help them adapt to a stronger and sometimes different demand? Shouldn't we help the professionals in the sector get in order and push them to work less in silo so that the overall energy renovation becomes an automation?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u111	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u112	Mr President, it is an essential issue that energy renewal and, even more so, that of labour and skills, in this very dynamic sector, which represents a market of more than 30 billion euros, 211000 jobs in 2019 and more than 64,000 active companies, including more than 59,000 RGE labeled – recognised as environmental guarantor. Yet it is a sector in tension, and in positive tension, if I may say so, since 60% of recruitments are difficult, while recruitment intentions are still up 20% in 2021 compared to 2019. We therefore see expectations and needs, and we absolutely need to meet them. To this end, the Government, together with companies and industry, is looking for mechanisms and increasing the possibilities of strengthening these skills with, on the qualification side, the sign of RGE quality, which has been renovated with a new nomenclature, a revision of the skills standards and various controls. We also have the FEEBAT programme – training on energy savings in building – which, with 30 million euros since 2017, accompanies the increase in skills of professionals, with a knowledge base in energy renovation, a review of training standards and training on global renovation, which is essential today because of its very positive impact. This FEEBAT action will continue until mid-2022 with a FEEBAT 2 programme, which will be strengthened as we will spend 40 million euros on it. The artisans are obviously accompanied to better mobilise public aid and aid under the EECs, or energy saving certificates, with the OSCAR programme – Optimisation and simplification of the EECs for the artisans of the renovation – created in 2021, which will train 6000 referents and interlocutors of the artisans. This training is also supported by the France Recovery Plan, with new training, and also assisted by the PIA4, the fourth investment programme for the future. It is therefore EUR 5 million that will be allocated to a communication campaign on these professions. It is true that the amplification of the overall renovation requires that the dynamics take place. We need time to set up this new dynamic, with in particular, on the side of the supply of works, the emergence of assemblers who must coordinate these trades and, on the side of demand, a support of the households for its renovations. That's what we're doing with my Renov' Accompanier.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u113	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u114	Madam Secretary of State, I have the honour to ask you two questions this morning. 2022 must be a significant year for biodiversity. Internationally, major meetings will take place. I am thinking in particular of COP15 in China, which is repeatedly postponed due to the health context, and which will be an opportunity to seal new global targets, such as the protection of at least 30% of land and marine surfaces, of which 10% are in strong protection. I am also thinking of the One Ocean Summit, which will take place in the Finistère and will aim, among other things, to enrich our knowledge of the seas and oceans, and to clarify our commitments. At European level, last June the European Parliament adopted the 2030 Biodiversity Strategy. Again, 2022 will be a pivotal year. In particular, it is planned to include in the European agenda the issue of reducing the use of plant protection products. Finally, at the national level, 2022 will mark the launch of the new national biodiversity strategy. The previous one had been judged rather harshly by OFB, the French Biodiversity Office, and by the EESC, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council, which indicated that the objectives studied were not generally being achieved by 2020. The majority and the Government have acted for biodiversity – here is the national strategy to combat imported deforestation, a strong symbol that you have widely worn, Madam Secretary of State. Nevertheless, the assessments show us that we need to go even further. A first draft of the new version of this SNB was presented to us in September, in Marseille, at the World Conservation Congress, which I had the honour to attend. Its publication is imminent and that is why I would like to ask you about it. In 2012, the European Commission stressed that biodiversity is our life insurance on this planet. The national biodiversity strategy will have ambitious objectives and means. Can it involve a degree of legal constraint and territorialisation so as not to depart from the objectives it will set? In order to be fully efficient, I would like to know what human and financial resources the Government intends to deploy and how it envisages the evaluation and monitoring of this ambitious strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u115	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u116	Thank you, Mr President, for this question, which has been put in the form of both an assessment and an outlook. We are indeed at a rather exceptional time, when we are re-designing, for the next ten years, the framework of the national strategy for biodiversity and, at the same time, find unprecedented means, linked in a structural way both to the dedicated budget of the State and its operators, and included in the framework of France Recovery and the investment plan to accompany much more effective and structuring changes. We also have very proactive action, particularly in the area of employment, since financial resources are not enough and it takes agents to implement them on a daily basis, to be as close as possible to the realities of the territories and to be able to accompany all the actors involved in these changes. This is what we do with the regions, the different communities and all the actors involved. This work at national level must lead us to redraw this roadmap and, above all, to look at means because, as you have said, the results of previous strategies are not good, the erosion of biodiversity is continuing at an unprecedented rate and we must therefore be very proactive. This is what the President of the Republic heard, first of all, in 2021, by fully dedicating a One Planet Summit to biodiversity, and, now, by accompanying these awareness of the urgency of climate and biodiversity by a One Ocean Summit which, as you said, will take place in a few weeks' time in Brest. The international and Community calendar is appropriate, as France will advocate and defend these issues in the framework of the French presidency of the European Union, but also at international level, with COP15 biodiversity, which will take place in a few months' time. We therefore have this national and international calendar, unprecedented means and, I believe, an awareness which, despite the largely disrupted economic, health and economic context we know, can enable us to mobilize this mobilization in a common awareness of the impacts and challenges of the disruption of the relationship between human activities and nature. Let us seize this opportunity for change!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u117	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u118	Madam Secretary of State, first of all I would like to involve the whole of my group, and in particular Mr Jimmy Pahun, in my question. France's maritime areas represent the second largest maritime area in the world, and 30% of our maritime area will soon be classified and better protected. The future of the maritime world and this important ecosystem will be played in Brest, as you said, during the One Ocean Summit. This is an initiative of the President of the Republic. The situation is now marked by the lack of an international legal framework, and there is therefore an urgent need to move forward on these issues, with a view to better protecting our oceans. I would also like to point out that Parliament, and in particular the National Assembly, played a special role in adopting a resolution on this issue last November. In addition, our colleague and President Richard Ferrand had organized a parliamentary G7 in Brest on this topic of ocean protection. Madam Secretary of State, the question that arises today is what exactly we expect from the One Ocean Summit, beyond mere awareness, and what timetable we can imagine for a concrete translation, in practice, of the intentions that will be deployed there.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u119	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u120	Mr President, thank you for this question. The ocean is essential: it is 70% of the planet with, as you said, not only jurisdictions, but also out-of-court spaces that today have no protection or limit. It is essential that France continue to defend, as it has done through the voice of the President of the Republic for several months, this treaty BBNJ – Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction, or biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction – which must allow us, first of all, to set certain limits to unconsidered farms and to all that we know can damage the oceans, so essential both to biodiversity and to our fight against climate change, so simply to the ecosystem balances of the planet. The One Ocean Summit in Brest will allow us to mobilise the entire international sphere, whether it be scientists, NGOs or the world of finance and business, thus the whole chain that can mobilize to defend the oceans. We are also carrying out this work on plastic pollution, with a view to land-sea continuity, which is absolutely essential, because our activities are the primary cause of pollution. The work is also – and this is essential – about protected areas. In this connection, the President of the Republic made a very strong announcement at the World Congress for Nature we hosted in Marseille last September, with plans to place 5% of the French territorial waters of the Mediterranean in strong protection. These issues are essential, we take action, we deploy resources to that end, and we train the international community with us. This work is at work. Scientists called for this mobilization, and rightly so, because the oceans are still largely unknown and contain significant resources for the environmental challenges we face. I thank you, therefore, for bringing this matter to our attention. Indeed, 2002 will be fully devoted to these issues of the protection of the seas and oceans.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u121	There will be no question of the Republican Group or of the Socialist and related group. Mr Nicolas Meizonnet, who was supposed to ask a question for non-attached Members, was not present, and the debate on the ecological transition and the protection of biodiversity was closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-07-O1114.u122	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Debate on the report of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee on the evaluation of public health prevention policies; Debate on the reception of migrants in the European Union and the reform of the Dublin III Regulation. The meeting is adjourned.
