ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u1	The next item is the submission of the Court of Auditors' annual report pursuant to Rule 146(1) of our Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all of you, I welcome Mr Pierre Moscovici, the first President of the Court.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u2	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u3	It is based on article 39. As you know, Madam President, her third paragraph states that "only one Member from a group who has declared himself to be opposed may be elected to the chair of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control". However, since last week, Mr Woerth has left the Republican Group and is now a group of the majority, without having given up the chairmanship of the Finance Committee. Since 2007, therefore, for the past 15 years, the chairmanship of this committee has been reserved for a Member from an opposition group, so that Parliament can exercise democratic control over matters as essential as those which the first President of the Court of Auditors is about to present to us and which relate to public finances. The submission of the Court of Auditors' annual report shall be the subject of two interventions following that of the first President: those of the rapporteur-general for the budget, on behalf of the majority, and of the chairman of the Committee on Finance, on behalf of the opposition. This balance will therefore be broken for the first time in fifteen years. Rule 39 of our Rules of Procedure is therefore not respected and democratic control cannot take place in good conditions. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I therefore reiterate my request to Mr Woerth this morning in the Finance Committee to resign his presidency. I repeat, I consider that the statements on the agenda this afternoon are not in line with democratic scrutiny worthy of our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u4	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u5	On the basis of the same Rule of Procedure, I would like to say a few words. First of all, Mr President, I should like to welcome the quality of your report. However, as Mrs Rabault has just said, the debate on this report, as it has been being held in this House for the last 15 years, has only been the subject of two speeches after the first President of the Court spoke: that of the rapporteur-general for the budget and that of the chairman of the Committee on Finance. Thus, since 2007 and the constitutional reform desired by Nicolas Sarkozy, two analyses of this report follow each other, which are always of high standing, argued, but different. When, as chairman of the committee, I practised this exercise during the previous parliamentary term, Mrs Rabault was the general rapporteur of the budget, and I was expressing a different view from her. There was a real debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u6	All this is ridiculous!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u7	Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to hear two complacent voices: that of the rapporteur-general, whose role – it is quite normal – is also to support the action of the Government, and that of the chairman of the Finance Committee, who has just won the majority. Without wishing to enter into any controversy, however, there are important things to be highlighted in this report of the Court of Auditors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u8	Precisely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u9	... and I am not sure that neither of our two colleagues has the lucidity or the courage to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u10	It's serious to say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u11	The first thing to note is that at the end of these five years of parliament, France is downgraded.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u12	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u13	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is what the Court of Auditors writes. France, ladies and gentlemen, because of its debt, its level of government deficit, its external trade deficit, has joined the countries of the South.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u14	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u15	What does it have to do with the rules?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u16	Mr Carrez, we have to conclude.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u17	Before that, France was associated with Germany, the Netherlands and Austria: I repeat, it is now aligned with the countries of the South.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u18	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] You have to close right away, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u19	The rights of the opposition are at stake!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u20	I conclude, Madam President. As the Court of Auditors points out, this situation is due to the surge in public expenditure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u21	That's not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u22	By 2022, public expenditure will have increased, without recovery and without health crisis, by two points of GDP.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u23	[[Mr. Gilles Carrez continues to speak out of microphones. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Mr Carrez, this is no longer a point of order. I have to cut you off. Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u24	It is based on the same article as our two colleagues, Madam President. Indeed, the Communist Group associates itself with the presentation of the facts made by Mrs Rabault and Mr Carrez. We consider that in the pre-election period – I insist on the word – that we are living, such a situation throws trouble on the debate...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u26	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...that we're going to have today. In fact, we can go so far as to call this session an advertising session – stricto sensu – for the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u27	For now, it's the opposition that advertises it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u28	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] I shall conclude by asking Mr Woerth, like our colleagues before me, with all due respect, to withdraw from the chairmanship of the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u29	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u30	I'm asking for a suspension of the sitting, Madam Chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u31	She's right. The meeting was suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u32	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u33	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u34	It is also based on rule 39, Madam Chair. We agreed, a long time ago, that the Chairman of the Finance Committee should be a member of the opposition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u35	At the time of his election!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u36	... so that he can carry the voice of the latter, which is quite logical. Our president chose to change sides. He is free to do so, but the fact that he remains in his post poses a real problem of democracy. Who will bring the opposition's speech to the first chapter of the Court of Auditors' report, which states that "the structural deficit [of France]...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u37	This is no longer a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u38	... is expected to reach five points of GDP [in 2022], double its level in 2019", and while it was only 2.4 points of GDP in 2017?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u39	Listen, Mr. de Courson, he's talking about gold.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u40	But this is not a point of order!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u41	Who will say, as the Court of Auditors does, that the reduction in compulsory levies of 1.7 percentage points of GDP, i.e. 42 billion euros, was entirely financed on credit, since public expenditure increased between 2017 and 2022?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u42	What article in the regulation mentions the public deficit?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u43	The Government responds to the criticisms of the Court of Auditors: "... if we share the Court's attention to the sustainability of public finances, we do not share its sentiment when it mentions possible risks on the confidence of economic actors in France's ability to honour its commitments, in the event of an increase in the debt ratio. Who will contradict the Government? That's the bottom line!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u44	It's never been seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u45	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u46	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] We are facing a democratic problem: in a democracy, the opposition has the right to speak; If this is not the case, while the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide for it, we are facing a huge problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u47	Mr Gilles Carrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u48	I ask for a suspension of the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u49	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u50	The meeting was resumed. The first President of the Court of Auditors, Pierre Moscovici, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u51	Madam President, pursuant to Article L. 143-6 of the Code of Financial Courts, I have had the honour to present to you at the moment the annual public report of the Court of Auditors. Thank you, Madam President, as well as Members, for the welcome you have given to the Court, which reflects the quality of the ties between our two institutions – you know how much I am attached to it. I have great pleasure in reuniting with your assembly, under your presidency, the Member of Parliament for the Doubs, a department to which I am particularly linked. The annual public report 2022, which I am about to present to you, is primarily the result of collective work, carried out during a pivotal year in the fight against the covid-19 pandemic and in the redesign of our socio-economic model. I take this opportunity, without taking part in the debate that was yours, to recall, if necessary, what the Court of Auditors is, namely an institution of the Republic, collegial, independent and which produces objective and substantiated analyses designed to inform the citizen; It does not take part in the political debate, it is no more moderate than it is radical, it draws up reports. This year's report is structured around 19 thematic chapters, preceded by the traditional introductory chapter on public finances. It is not just a matter of analyzing our behaviour in an emergency, but of assessing our resilience and our ability to address the structural weaknesses that the crisis has revealed or accentuated. Let's go back to the heart of the subject without further delay. First of all, I would like to point out that in order to deal with the pandemic, the scale of public resources deployed has been unprecedented – that is what has been called the policy of "whatever it costs". If such action were necessary to preserve activity and sustain future growth, it would have a lasting impact on the public deficit and debt. The necessary recovery of public finances – it will not be surprising that the Court is concerned about this – will inevitably pass, regardless of a growth strategy that is also indispensable, through efforts to control our spending.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u52	What about the recipes?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u53	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Charles de Courson also applauds]] The introductory chapter of the annual public report shows that, while the year 2021 was the year of the rebound of economic activity – in unprecedented proportions since the growth rate still reached 7% of GDP – this recovery is accompanied by a high and structural public deficit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u54	That's very disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u55	The government deficit remains at 8.2 points of GDP, reduced to 7 points according to the latest government statements, and would still be 5 points in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u56	It was set at 0.4%!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u58	And it doesn't bother Eric Woerth anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u59	Renegat!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u60	What is worrying for the year 2022 is the structural dimension of the deficit. Corrected by the impact of the economic situation, the deficit forecast in 2022 is double its pre-crisis level!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u61	It has the merit of being clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u62	But the government doesn't want to talk about it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u63	Public debt would represent 113.5 points of GDP in 2022 and would then exceed its 2019 level by 16 points, already above the euro area average. As you will have understood, in order to achieve such levels of public deficit and debt, French public expenditure has increased considerably, which is not surprising; In fact, it was necessary to agree to incur exceptional expenses in order to cope with an exceptional situation. However, they reach a much higher level than before the crisis, even beyond temporary measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u64	Yes, that's very true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u65	Public expenditure would account for 59.8% of GDP in 2021 and 55.7% in 2022; They would thus be nearly 2 points higher than their 2019 level. Each crisis creates a click effect for public spending, which remains after the crisis still slightly higher than before.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u66	Clearly higher, in this case!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u67	As much as the support measures, which would explain 2 points of GDP the increase in public expenditure between 2019 and 2022, it is indeed the introduction of new sustainable expenditure that will degrade the structural balance. With regard to revenues, we point out in the annual public report that their increase, driven by the rebound in activity in 2021, was hampered by significant tax cuts. In 2021 and 2022, compulsory levies would increase by 5.1% and 4.6% respectively, less than economic activity. The compulsory levy rate would therefore fall by just over 1 percentage point over the two years, from 44.5% in 2020 to 43.8% in 2021 and 43.4% of GDP in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u68	And that's also what drives the debt!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u69	The state of affairs before you is factual and must be taken all the more seriously as the growth profile will evolve: 2020 was a year of catastrophic decline, the worst in a century; last year was an exceptional year, the best in 60 years with an increase in GDP of 7%; the year 2022 should still be very good with a growth of 4%; Then, according to official forecasts, we should regain little or no potential for growth, with GDP rising by 1.6% in 2023. A slowdown in growth combined with maintaining a high level of the government deficit could lead to an increase in the debt ratio; We must guarantee the confidence of economic actors in France's ability to honour its past and future commitments. I stress this point, which the Court has already stressed on several occasions: ensuring the sustainability of the public debt is an issue of sovereignty and credibility for the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u70	It's very important!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u71	The rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance has been saying this for years. Such an objective can only be achieved by pursuing a targeted fiscal policy aimed at redressing the trajectory of public finances. The Court provided the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister with a report on this subject last June; It presents the two pillars of a strategy to be deployed: first, growth, which is indispensable and which we need to strengthen through investments in energy and digital transitions, in research, in innovation and in our industrial fabric. But, in addition to this, it is essential to thoroughly reform the governance of public finances and to complete, two decades after its adoption, our financial constitution. The adoption of the Organization Act on the Modernization of the Management of Public Finances and the Act on various provisions relating to the High Council for Public Finances and the provision of information to Parliament on public finances contribute to these objectives. I'm glad to hear that. We have worked well with the Committee on Finance to achieve this, although, in my view, we need to go a little further. In order to control public spending at national level, several major reforms still need to be carried out in priority areas that we have identified – we have cited pensions, health insurance, employment policy and housing policy. At European level, a reform of the governance framework for public finances must be completed before the derogation clause is lifted in 2023. It seems to me that we need to favour a pragmatic approach, for example by limiting certain investments, in particular environmental investments, on the one hand, and by determining a country-specific debt ratio according to its macroeconomic situation, on the other. Given this observation on public finances, we have chosen to deal in this annual public report with important sectoral issues by their operational scale or by the financial masses involved. The first lesson of the annual public report 2022 is that despite insufficient anticipation of a crisis, it is true, absolutely unprecedented, that the public authorities, the public authorities and the public service in France have been globally reactive. They have demonstrated a very high capacity for adaptation, and even innovation, to protect the population, to ensure the continuity of public service and to preserve the economic fabric. The state, at this moment, has played the role of an insurer of last resort, and it is a teaching of the crisis that this form of reconciliation of our fellow citizens with the state. First, despite the initial constraints that were theirs and the intensity of the activity they were facing, public actors were able to mobilize quickly. I'll give you a few examples. The chapter on the Directorate-General for Public Finance (DGFIP) and the Directorate-General for Customs and Indirect Duties (DGDDI) illustrates the very strong involvement of administrative staff, the development of remote working methods and the digitisation of procedures. It must be borne in mind, rightly, that these directions were not ready when the health crisis came to an end. Crisis management tools such as business continuity plans or remote working arrangements were poorly developed – only 27% of DGDDI officers and 17% of DGFIP officers were equipped with laptops in March 2020 – but the administration was very effective in its responsiveness. Both directorates took note of the health crisis and, in June 2021, increased their equipment rate to 81%, which represents a considerable leap. The Directorate of Prison Administration (DAP) and the Judicial Protection of Youth (PJJ) have also been fully responsive to the crisis. The chapter on this subject points out that they were also poorly prepared, but that continuity of service was ensured at the cost of adapting the operating arrangements in a closed environment and a sharp reduction in activities in an open environment. As has been done throughout Europe, the prison administration has accelerated the release of prisoners sentenced to light sentences or with the best chances of reintegration. However, we are making an important reservation about the vaccination policy of prisoners and prison staff who have not been given priority – in our view wrongly. I would then like to stress the key role played by the State, which has chosen to provide massive support to the sectors most affected by the health crisis and to the country's economic activity. One of the best illustrations was the introduction of the State-guaranteed loan scheme, the now famous EMPs. In the face of a major risk of credit tightening, France, within the legal framework set by the European Commission, has set up what are known as liquidity bridges for companies. Beyond the scheme itself – which still represents some EUR 120 billion – what we are putting forward is the speed of granting and the proper calibration of the EMPs. This success was fostered by the good cooperation between the administration, the financial actors and BPIFrance, an organization that I know well for having focused on baptismal fonts and which played a very decisive role. The state has also chosen to intervene directly in specific sectors, like the sports world, whose turnover fell dramatically by €20 billion in 2020. The State has therefore put in place substantial aid for sport. Like the crisis itself, exceptional tax measures had to be taken. We show, in a chapter entirely dedicated to these measures, how the French tax administration has taken the appropriate decisions to support the cash flow of companies. Finally, the State has been particularly active in ensuring the proper management of essential goods such as electricity and public transport, which have been heavily affected by the crisis. Maintaining electricity supply is a good example of cooperation and coordination between all public and private actors in the electricity sector. We show that the state has played a structuring role and has been able to protect it. At the height of the health crisis, he acted in favour of consumers and businesses in the face of rising prices by, for example, prolonging the winter truce and allowing for carry-overs of invoices. The State has also been able to support: it has in fact provided financial support to EDF, the main electricity producer in France, through a bond issue issued by the company in the amount of 960 million euros. Another key sector is transport, to which several chapters of the report are devoted, one dedicated to the public transport network of the Île-de-France region, the other to the public operator Transdev and to French airports. Both emphasize that the State has played a major role. The Court of Auditors' investigation into public transport in Île-de-France showed that Île-de-France Mobilitys and the RATP and SNCF operators chose to maintain a much higher offer than the traffic which, logically, had suffered a sharp fall.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u72	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u73	Why? To ensure the transport of employees who were in the first or second line in the face of the crisis of the covid-19 and to enable compliance with the rules of distancing. As a result, the operators suffered very large financial losses due to the contraction of tariff revenues, but the State agreed to compensate them massively. It seems to me important to recall that it is this positive presence of the state that has enabled our country to cope with the epidemic waves and the spectre of the economic recession. The state cannot do everything, but the crisis has shown, however, that it can do much in times as dramatic as the one we have gone through and are still going through. It is often said that the Court "pins" and "strills": I hate this presentation, because this is not its vocation. It is there to make a judgement, to make an assessment and to give a balanced assessment of public policies through objective and substantiated elements of analysis. However, as a mirror of the successes it is keen to highlight, the Court also looks back at the dysfunctions that have emerged at the heart of the health crisis, because not everything has been perfect – this is the second lesson in this annual public report 2022. First, in some areas, the management of the health crisis has been marked by a lack of targeting of the resources deployed, resulting in less effective support and recovery mechanisms. I think first of all of the plan "1 young, 1 solution". There was a need for massive intervention in this area, but insufficient attention was paid to local realities, resulting in an increase in resources almost uniformly throughout the country, including in areas where the employment situation of young people showed little sign of deterioration. We need to think about a targeted policy to enable young people to get out of unemployment. In the same spirit, the chapter on European employment measures highlights shortcomings in the management of the Ministry of Labour. France unites itself by dispersing funding towards a multitude of actions and project promoters, which complicates the management and audit of the corresponding funds. We stress that the culture of risk control needs to be strengthened. This applies to the proper use of European funds, which France can benefit from until 2026 as part of the so-called facility for recovery and resilience. More broadly, it is clear from our work that the lack of calibration of the devices could also come from insufficient knowledge of the potential beneficiaries. This is the observation in the important chapter on support for student life, which deplores the late care of the student community during the crisis. This delay reflects the remoteness and lack of data and information on the student population. The devices selected were based on a good feeling; However, they have been directed to well-known audiences, i.e. scholarship holders, rather than to other students in great precariousness, who are less visible from the administrative services. Here again, public policy is probably to be refined.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u74	We said so, but we were not listened to.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u75	With regard to the lack of coordination, I would like to mention as a matter of priority the work carried out by the regional and territorial chambers of accounts in your territories, ladies and gentlemen, which highlight the sometimes difficult articulation of the interventions of national and local public actors. The chapter dedicated to the economic interventions of the local authorities in Occitanie reflects the need to better frame support arrangements, avoiding a fragmentation of the means which can be detrimental to their effectiveness. Thus, although the State has set up a national solidarity fund to avoid the disorderly proliferation of aid schemes granted by local authorities to enterprises in their territory, the rationalization effort has, it must be said, remained almost dead letter. Each community level has developed its own support mechanism, sometimes at the cost of a strategy of circumvention of the rules defining its competences. The chapter on the control of public service delegations in the Hauts-de-France points out, for its part, that, in the absence of a clear strategy to meet the imperatives of continuity and adaptation of the public service, the delegating authorities too often met the demands of the delegated undertakings without real discussion, despite the fall in delegated activities and the decline in the quality of service to the users. Finally, we regret that the aid granted has generally not been accompanied by sufficient precautions to avoid certain windfall effects and to limit the risk of fraud. The monitoring of exceptional tax measures, of which I stressed the full relevance, was difficult because of the rigidities associated with the tax administration's information system. Similarly, attention needs to be paid to the follow-up of EMPs. It is difficult, at this stage, to predict the total cost to the State, since it depends on the default rate of the beneficiaries, currently estimated at 4%, i.e. a net cost to the State of less than EUR 3 billion; However, it must be monitored. In a more sectoral way, we identify similar limits for state aid to the sports movement. The means dedicated to controls have been almost non-existent and the deployment of aid has been in great confusion between emergency measures and recovery measures. There is a need to clarify and develop, in federations as well as in the National Sport Agency (ANS) and in the Sports Directorate, a genuine management control and audit function. The state therefore acted with voluntarism during the crisis – sometimes brilliantly, sometimes less well; It is not a question of denigrating his actions here, but of learning from the crisis and, like Churchill, of thinking that a good crisis must never be wasted. The third and final lesson I want to learn from this annual public report 2022 is that the structural weaknesses of our productive system and our social and ecological transition model were accentuated during the health crisis. The pandemic first recalled that we were individually and collectively vulnerable. The first of these vulnerabilities is, of course, the production of health products. The sharp rise in demand, particularly for medicines or health protection masks, has undermined the functioning of our supply chains. The chapter of the annual public report on the supply of health products shows that the shortages we have faced expose our – now well documented – dependence on certain imported products from countries such as China and India. The second vulnerability I would like to talk about relates to the food sector. We have avoided supply disruptions, but the report also highlights the insufficient development of proximity circuits. Secondly, the health crisis has tested our social model. He has resisted, he has been able to protect our fellow citizens, but he must be consolidated. I have a special thought, like you, for the 600,000 residents of EHPAD who are among the people who suffered the most from the crisis, first because between March 2020 and March 2021, the pandemic caused nearly 34,000 deaths among them, or 36% of deaths in France as a result of the covid-19. The important chapter on crisis management in the EPHADs highlights the structural difficulties faced by these institutions: inadequate medicalisation, outdated premises, too low level of supervision. It is the EHPAD model itself that I believe needs to be rethought. I will shortly be submitting a specific report to your House on this subject, in which I will make proposals to extend the powers of the financial courts to better control this sector of activity. Finally, I would like to raise a very important subject, that of the ecological transition. We have chosen to illustrate the impact of climate change through the situation of the middle mountain resorts of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques. Behind the bucolic, even anecdotal, appearance of the subject is the need to renew an unsustainable economic model because of current and future environmental realities. In twenty to thirty years, only one Pyrenean station should still benefit from an acceptable level of natural snow. How, then, can we think of tomorrow's mountain? The issue is important. The need for resilience is also illustrated by the risks to the availability of nuclear energy. The situation prompts us – and even compels us – to analyse the ecological and energy transitions as the two sides of the same room. Because of its decarbonized nature, nuclear power is essential to achieve the neutrality objectives that France has set itself. The annual public report 2022 illustrates the diversity of the subjects dealt with by the financial courts, but also their ability to be in line with the realities of the field. The themes we have chosen all show a conviction: when it comes to the health crisis and the concerns of French and French people, there is no small subject. The report gives, I believe, an objective picture of France emerging from the crisis, with successes and weaknesses; challenges to be met; assets and gaps. I want to be optimistic, with the optimism of the will, but also that of rationality. We all hope that the year 2022 will be the year of the end of the crisis of the Covid-19. It will probably be at least that of its trivialization, and of the transformation of the pandemic into an epidemic. This must not cause us to succumb to morosity, on the contrary. Once again, we must adapt – it is the nature of man that confronts change, difficulties. I will make my words of Jean Jaurès – without nostalgia, believe it: "We must have no regrets for the past, no remorse for the present, and unwavering confidence for the future. We simply need to become aware of the obstacles of the present, in a collective and supportive way. In a nutshell, we must make the future happen in 2022, where the stakes are very high. It is up to us to respond to the call of our fellow citizens and decision-makers to inform their choice. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC and LT groups]] I would be happy to see you all year long, hoping that our exchanges and cooperation will remain as rich. In any case, you will always be able to count on the Court of Auditors, whose independence I once again affirm. It stands equidistant from the executive and Parliament, with a single compass: informing the citizen to be useful to the country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u76	[[Protests on the benches of the LR and SOC groups]] We will now hear from the Chairman of the Finance Committee. Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u77	Madam Chair, I ask for a suspension of the sitting. I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to the first President of the Court of Auditors for this exciting presentation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u78	The suspension is on its own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u79	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u80	The meeting was resumed. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr President, the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u81	[[Smile]] We find ourselves, as every year – but more so this time, which I am pleased to see – in the presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual public report. This makes it possible to recall the importance both of the Court's work in evaluating public policies and of its relationship with the monitoring and evaluation mission entrusted to Parliament by the Constitution. This articulation goes well beyond the meeting around the annual report. The Court of Auditors will issue next week three of the five reports requested by the Finance Committee of our Assembly on the basis of Article 58(2) of the Organic Law on Finance Laws, the LOLF. I welcome the fact that the Court has agreed to the exercise within a short period of time, allowing us to examine these reports before the end of the legislature, when such work is usually delivered in June and July. These three investigations will relate respectively to public debt management, police training and energy cheques. In all three cases, these are subjects of interest, which will fortunately complement the many analyses already offered in the annual public report. The analysis notes published by the Court of Auditors last autumn on a range of major public policies have also provided useful and in-depth insights into the budget. The Court of Auditors also participates each year in the spring of the evaluation. Together, we have constructed this approach that precedes the consideration of the draft budget regulation and approval of the accounts bill and, in particular, allows the hearing of many judges of the Court by the Special Rapporteurs, in order to clarify and enrich their evaluation work, in addition to the budget implementation notes. In short, I welcome the regular, clear and frank relations that the Committee on Finance has with this institution. [[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] I now turn to the substance of the report, starting with the state of our public finances. I will reassure some: I have maintained the same share of opposition in me since the beginning of the quinquennium; I haven't changed. Maybe you're not going to applaud the rest... Indeed, as I have always said, France has approached the crisis in a situation of relative weakness compared to other European countries. In 2019, the French government deficit was the highest in the euro area – it was 3.1% of GDP – as was the ratio of public expenditure to GDP – which was 55.6%. The Court, in its annual public report, shows a very marked contrast with other countries in the area. Thus, the level of French debt, similar to that of Germany in 2006, exceeds it in 2020 by almost forty-five points. The difference should even be, according to the court, fifty points in 2025. It's obviously considerable. The Court also recalls that the return to a deficit of less than 3 % in 2027 would require an exceptional effort, since the growth in the volume of public expenditure between 2023 and 2027 would have to be contained at an average of 0.4 %, much less than the average growth of 1 % observed between 2010 and 2019 and the current forecast of 0.8% annual growth in the volume of expenditure for the next five years. Like me, the Court of Auditors is questioning the increase in the level of public expenditure since 2020. Support and recovery measures amounted to 190 billion for the years 2020, 2021 and 2022. The amount spent on dealing with the crisis was about four points of GDP, roughly as much as in countries comparable to ours. Without calling into question this effort – especially since it was made with the agreement and contribution of the Assembly – one can wonder about the extent of the increase in current expenditure. It grew by 100 billion in three years, between 2020 and 2022. The Court refers to a steady 2.2% increase in the volume of expenditure in 2021, but the increase was already 1.7% in 2017 and 1.4% in 2019. Another interesting figure is France's debt during this quinquennium in the same proportions as that of Nicolas Sarkozy – 640 billion euros for the latter as against 641 billion euros for Emmanuel Macron – on the understanding that both mandates were affected by gigantic crises. When there's nothing left, there's still the state, which translates into debt. Beyond the amounts, the central question is the quality and efficiency of public expenditure. Reducing the increase in public spending is one thing; To study its usefulness, efficiency and productivity is another. I have been saying this since the beginning of the legislature and I have not changed my mind: the first of the sovereignties is financial. However, it is currently under threat. During the parliamentary term, the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance and I managed to reform our financial constitution. We have groomed the LOLF in order to have more cards in hand and to effectively control public spending. This obviously involves an indispensable reflection on the very nature of public expenditure. It is necessary to target "good spending", that is, that which is useful and which enables public policies to achieve their objectives – they still need to have – and to review the one that fails to fulfil this contract. This means that the necessary means, procedures and methods must be developed to evaluate these policies, which can serve as decision-making tools for the Government if the Government does not simply see any failures. We have to reason with regard to public productivity of expenditure. That is why we must begin to become accustomed to supporting investment expenditure and to carefully looking at the growth of operating expenditure. The tools we have developed will undoubtedly make it much better than they are today. In order to achieve this, we can rely on a permanent system of evaluation and general review of public expenditure, in which Parliament obviously plays a key role – and we must continue to deepen its action through the Spring of Evaluation and all the tasks and work of the rapporteurs-general, but whose Court of Auditors is also a central player. Following these reflections on the overall state of public finances, the report addresses, in 19 chapters, various aspects of the response of public policies to the health and economic crisis. The first subject is the subject of a particularly heavy and painful topicality, which leads many of us to wonder about the fate of our own family: that of the elderly who are housed in EHPAD. In these facilities, mortality was particularly high during the first two waves of the epidemic, so much so that residents accounted for 50% of covid-related deaths during this period. The Court of Auditors has rightly examined the structural causes of this tragedy. A number of factors explain why some structures have been particularly affected: lack of human resources, inadequate accommodation and late implementation of covid prevention measures. Unsurprisingly, it is the human factor that is most important: the most affected EHPADs are those with the lowest numbers, be they paramedics, nurses or doctors-coordinators. Analyzing the financial mobilization that this episode generated, the Court concludes that the crisis gave rise to an unprecedented public effort. Compensation for loss of revenue, coverage of pandemic expenses and full coverage of the co-vid premium by health insurance amounted to a total cost of 1.7 billion in 2020. This short-term expenditure has been amplified by the cost of the long-term measures taken in the framework of the Segur de la santé – about 10 billion – i.e. the revalorisation of the salaries of hospital and EHPAD staff. In total, for 2022, the overall expenditure target for the elderly is 14.3 billion – which is still insufficient, as was understood in the Libault report. The Court of Auditors shows the full extent of the financial consequences which these choices of salary revalorisation will have, although justified, but which must be borne in the long term. Any long-term expenditure must have sustainable funding; We're far from it. The creation of the fifth branch makes it possible to clarify the political intention, but in no way solves the question of the financing of dependency. As advocated by the Libault report and that of the Inspector General of Finance Laurent Vachey, we would still have to add 10 billion to the 30 billion already mobilized. The nation cannot help but do so, without which the elderly would not receive the worthy response that any developed society must give them. On the other hand, the Court deals at length with the subject of electricity supply, which is also very topical. Due to the health crisis and its consequences, gross electricity consumption fell by 3.5% between 2019 and 2020. In her view, while the first containment restriction measures have affected the continuity of electricity generation and delivery, the various players in the system – there are many – have nevertheless been able to cope, while at the same time offering their employees a satisfactory level of protection. It was important to stress that. At the beginning of the year, however, the availability of the French nuclear fleet was at its lowest level ever at that time. The health crisis has highlighted the consequences of the lack of margins in the electricity generation system in the light of security of supply requirements. The loss of tax revenues – in the order of 8 billion – resulting from the State's attempt to lower household costs in 2022 shows the magnitude of the problem posed by rising electricity prices. It is impossible to continue this way: the state cannot seek to maintain public finances in a reasonable trajectory while paying electricity bills. Of course, these invoices include a share of taxes, but this tax is necessary to finance all expenditure. We can't give it up without the system shutting down. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, many challenges await the next President of the Republic – probably more numerous than those faced by his predecessors – and among them the immense challenge of the sustainability of public finances. It is imperative that we return to a sustainable level of debt, i.e. less than 100 per cent of GDP. By limiting the increase in public spending to about 0.4 per cent by volume and increasing the country's potential growth, we could achieve this within a decade. We must, with courage, question our relationship to time and ensure the consistency of public action, otherwise we will lose our financial sovereignty. This is at the core of the next law on public finance programming, which is fundamental to the country's future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u82	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, rapporteur-general of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u83	The annual public report, which has been produced every year for now one hundred and ninety years, is certainly the most well-known publication of the Court of Auditors of our citizens, but also the most feared – in the common sense of the word – of the administrations, institutions and bodies which the financial courts have the task of supervising. Its success is the result of the constant willingness of financial judges to adapt its content to the expectations of public authorities and citizens. Contrary to what I heard earlier in the points of order, the challenge of this annual meeting is in no way to be complacent with the Government, but to be aware of the Court's work and to comment on it. The report itself has nothing complacent – and you will see that my speech will not be so either – but is, on the contrary, quite useful and necessary. In view of the reform of the financial courts by 2025, the exercise is now renewed. Mr. First President, you have chosen to focus on a major issue of public action: the lessons to be learned from the health crisis and its budgetary, economic, financial and social consequences. The idea is, by dealing with a single issue, to gain consistency while preserving the diversity and completeness of your observations. You have also chosen to focus on a major event to better highlight the more structural and older realities of public action. When I read your report, I see that the bet is successful and I congratulate you on that. You pass the public policies on to the revelation of the health crisis and the picture you draw allows you to go back to the roots of the problems raised. I would like to go back to the main lines of strength of your report and what it says about the State, the collective organization and the quality of public policies. Let us say it from the outset, the Court of Auditors fully assumes its role! Your diagnosis is not full of complacency or easy satisfaction. Rather, it has a balanced and interrogative tone. It contains many useful, if not crucial, lessons within a few weeks of national elections. In the face of the pandemic, beyond the health measures themselves, our country has put in place emergency policies in all areas where this was necessary. Over the last two years, this has been the main part of our work here and in the Committee on Finance: the introduction of the 'no matter what', the solidarity fund, the loans guaranteed by the State, the introduction of partial activity, the reduction or cancellation of social charges. In short, we have taken emergency measures, financed by an ad hoc budgetary mission, the Emergency Crisis Mission, which have enabled our country to resist rather better than others and rather better than in previous crises. France has therefore, without delay, carried out a powerful social policy, with appropriate tools, the mobilization of financial resources to match the stakes and an administration – as you said, Mr. the first president – which has been able to react agilely and responsively to the brutal upheaval of its missions and objectives. This satisfaction – in quotation marks – remains of course relevant, but the merit of your report is to go much further in the analysis. You show that public policies sometimes suffer, in their conduct, from a failing knowledge of the audiences they target. While the first confinement has led to the closure of universities and university restaurants, preventing students from working, you see that the public policies launched to support them have been insufficient in terms of their precariousness. Of course, as early as 2020, we have proposed direct emergency aid to student fellows, set up 1 euro meals and applied, on the ground, important mechanisms for the psychological health of students. But it must be seen with lucidity: we have "not enough" done, or "too late" or "in too few places". You rightly conclude that, in the absence of a thorough knowledge of the needs of the student population and of "reliable data on the notion of student precariousness, the public authorities were not prepared to deal with a major crisis". This is an essential lesson from the annual public report, which must lead us to question how to better manage public action in the future. You also rightly note that good results are sometimes achieved at the cost of over-dimensioning public policies. Indeed, if one does not know precisely the target audiences, one is condemned, in order to achieve its goal, to resort to ill-calibrated and ill-proportional means. The same applies when control is insufficient. We have this common concern: to properly scale public spending in order to increase its efficiency. For example, the plan "1 young person, 1 solution". I think we can all welcome the fact that unemployment has fallen sharply in the last five years, particularly among young people. In this regard, the quantitative and cultural revolution achieved during the quinquennium in terms of learning is a crucial achievement for the country, which we will need to consolidate. However, you are asking – and you are right – to evaluate these results with the means used, especially during the health crisis. You are calling, as elsewhere, for the clarity and targeting of the schemes, given the complexity of the actors and the extreme diversity of access to employment in different territories. In total, you note that the grid of public action – especially in times of emergency, but not only – was not fine enough to be fully effective. You also point out that while governments and public officials were able to meet the challenge, often at a standstill, the public authorities as a whole were ill prepared in March 2020 to face the health crisis. You had already highlighted this last spring in your report on the courts handed over to the Finance Committee under Article 58(2) of the LOLF. At that time, you found that the most computer-enabled jurisdictions and the most advanced in the digitization of procedures were best able to respond to the problems posed by the health crisis. With the review of the prison administration and the judicial protection of young people, as well as the tax and customs administrations, you again highlight the ability of these services to adapt to the circumstances. Public officials have been very responsive, but in some administrations you deplore the weakness of the general secretariats of the ministries responsible for preparing the action plans in the event of a crisis – some kind of administrative stress – and the delay in dematerializing public action. In addition, you are analysing the action taken by certain local and regional authorities in the face of the crisis. During these two years, I have talked a lot about this with the special rapporteurs of the Committee on Finance on the mission Relations with local and regional authorities, Christophe Jerretie and Jean-René Cazeneuve – the latter being also chairman of the delegation to local and regional authorities and decentralisation: we all know that they have provided essential support for the population. The communal bloc, the departments and the regions have all been very useful and have taken action complementary to that of the State. Nevertheless – this is what your work suggests – good public action is not the sum of the good wills of each level of administration. You are absolutely right: it is important for everyone to respect the skills of others. The effectiveness and clarity of local public action depend on it. You will understand that I refer to your analyses of public transport in Île-de-France. I was talking about the importance of giving local goodwill; As regards the short-term management of tariff revenue declines, this is rather a lack of regional will. You rightly point out that in the face of the curious policy of the empty caisse led by the Île-de-France region, "the health crisis makes the State appear as the insurer of last resort for almost all the losses suffered by the system of collective transport in Île-de-France, whose management is nevertheless decentralized and the financing of the exploitation supposed to be based on exclusively francilian resources. » Your annual public report cannot be mentioned without considering the overall state of public finances. In the previous two years, you have often provided us with your comments on this matter. In terms of deficit and debt, the situation is worse than that of most of our European neighbours, even though we managed to achieve better results in 2021 than expected. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that we kept ourselves from any triumphalism, when we discovered them: it's good news,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u85	...but there is so much to do to clean up public finances, that no triumphalism would be acceptable. This situation requires the immediate identification and borrowing of a path of deleveraging, based both on the strengthening of our country's potential growth and on an effective effort on public spending – two pillars that you mentioned. Pre-crisis reforms, including tax and labour market reforms, as well as our support and recovery policies, will allow us to achieve growth that is at least 0.5% higher than in 2019 before the crisis. If it is backed by a reduction and control of public expenditure, in particular through structural reforms, this path of debt relief and consolidation of public finances is quite realistic – in any case it is highly desirable. For my part, I am sure that the French expect serious prospects for public finances and I hope that the campaign for the presidential election will be an opportunity to discuss this crucial subject for all our citizens. In fact, the Organic Law on the Modernization of Public Financial Management, which Eric Woerth and I have engaged together, sends a good signal and offers a new, more rigorous framework, to ensure better leadership, to promote the deleveraging and consolidation of our public accounts. I cannot help but find in this work the confirmation that the prospects of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and my own sometimes converge, in any case we agree on certain needs. Finally, I thank the Court for drawing so precisely the image of our country's strengths and weaknesses. We have a public power capable of serving the French in a massive and rapid manner, including in the emergency. But its action suffers from multiple ills, which greatly damage its performance: it does not know the singularity of the situations of the people it wishes to take care of, and is therefore sometimes led to target large, too wide to achieve the desired degree of efficiency; It relies on insufficiently modernised tools, and its overall organisation lacks clarity. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Whatever his face, the next legislature will have to deal with these weaknesses. The treatment will certainly be made more difficult by the state of public finances, but I am convinced that it is also a major key to their recovery.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u86	Mr. First President, the National Assembly takes note of the submission of the report of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u87	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u88	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u89	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme, Mr Yaël Braun-Pivet, MM. Guillaume Gouffier-Cha, Christophe Castaner and several of their colleagues with various provisions for adapting to European Union law in the prevention of the dissemination of terrorist content online (No 4883, 5024).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u90	Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u91	The unbearable ease with which the videos of Christchurch's killing have circulated on social networks has challenged us all and aroused a strong collective emotion. A few months later, the assassination of Samuel Paty revealed the role of the circulation of calls for violence in the fabric of hatred. Unfortunately, these two examples are not isolated: most of the attacks in Europe are based, almost or by far, on the Internet, whether it is to find out, announce or promote these heinous acts. These examples show that the fight against the spread of terrorist content requires constant adaptation of our legislation, in order to better understand new uses on online platforms. It is our duty to achieve this, while respecting fundamental freedoms, without overbidding, for never, ever, to give reason to those who spread violence. French legislation already includes a provision allowing the withdrawal or blocking of terrorist content. Article 6-1 of the Digital Economy Trust Act (LCEN) allows the Central Office for Combating Information and Communication Technology Crime, OCLCTIC, to request publishers or hosting companies to remove terrorist material. To this end, this administrative authority relies on alerts made on the platform for harmonisation, analysis, cross-checking and guidance of alerts (PHAROS), which recorded nearly 264000 alerts in 2021, including 7,900 linked to terrorism. If the withdrawal order is not complied with within 24 hours, OCLCTIC may request Internet service providers, search engines and directories to block access to the website or to de-reference the elements covered by the order. Because the spread of such content constitutes a major threat, which requires a rapid reaction from the public authorities, our Parliament passed two years ago a bold law, the Avia law, which provided that publishers and hosting companies would be obliged to withdraw the terrorist content notified by the OCLCTIC within an hour. This provision has been censored by the Constitutional Council for reasons that cannot be applied to this bill. But the legal landscape has changed considerably since then. On 7 June, the European Regulation of 29 April 2021 on combating the dissemination of terrorist content online, or the TCO Regulation, will enter into force. As a result of two years of negotiations and work in European bodies, this text introduces uniform rules to combat the misuse of terrorist content, and provides for a series of new obligations towards hosting companies. The most important thing, no doubt, is to require the host to withdraw or block, within one hour and in all Member States, access to the content of a terrorist nature notified to him. European regulations do not, in principle, need to be included in national law: France is obliged to apply their provisions directly. However, some of the articles of the TCO Regulation require the adjustment of our national legislation to the margin. This bill is part of this framework: it is the sole purpose of this bill to decline in our law the new obligations of the TCO regulation, neither more nor less. Despite this very limited purpose, the debates in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure last week raised some concerns which I would like to dispel right now. In particular, I was asked about the choice of legislative vehicle: why a bill, which implies the absence of an impact assessment or of an opinion of the Council of State? The reason for this is that the text merely ensures the full application of the TCO Regulation, the provisions of which are already known and have been weighed and weighed by the European legislator for several years. I would like to warn us: our debates cannot replay the game. This regulation has been voted, it will enter into force no matter what happens on 7 June and its content is binding on the legislator we are. I also want to reassure some colleagues who are concerned about the constitutionality of the scheme. On the one hand, as I pointed out at the moment, the bill simply reflects European law, the transposition of which is an obligation; As such, the Constitutional Council provides for a review of limited constitutionality. On the other hand, the physical scope of the offence is not the same as at the time of the proceedings of the Avia Act. Indeed, the nature of terrorist content is precisely defined in the European regulation. This area specifically excludes the removal of content disseminated to the public "for educational, journalistic, artistic or research purposes, or for the purpose of preventing or combating terrorism, including material that represents the expression of controversial or controversial opinions in the context of public debate". The landscape is therefore one of greater legal certainty, especially since only manifestly illegal content is covered, which was not the case in 2020. Moreover, in the event of non-compliance by the hosting companies with their administrative obligations, the bill does not provide for immediate sanctions, but first of all a formal notice. The Autorité de régulation de la communication audiovisuel et numérique (ARCOM) may even make recommendations before any formalisation. In addition, with regard to the obligation to withdraw the content, the first notification shall be subject to prior information from the host, at least 12 hours before the injunction, in order to notify him of the applicable procedure and of the remedies. Finally, and most importantly, the proposed text for section 6-1-4 of the NCA will allow providers of content and hosting services to refer the matter to the administrative judge in a particularly short time frame. These procedures may be combined with ordinary proceedings. All these elements tend to establish the constitutionality of the scheme. Other concerns were raised with regard to the cross-border withdrawal orders provided for in the Regulation: what if an authority in another Member State, not having the same conception of freedom of expression as our own, imposed the withdrawal of certain content from hosting companies located in France? The European Regulation provides for such a situation and anticipates difficulties. Where an authority of another Member State requests the withdrawal of content from a hosting company in France, a qualified person designated within ARCOM may examine this injunction, on his own initiative, at the request of the hosting company or the person who provided the content. It may, if necessary, object to it. This role is assigned to ARCOM and not to the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL), because the bill takes note of the provisions of the Act of 24 August 2021 which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, giving the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel, the CSA – which became ARCOM on 1 January – new prerogatives in the field of online hatred. Some colleagues have expressed concern about the use of algorithms by hosting companies. On the one hand, neither the regulation nor the proposed law impose a remedy, quite the contrary. The aim of this regulation is not to establish algorithms for the preventive withdrawal of content, but only to ensure the withdrawal of those identified by the administrative authority. The TCO Regulation is therefore not part of a preventive but proactive approach. On the other hand, the hosting companies exposed under the Regulation, i.e. those identified by ARCOM as such by reason of a significant flow of terrorist content, are indeed obliged to put in place specific measures, left to their discretion. These measures may be of a technical nature, but not necessarily. Where this is the case, the Regulation provides for several safeguards: on the one hand, the technical measure must include appropriate and effective safeguards, in particular by means of human monitoring and verification; On the other hand, it must be effective, targeted and proportionate. By an amendment adopted in committee last week, I wanted to give effect to this obligation, by strengthening the prerogatives of access to ARCOM's information, so that this authority can ensure that it is respected by the hosts. In line with European law, the provisions of this bill have been worked out with all those involved in the fight against terrorism: they are fully balanced between efficiency and respect for freedoms. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know your total determination in the fight against terrorism and its propaganda: I have never doubted it. If there were any reluctance to adopt this text, I hope that all this clarification and our discussion of the amendments tabled will be able to remove the doubts and convince you of its real necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u92	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u93	Since 2017, France has been the scene of fourteen terrorist attacks: through these ignoble acts, it is our Republic and our values that are targeted. In a context of very high threat, the Government, at the request of the President of the Republic, has fully mobilized itself in the fight against radicalization and terrorism. This unwavering commitment of our services has led to thirty-seven attacks over the past five years. Since 2017, the Government has worked with great determination to strengthen mechanisms to combat the terrorist threat, in terms of human, budgetary and legal resources, for the benefit of all intelligence services, security forces and magistrates, who are fighting tirelessly. As you know, since 2017, we have made an unprecedented effort towards the specialized anti-terrorist services: a total of 1900 additional intelligence positions have been created. Investment and operating budgets for services have also been the subject of an unprecedented effort. Thus, we almost doubled the budget of the Directorate-General for Internal Security (DGSI) between 2015 and today. We have created the National Anti-Terrorist Prosecutor's Office (PNAT) to strengthen the anti-terrorist judicial strike force. The legal framework has also evolved to adapt. Indeed, the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as SILT, has introduced into the common law four administrative police measures resulting from the state of emergency, which have demonstrated their full effectiveness and relevance: perimeter of protection, closure of places of worship, individual administrative control and surveillance measures (MICAS), home visits. The same law has also made significant progress in intelligence activities. As I say again, the State's action focuses not only on terrorism and violent radicalization, but also on their land: Islamism and community withdrawal. At the end of 2019, in each department, we spread a departmental unit to fight against Islamism and community withdrawal (CLIR). In addition, the Minister of the Interior and I have developed a comprehensive strategy to combat separatism and Islamism, in particular with the law of 24 August 2021 confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, which is a major step. These advances must continue, in order to better understand criminals to the profiles and methods that are evolving, by adapting our tools. That is the purpose of this text, which I hope you will adopt. The majority of the threat-bearers detected in the last two years are not linked to structured terrorist networks, but are radicalizing and agitating in isolation, most often on the Internet: this is what, according to Gilles Kepel's expression, constitutes "atmosphere jihadism". Through the dissemination of extensive terrorist propaganda and the emergence of new electronic means of communication, terrorist acts are increasingly being perpetrated by individuals who are inspired by propaganda messages from terrorist organizations and disseminated on the Internet. These propaganda messages encourage the move to action by providing tutorials for their realization. However, individuals are not in visible or direct contact with terrorist organizations, networks or groups: they thus escape detection capability through targeted surveillance. The challenges of detection are therefore fundamental. That is why we have undertaken several actions: the valorisation of the number dedicated to the collection of alerts, of which I recall the importance, because everyone must feel concerned about the fight against terrorism; increased effort on online detection. The Ministry of the Interior has thus considerably increased the resources of the platform for harmonising, analysing, overlapping and guiding alerts, which has increased in one year from thirty-two to fifty-four agents; Since January its opening hours – once those of an administrative department – now make it available 24 hours a day and seven days a week – I pay tribute to its agents, exceptionally mobilized. Increased efforts have also been made to detect online practices, with the continuation of the technology of intelligence and automated processing of connection data. I say again, online radicalization is a danger. The terrible murder of Professor Samuel Paty and the first elements of the investigation have shown how, alas, young people are very easily radicalized and enlisted online on social networks, without ever having met anyone seen. In addition, the circulation of hate information on the Internet does not stop at national borders, and the European Regulation on combating the dissemination of terrorist content online aims to allow the withdrawal of such content within a maximum hour: in the absence of such withdrawal within the time limit, the platforms are subject to financial penalties of up to 4% of their turnover. In this regard, I would like to thank all those who have mobilized to achieve this major step forward. As you know, for the proper functioning of this system, independent authorities responsible for ensuring and monitoring the legality of the withdrawal of content are appointed by each Member State. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Mrs Bono-Vandorme's bill therefore aims to considerably strengthen our arsenal by adapting our national law to the European regulation on combating the dissemination of terrorist content online. I am convinced that it is a decisive tool in the fight against terrorism in France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u94	I have received from Mrs Mathilde Panot and from members of the La France group a motion to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u95	Of course, we are opposed to this text. You know our position, since we have already defended in committee an amendment to delete the single clause of the bill. Let us first look at the context and the political sequence in which we have been, for the past five years, in the area of surveillance and censorship on social networks. The record of the quinquennium is a cliquet effect, with more control, censorship and algorithms, but without any text guaranteeing more freedom in return, or giving more means to the various public operators – notably the CNIL – able to control the absence of drifts in this field. In this regard, the FI Group has fought against the law strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, allowing the transfer of powers from the judicial authority – an independent judge taking decisions with respect for the separation of powers and fundamental freedoms – to the prefect, in administrative matters. Second, the Military Programming Act 2019-2025 authorized the National Agency for Information Systems Security (ANSSI), under cover of protection against cyber attacks, to place probes on the networks, to analyze them. The record is mixed, in view of the latest attack on the Ministry of Justice. You will agree, the facts speak for themselves and there are probably margins of progress... The asylum and immigration law, defended by Gérard Collomb, also consisted of developing the registration of migrants, within the framework of Frontex, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, and related provisions. Thus, migrants – likely to be returned to their country of origin – are now registered at the place of the first asylum application. The same applies to unaccompanied minors. Other laws had the same objective. For example, the Anti-Manipulation of Information Act, known as the Fake News Act, which aims to monitor more closely what is happening on social networks, is highly questionable in that it is limited to electoral periods: justice does not have sufficient means to respond to the various requests. The European Copyright Directive, known as the Copyright Directive, which President Macron welcomed, has considerably increased the algorithmic treatment of online content. If you post videos on a number of social networks, you will be advised that their content is protected under copyright and that you cannot broadcast it, in violation of the legal provisions allowing for citing already existing content, for example as part of a report or criticism. Reality is a drift and a war with platforms, which do not answer you when they censor your content. For example, our colleague Bastien Lachaud posted a video on social media – on the YouTube platform – in which he opposed one of the texts on the health crisis: he was censored on the grounds that he was spreading false information. The Secretary of State for the Digital Transition intervened directly, but everyone, we understand, cannot involve a member of the Government in such cases. It is therefore freedom of expression and fundamental freedoms that are at stake: they are obviously not the prerogative of Members of Parliament, but of all citizens. I could go on like this for a long time. The decree authorizing the creation of an electronic means of identification, or ALICEM decree – online authentication certified on mobile – creates a digital identity based on a facial recognition system, contrary to the opinion of CNIL, which had in fact opposed such an obligation for digital identity. With the Health Data Hub, which centralizes medical data, we are breaking all records since it is about hosting this data on Microsoft servers. It would have to be a little naive to believe that the system is completely waterproof and prevents one or the other from drawing information from it. I would point out to you that health data is the information that is the subject of the greatest number of attacks by pirates because they are very expensive, especially on the black market – or less black. Of course, insurers and other private providers are very fond of it. The Finance Act for 2020 allows Bercy to use information published on social networks, allegedly to track tax fraudsters. It's obvious that yacht owners, to be very visible, publish photos of their boat on their Facebook page, which is open to the public! No need to consult the Facebook page of the big yacht owners to know they have one. The reality is that the data collected from everyone is kept for 30 days; and it should be believed that opinions, particularly political and trade union opinions, are filtered into this collection? While the law provides some guarantees, it is clear that the system, as it is applied in practice, does not stand up: when such a large net is used to capture information, one ends up violating fundamental principles, including the right to privacy. You have also introduced mechanisms to improve surveillance at the Paris Olympic Games, in connection with measures provided for in other laws. The law to combat hate content on the Internet has been censored almost entirely by the Constitutional Council. Good, that's normal. I do not know if we will achieve the same result once the new members are appointed; We will be discussing this in the Law Committee next week. While the law for comprehensive security that preserves freedoms has been censored by the Constitutional Council, you have recently returned to the burden with the law on criminal responsibility and internal security. The aim is to install cameras throughout the public space – there were already cameras on public transport – and to interconnect them with each other, especially with the pedestrian cameras carried by sworn agents. They allow images to be sent to command centres in real time for possible algorithmic treatments. For the time being, there is no question of facial recognition or file crossing, although: we have brought the matter before the Constitutional Council to compel it to take a decision on these provisions and to prevent you from doing anything, as was the case with the Criminal Liability and Internal Security Act, under which we can all be filmed by drones. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to smile constantly: you are filmed, so at the very least, smile, do not face. This is the society in which we live. The bill, a small text discussed at the end of the legislature, aims to impose on platforms the withdrawal of content of a terrorist nature within a period of less than one hour. This measure is based on a very good feeling; No one in this House is in favour of terrorism or is willing to encourage terrorists – and I hope so. So the question is not there. On the other hand, we can ask ourselves whether the scheme is effective and whether the law in force allows for another one. But the text contains a big hint. Madam rapporteur, you have wiped out our argument with a back of your hand...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u96	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u97	... by arguing that the Constitutional Council's decision of 18 June 2020 on the law to combat hate content on the Internet did not apply to this law, the provisions of which would have nothing to do with the partially censored law. In fact, the device, in its literality, is not exactly the same: the words used here are different and they are not placed in the same order, I agree. This looks like Sarkozy, when he had redecorated the European Constitutional Treaty by putting words into disorder; Despite this manoeuvre, the same text came out, as everyone knows. Nor can the analysis of the bill stand the test of the facts. The Constitutional Council considered, both in the area of child pornography and terrorism, that the granting of administrative powers to the hosting companies, in order to withdraw the content within the time limit of one hour without an independent judicial authority being able to pronounce itself at any time, constituted a disproportionate infringement of freedom of expression. Of course, you have removed the reference to child pornography content; But I am not sure that the Constitutional Council would judge the bill differently. It is precisely for this reason that we have tabled this motion of rejection. For once, we will not be able to make the usual trial of failing to respect the spirit of the motion of rejection, which is to demonstrate the unconstitutionality of a text. Indeed, it is flagrant here: open your eyes and look. I therefore restate my question: can we today, even without the European regulation, withdraw content of a terrorist nature, which incites hatred or apologies terrorism?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u99	Yes, because our laws, as well as the general terms and conditions of use of the platforms, allow it. As you said yourself, the rapporteur: the legislation allows terrorist content to be removed in 24 hours. So we will have a discussion about the deadline you want to reduce to one hour. In addition, the scheme is still part of an administrative procedure. In your place, I would have planned the intervention of the administrative judge at some point or, even better, that of the judicial judge to validate the procedure, not just to challenge it. Indeed, by the time you contest, the content will have been removed. Even in the context of an interim release procedure, you will have to produce evidence to support the administration's decision, which will argue that, in doubt, it preferred to act. In the meantime, it is freedom of expression that trins. The Regulation provides that any Member State may request a platform to withdraw content of a terrorist nature. You say that we may not have the same conception of freedom of expression as other countries; In other words, it means that we do not share the same definition of the word "terrorist": that is the subject. If that were the case, it would be obvious that the content should be withdrawn: no debate. Thus, a special procedure is introduced on the grounds that the content, which may be published in another country, is subject to interpretation as to its terrorist character. I am sure that if colleagues from Corsica were present, they would tell you that at different times in history, such or such a person could have been described as "terrorists"; and even today, administrative decisions are taken against militants in solidarity with the Kurds, considered terrorists by other European countries, who call on France to act against them. That's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u100	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u101	Freedom of expression cannot therefore be affected without numerous guarantees. I mean, why are we together? The rules, you say, apply immediately! In other words, we're wasting our time! This bill gives you the opportunity to talk again about terrorism, to put a little atmosphere back on? Is that the subject? Is that your political priority? You're asking us to remember Samuel Paty's abhorrent murder. This would be an injunction to vote on the text; All those who would not vote would therefore not be disgusted by this kind of ignoble act. Madam Deputy Minister, you recalled the findings of the investigation. Indeed, it revealed that people had reported to the PHAROS platform. The crash is therefore not due to the fact that the platform was not forced to remove the content within an hour, but to the lack of state resources to deal with reports made by people who know how to watch what's happening! That's what we know about the vile murder of Samuel Paty. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] It is therefore a bit of coffee, as the old expression says, to come to the figure some assassinations to order us to vote this text immediately, without thinking. No, we will continue to think, and we will do so with the help of La Quadrature du Net, which is doing an admirable job on this subject – I once again greet the members of this association who are of very valuable help. I hope that we can refer this text to the Constitutional Council and that it will do the work that the Council of State has not been able to do. The debate also concerns the transfer of certain powers from CNIL to ARCOM. You create new structures because the CNIL does not always render the opinions you expect; and you would like it to go differently. In fact, you can do this because you have set up a structure that will short-circuit the CNIL's previous action. With regard to your tropism of systematizing administrative procedures to remove the judiciary, your double speech is staggering. You explain that justice must be trusted, that justice is being repaired, especially because it has a historic budget, up 8%. This does not prevent you from arguing for its slowness and insufficient means to give priority to administrative procedures. You'd have to know! What I know, for my part, is that, in terms of guaranteeing freedoms, justice can be trusted more than administrative power. Moreover, the vaccination pass, the sanitary pass, the management of the protestors of the freedom convoys last weekend and the brutal way in which the yellow vests were treated by police officers show that you are following a bad slope; and this tiny text, icing on the cake of general surveillance and your love for the various and varied algorithms, is the last step. The regulation does not call algorithms into question. What are the platforms doing, as long as such performance obligations are imposed on them? They protect themselves against reports from the administration every hour! That would not be manageable. As a result, they anticipate a minimum with completely opaque algorithms or, worse, one that favours hateful or political content. However, for the state as well as for platforms, these content is not always "terrorist in nature", a fortiori when they target MPs, who, in some videos, are threatened by people who, armed with a weapon, mimic their murder because, it seems, it's funny – you see what kind of videos I'm referring to... Meanwhile, I remind you that the video of colleague Bastien Lachaud was censored, while he was saying nothing wrong, except on government policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u102	We'll have to conclude, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u103	I have 11 seconds left, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u104	He's not a member of the majority!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u105	Yes, it is. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In reality, we oppose this text because it is first unconstitutional, and then inappropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u106	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u107	I will not answer everything, because many very different subjects have been discussed. First of all, I thank the Member for his quick assessment of the Government's actions: even if his political group opposes it, it shows the extent of the work we have been doing since 2017 to combat terrorism, particularly online. I protest against what has been said about the assassination of Samuel Paty. No one, Congressman, throws anything in your face.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u108	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u109	This is a major event that has taken place under circumstances that need to be analysed very seriously, which we are doing with the support of the services. It is not a question for us to draw argument from this assassination to ask you to vote on the text, not at all: far from us such a way of thinking. We say that the alleged murderer, Mr. Anzorov, would have radicalized by watching videos on social media, without ever having met anyone. This sadly, tragically, illustrates Mr. Kepel's theory of atmosphere jihadism. It is for this reason that we have created a republican counter-speech unit. It allows all users of social networks to have access to a Republican speech, so that they do not lead to indoctrination or radicalisation. We are working on the soil of terrorism, on the period during which the person radicalizes before the act, which, alas, can be the result of the use of the Internet and social networks. [[Ms. Danièle Obono exclaimed]] Being of Corsican origin – even though I am not elected from Corsica but from Paris – I find the kind of amalgam that you have done quite shocking. The Corsicans, you claim, would say that anyone among them can be described as a terrorist. In Corsica, as elsewhere, when people are charged with terrorist acts, it is for this reason and not for another. We do not confuse political activists with terrorists: these are two very different things. Forgive me, but I claim to have a better knowledge of Corsica and its history than you do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u110	You're not a congressman!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u111	[[Mrs Danièle Obono again exclaims]] Don't cry, please! It's unbearable, we can't talk without you shouting. It's been five years, there's been so much!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u112	Yes, but yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u113	Let people talk and then you answer. We let you talk for a quarter of an hour without yelling.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u114	Mrs. Obono, please. Only the minister delegate has the floor, you are silent. You'll take it later.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u115	Yes, but we're in the assembly! We can still question people!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u116	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] Yes, but sitting in the House does not exempt you from respecting the rules, Member. Madam Deputy Minister, please proceed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u117	Finally – I still have a minute and thirty seconds – you invectivated us on the grounds that videos of your colleagues would have been removed from social networks. It is not the Government that deals with the moderation of social networks, which is still happy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u118	Not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u119	You receive a lot of threats on social networks, and I strongly condemn them; But we also receive them. Every day I receive rape threats, insults, photomontages, murder calls; I'm the subject of digital raids. Unfortunately, we all receive such messages every day. We report and file complaints, but unfortunately these messages are not always removed from social networks. However, this bill deals with a completely different subject: we ask platforms to take responsibility for terrorist content. The Government does not intervene in moderation. The proof of this is that we are very regularly victims of the words I referred to. You consider that the Government is responsible for everything that is wrong in our country, but the moderation of social networks is the responsibility of the platforms. That is why we have reactivated the permanent contact group at the Ministry of the Interior, which brings together the directorates of the main platforms and the departments of the ministry to demand that the platforms communicate information in the context of applications in order to carry out judicial investigations. Mr. Bernalicis, you stated that the alleged murderer of Samuel Paty had been reported on the PHAROS platform prior to the murder, implying that the responsibility of the PHAROS agents was engaged.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u120	No, yours!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u121	This is really unbearable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u122	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u123	Their work falls under my ministry; I would also like to pay tribute to them and to stress how false the words you have made are. You are very late for the information available on this survey! You took back information that was broadcast a few days after this terrible murder, but that was false: the alleged murderer was not reported to PHAROS. From the day after the assassination, I personally received the feedback from PHAROS, Matignon and Elysée; This indicates that there has been no reporting of threats of terrorist acts. Of course, tweets have been reported...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u124	You see!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u125	... with PHAROS, however, these reports were not about terrorist threats. If tweets announcing a specific terrorist threat had been reported, action would have been taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u126	Yes, but yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u127	On the other hand, it is true that calls from Islamist organizations promoting terrorism have been circulated on social networks. These organizations, which have been defended by politicians on some of the benches of this assembly, have nevertheless encouraged escalation and hatred, and have revealed personal information.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u128	Give names!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u129	Such events, of great gravity, take place very regularly on social networks. That is why we have dissolved in the Council of Ministers the Collective against Islamophobia in France (CCIF), which, however, continues to run its disastrous businesses on social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u131	We come to the explanations of vote on the motion to reject it beforehand. Mr Ian Boucard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u132	Terrorism is protective. The Internet and social networks are obviously part of this sphere, because they allow terrorist images to be disseminated and terrorists to be recruited, so the fight against this phenomenon must be concerned. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] As the Deputy Minister and Mr. Bernalicis have pointed out, during this Parliament you have drawn up numerous laws to combat terrorism. However, excessive legislation does not guarantee their relevance or results. We gladly agree that this bill is useful. That is why we will vote against the motion put forward by our colleague, who may have applauded a little too quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u134	I'm withdrawing my applause!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u135	However, the substantial amount of legislation that was drafted and passed during this legislature has not been effective in combating terrorism. Very poorly written laws have been passed by this assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u136	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u137	We warned you. Thus, the law to combat hateful content on the Internet, the Avia Act, was almost totally censored by the Constitutional Council because it was very poorly written and its contours were not sufficiently defined. We had alerted you collectively but, as usual, you had not listened to us, hence the constitutional censorship. [[Mrs Aude Bono-Vandorme, rapporteur, acquiesce]] The contours of the bill we are looking at are more precise: it is intended to remove terrorist statements. It has the merit of being clear; We can therefore hope that this bill will overcome the obstacle of the Constitutional Council. As has been recalled, this text aims to adapt French law to the European regulation on combating the dissemination of terrorist content online, which will enter into force on 7 June 2022. [[Mrs Constance Le Grip applauds]] Because the fight against terrorism is one of our group's priorities and because it seems to us that this bill, without being extraordinary, will be useful, we will vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u138	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u139	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Bernalicis, I do not hide from you that you have lost me a little with your motion of rejection. You listed a very large number of topics, but very few were relevant to the bill. Thank you for taking stock of all the action we have taken and for which we have taken full responsibility. But what does this rejection motion hide? Since the beginning of this legislature, you have consistently refused to participate in the fight against online hatred, online racism, and, with the bill we are considering, against the dissemination of terrorist content. This is the fruit of your action. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] You say you want to keep thinking. Keep thinking, talking and tweeting! As for us, we will continue to act to protect our fellow citizens, to fight terrorism and against online hatred, against behaviors that, if they are not accepted in real life, must also not be accepted on social networks or on the Internet. We will therefore vote against this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u140	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, and in particular, ladies and gentlemen of France, it is inconceivable and truly unacceptable that the Internet can still be an area of lawlessness where the most violent individuals and groups can spread their hatred with impunity. It is intolerable for terrorists to be able to call for crime, to claim their actions or to apologise for violence without the law intervening to protect our fellow citizens. It is more than time to truly empower the major platforms with regard to the content they convey. We owe it to the victims of terrorism as well as to all those who would be exposed to this type of content, especially to the younger ones who are particularly vulnerable. As you know, as you do from a certain point of view, the Democratic Group is particularly committed to defending and respecting the rule of law. For this reason, it is necessary to prevent the dissemination of violent, illegal and terrorist content, which is nothing but a profound misuse of freedom of expression. It is also for this reason that we are attentive to compliance with the constitutional requirements governing orders for withdrawal by an administrative authority. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The Group of the European People's Party, for its consistency and for the sake of acting responsibly, will obviously not vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u142	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u143	I would like to defend this motion of rejection brilliantly put forward by Ugo Bernalicis and recall some facts that the deputy minister and the members of the majority may have forgotten. Through this motion, we support the demands of many human rights organisations at the French, European and international levels, which, since the beginning of the legislature, have called for, alerted and even condemned the setbacks in fundamental rights and freedoms that you seem to be very proud of, since you welcome the very long list of security laws which, in truth, do not further protect the population but certainly trample on these fundamental rights and freedoms. Once again, I invite all those following these debates to consult the sites of Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International, the United Nations and the High Commission for Rights and Freedoms, but also the fight against terrorism. You do not guarantee better protection for citizens, but you question their fundamental rights and freedoms. The best way to combat terrorism, to avoid its online dissemination as well as the passages to action, is to devote resources to human intelligence – Bernalicis has given examples. Since the beginning of this Parliament, particularly in the debates on the budget texts, we have consistently emphasized this dimension. We believe that there is a need to develop a rational policy to combat terrorism, to stop the unworthy use of the crimes that take place and, instead of trampling on fundamental freedoms, to strengthen them. We believe that in a more inclusive society, where social ties and trust are strengthened, we are better protected and confronted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u144	Thank you, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u145	And, to end up on the internet, there are ways to frame...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u146	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u147	In the general debate, Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u148	Let's go back to the discussion where we left it right now. You do not see the link between the policy you have conducted and the algorithms that are unfolding on the platforms. The current mode of operation provides for injunctions that can be well-intentioned and useful in moderation of content, but it encounters the fact that masses of data and messages are broadcast on social networks, and that their quantity may even be exponential. You ask the platforms that there is less hate content, so the platforms are organized. They face an alternative: entrust moderation to human beings or algorithms. Indeed, they can hire human beings to do moderation, but this choice is expensive, and therefore it does not correspond to their objective of profitability: they want to collect as much data as possible and then sell it to other types of providers, finance sponsored content, etc. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Frances Haugen has shown that the algorithms used by Facebook favour the most violent content, which are not necessarily illegal content, which may be at the border of legality, but which, being violent, hateful, prone to caricature and outburst, obviously provoke more negative and positive reactions. An internal study on Twitter that has been made public results in the same results. The Government has a responsibility in this situation: you legislate to institute injunctions without a public service capable of controlling algorithms and without including in the law an obligation to make algorithms public and transparent. It's obvious that it's your responsibility! Why are we fighting? An old battle between Free Software and Internet activists is the interoperability of platforms, a subject on which we had tabled an amendment that was declared inadmissible. The aim is to require platforms to structure content so that other platforms can access it. Platforms should not own the data they host; It is the person who has visited this platform who must always remain the owner of his own data and be able to transport them from one platform to another. You who like free and undistorted competition, this kind of system should please you! It is necessary to ensure that people are able to extract from places where there is hate content and where violent and potentially terrorist content is found. Moreover, terrorists are rarely recruited on Twitter; That's not exactly how it happens. Twitter, Facebook, big social networks are places where content is disseminated and contacts are established. Next, the preparation of attacks takes place on other types of platforms: on forums that are hosted and much less visible or on encrypted messaging, such as Signal or Telegram. To access it, our intelligence services bring added value because they can search and go to the nearest place. Thus, PHAROS had detected, not necessarily a desire to act, but a radicalization of Samuel Paty's alleged murderer. This could have served as a signal for intelligence services to look for what was behind it. That's what reporting is for! If you don't, what's the point? Do we have to wait, to question someone, for him to say, "Ah, I'm going to do something! "? What you're telling us doesn't make sense. Moderation is a human treatment. When algorithmic treatment is used, at the very least it must be public and transparent and fundamental freedoms such as freedom of expression and the right to privacy must be guaranteed. But you do not bring any of these guarantees. The unconstitutionality of your text is obvious! You give exorbitant prerogatives to the executive power without ensuring a priori control by citizens over the messages they send and without allowing a challenge within acceptable and reasonable time frames. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] Finally, we would fight terrorism more effectively, against the spread of terrorist messages online, by stopping making laws every four morning – which means valuing terrorists and giving them what they are looking for: a permanent exhibition – and by improving our discussions with the traditional media. Indeed, how do we know that terrorist attacks have been carried out? Because the media are talking about it, because we are debating in the House texts aimed at preventing them. In the area of intelligence and the fight against terrorism, acting without drums and trumpets remains the best strategy not to take our enemies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u149	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u150	Everyone agrees that the growth of the Internet and social networks is conducive to the freedom of expression of an increasing audience worldwide. However, this is accompanied, like any change of scale, risk and danger. It must therefore be admitted that this technology, if it facilitates communication, can also be exploited for the purposes of violence, hatred – especially for terrorist purposes. We are fully aware – we have experienced this – of how terrorists can use the Internet to plan and finance their actions, but also to recruit and train new members, communicate, seek or recognize possible targets, spread propaganda and incite others to commit terrorist acts. We therefore fully share your will to combat terrorist content on the Internet, in all its forms and manifestations. Beyond this agreement, our views diverge on how to carry out this struggle. And if I thank you, Madam rapporteur, for the clarifications that you have tried to give, I would like to remind you of some of our colleague's comments. A European regulation is directly applicable in the domestic legal order and national authorities must ensure that it is properly applied. We therefore consider that it was up to the Government to make the necessary adjustments to implement the European regulation on combating the dissemination of terrorist content online, in the context of a draft law preceded by an opinion of the Council of State and an impact assessment, especially since this regulation has been challenged at European level by many associations. Its central purpose is to impose on the platforms, within an hour, the withdrawal of terrorist content. This provision is problematic in several respects. On the one hand, the text does not itself define what terrorist content is: it refers to a 2017 directive that proposes a very broad list. This is a pity because such a definition would significantly improve the effectiveness and validity of a withdrawal decision. The precise identification of the word would guarantee a result. On the other hand, given the time required for platforms to respond, they will be strongly encouraged to deploy automated content moderation tools, such as download filters. This increased automation may eventually lead to the deletion of content that is merely a matter of democratic debate. In addition, the withdrawal order may be issued by the authority of any Member State to any service provider present in the European Union. This transnational field of application is alarming to us in view of the failure to respect the rule of law and the serious and repeated violations of press freedom by certain Member States of the Union, such as Poland or Hungary. Finally, it should be noted that the European Regulation and this draft law do not take into account the decision of the Constitutional Council of 18 June 2020 on the law to combat hateful content on the Internet. Indeed, the Council has censored several major provisions of the law known as Avia, in particular on the ground that the obligation to withdraw provided for is not subject to the prior intervention of a judge or to any other condition. However, the provisions laid down here, which contain exactly this mechanism, are not legally sound. Only the judge offers all the guarantees of competence and impartiality to rule on the illegality of a content. That is why we believe that the role of the judge is fundamental in any mechanism to combat terrorist content, to protect victims and to provide the necessary guarantees of independence from both the platforms and the executive. In these circumstances, we will abstain. Indeed, the text still suffers from shortcomings which can undermine its usefulness, a usefulness which we want to see fully and completely.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u151	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u152	The bill is part of the continuation of the work that has been carried out since 2017 to combat dangerous content on the Web: I am thinking in particular of the law aimed at combating hate content on the Internet – defended by our colleague Laetitia Avia, whom I am replacing today and which I welcome and thank for his work – as well as the adoption, within the framework of the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, of an amendment aimed at anticipating the legislation on digital services examined at European level. Regulation (EU) 2021/784 of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating the dissemination of online terrorist content was adopted on 29 April 2021. In particular, it provides for the possibility of obliging online services to delete content of a terrorist nature in less than an hour upon an order from an administrative authority. Since the regulations have direct effects, our domestic law needs to be adapted to make them applicable. This is the purpose of the bill advocated by the La République on the move, at the initiative of Aude Bono-Vandorme, which I thank very much for this contribution to the fight against dangerous content on the Internet. The subject is important in view of the reality of the terrorist threat through digital tools and usages, since the Internet is a place of both indoctrination, exhibition, advocacy and propaganda in terms of terrorist content. Let us recall the killing of Christchurch, the murder of Samuel Paty and all the cases dealt with daily by the anti-terrorism cells and by Viginum, the service of vigilance and protection against foreign digital interference. This text gives us the weapons we need to fight against content that spread with virtuality on the Internet, as well as on more secret, reserved, but equally dangerous sites. This is the logical follow-up to the discussions at European level. We had already had the opportunity to debate this at the time of the discussion of the bill to combat hate content on the Internet, which I said was presented at the initiative of our colleague Laetitia Avia. A provision was then included to force the withdrawal of these contents in one hour, the so-called golden hour rule, but censored by the Constitutional Council on the grounds of insufficient safeguards. The bill takes these elements into account. The single article thus provides for four adaptations of national law, by adding four articles to the law of 21 June 2004 on confidence in the digital economy. These four adaptations are designed to empower the Audiovisual and Digital Communication Regulatory Authority to issue the cross-border withdrawal order provided for in the European Regulation; to specify the criminal penalties applicable to providers of internet hosting services that do not comply with the obligation to withdraw content of a terrorist nature; putting in place administrative and financial penalties for failure by providers of internet hosting services to comply with due diligence obligations; provide for remedies available to Internet hosting service providers against an order for withdrawal. This is important because it provides the necessary constitutional guarantees. Thus, an appeal to the judge is possible and supervised within a very short period of time, in accordance with the principle of reasonable time, in addition to the ordinary proceedings which of course remain applicable. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The work in committee provided useful clarifications and discussed, in particular, the level of penalties that can be applied as a percentage of turnover and the effects of appeals. The text before us therefore seems to us to be balanced and consistent with the other texts on the subject. The La République en marche group is fully supportive of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u153	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u154	We are looking at the proposal for a law adapting various provisions to European Union law in the area of preventing the dissemination of terrorist content online. With regard to terrorism, the Internet and the protection of our compatriots, we cannot wait. Unfortunately, we have not finished discovering and measuring the effects of the Internet on the activity of criminal and terrorist networks. The Internet, which ignores borders, challenges us and presents particular threats because of its virality on a global scale, to the point of leaving legal loopholes and creating jurisdictional conflicts; In addition, it allows recruiters, radicalized individuals who apologies for terrorism, to communicate easily wherever they are. During the Islamist terrorist attacks in Europe between 2015 and 2018, we saw the major role played by the Internet, by the various platforms in the dissemination of terrorist content, in the creation of this "atmosphere jihadism" brilliantly described by Gilles Kepel; and we have seen how the Internet has, in some respects, facilitated the commission of terrorist acts and, then, apologies for these atrocities. The online sharing of terrorist content contributes to the radicalization and hatred of our values. It was therefore high time to make the fight against the spread of these content a priority both at European and national level and to adapt our law accordingly. This is what the European Commission has done by presenting in March 2018 a recommendation on the measures to be taken to combat effectively the downloading and online sharing of terrorist propaganda. By imposing a minimum of vigilance obligations on providers of hosting services, including certain specific rules and constraints, as well as obligations on Member States, the proposal for a regulation that the European Commission subsequently presented in September 2018, in order to give effect to the proposed measures, aims to increase the effectiveness of the existing provisions aimed at detecting, identifying and suppressing terrorist content online, without, however, and this is important, trampling on our fundamental rights – in particular freedom of expression, freedom of information. In the area of terrorism, let us always bear in mind that it is not by undermining our principles that we will ensure their promotion and triumph.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u156	The German Presidency of the Council of the European Union has completed the negotiations leading to the adoption of the regulation, which is not to transpose, but to adapt to our national law by incorporating certain provisions. As a result of this regulation, Internet companies may be forced to delete content of a terrorist nature within an hour, following an order from an administrative authority. This rapid withdrawal had already been envisaged during the consideration of the Avia bill to combat hateful content on the Internet – that was said – but it had been censored by the Constitutional Council. Today we are in a different situation. Companies may also have to take measures, the choice of which is theirs, to prevent the dissemination of terrorist content on the Internet. The European Regulation empowers the competent national authorities to order the removal of terrorist content, regardless of whether the company's headquarters are located in the European Union or not. The proposed law therefore adapts certain provisions of our national legislation to the great effort to combat the dissemination of content of a terrorist nature desired by Europe and precisely explained by the European regulation. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Today, like last week in the Committee on Laws, our group has the same a priori in favour of this text. We see the urgent need to use all the levers and tools needed to combat terrorism, particularly Islamist terrorism, which has so much bereaved our country. We will therefore vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u157	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u158	Paris, Brussels, Nice, Vienna... Since 2015, the terrorist attacks that dramatically hit Europe – and especially France – have demonstrated the exponential use that is made of the internet and social networks. Jihad and the apology of terrorism spread online, terrorists enlist their new recruits and the Internet acts as an extreme facilitator of propaganda. While platforms can, of course, engage voluntarily in the fight against online terrorism, we cannot, of course, be satisfied with it and remain there. As early as 2014, French legislation strengthened the provisions relating to the fight against terrorism and established, and then expanded and strengthened, year after year, a single administrative mechanism for blocking and dereferencing content of a terrorist and paedophile nature. But France and the European countries dramatically affected by terrorism cannot act in isolation. The European Union has therefore seized the matter. In March 2018, the Commission adopted a series of recommendations to effectively combat illegal online content. After several months of negotiations, these recommendations led to the regulation of 29 April 2021 on preventing the dissemination of terrorist content online, also known as the TCO regulation. We are absolutely convinced that the regulation of digital technology, particularly with regard to the issue of terrorism, can only be done at European level. The pooling of resources between States is of paramount importance. Only Europe today has the necessary weight to fold the big platforms and ensure compliance with our rules, and it is with our European partners that we need to move forward on this issue in order to really act. The TCO regulation, which will come into force on 7 June, is undoubtedly an additional stone to this building. It makes it possible to harmonise the means of combating radicalisation within the European Union, while preserving freedom of expression and information and the pluralism of the media. While certain provisions of this regulation are already included in our legislation – thanks in particular to the measures we have adopted in recent years through various texts – and although it is directly applicable in French territory, there are still some provisions that need to be adapted to ensure its full effectiveness. This is the case of the possibility opened by the regulations to require platforms to withdraw terrorist content within the hour. We all have in mind the bill proposed by our colleague Laetitia Avia, who, in order to combat hatred on the Internet, provided for a similar provision for the withdrawal of content of a terrorist or paedophile nature, which the Constitutional Council had considered excessive with regard to freedom of expression. However, the Council agreed on the very principle of the withdrawal order, stressing that the dissemination of content causing the commission of terrorist acts, or by apologies, constitutes an abuse of freedom of expression and communication which seriously undermines public order and the rights of third parties. We all share here the urgent need to combat extreme online violence, which continues to spread. I would also like to point out that the bill before us is in a context different from the one in which the Constitutional Council issued its decision. It is based on a European regulation which is also directly applicable in our territory. It is this regulation, and not the bill, that provides for the principle of an order for withdrawal. The proposal is intended only to enable its effectiveness by designating an administrative authority competent to issue injunctions and by assigning new powers to the Authority for the Regulation of Audiovisual and Digital Communication. It also introduces criminal and administrative penalties in case of non-compliance, which is obviously essential to ensure the application of European law. It is not only about respecting our international commitments and our credibility with our partners, but also about maintaining digital public order. It should also be noted that some of the guarantees mentioned by the Constitutional Council are provided for in the Regulation; This is the suspensive nature of the appeal to the judge and the definition of terrorist content. However, we stress the importance of our legislation remaining consistent with the future Digital Services Act (DSA), which is expected to provide new platform regulation solutions. [[The rapporteur applauds]] We are convinced that France will be able to conduct the necessary negotiations within the framework of its presidency of the Union and that this will lead to ambitious and effective legislation on the subject at European level. Our determination to fight terrorism is complete. As you will have understood, the Democratic Group fully supports this text, which will, in line with the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic promulgated last August, limit online abuses, strengthen the protection and security of our citizens and prevent the Internet from becoming a non-right zone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u159	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u160	The draft law declines the European regulation of 29 April 2021 aimed at combating illegal statements of a terrorist nature, which call for the use of violence, including physical violence, or murder. In December 2020, the European Parliament and the Council reached a final agreement on a regulation requiring the withdrawal within a maximum period of one hour of reported terrorist content within the Union. According to the Regulation, "Given the scale of the problem and the speed required to effectively identify and remove terrorist content, the adoption of specific effective and proportionate measures is an essential element in the fight against online terrorist content". Social networks are now regarded as a privileged tool for propaganda and recruitment by terrorist networks. With this regulation should be guaranteed that what is illegal offline is also illegal online. With regard to platforms and hosting companies, they are asked to act in time and to be sufficiently transparent about the measures put in place, otherwise they will be exposed to sanctions decided by the Member States that have requested the withdrawal of terrorist content. With a view to the internationalisation of the fight, cross-border orders for the withdrawal of content must also be possible. The Regulation does not provide for a general monitoring obligation for platforms or for the use of automated filters. But we will come back to it again, it does not frame it either, which raises a question. A priori, content of an educational, journalistic and artistic nature is excluded from the text. The latter tends to give ARCOM jurisdiction to issue injunctions and to decide on administrative and criminal sanctions. In this regard, our group would like to share with you, colleagues, three observations; Many were born from the discussion we had in committee last week. On the merits, the administrative authority in charge of compliance with the legislation may decide on pre-commissions and injunctions, as well as possible penalties for offenders. There is thus an analogy with the proposed law censored in 2020 by the Constitutional Council: this text, which aimed to combat illegal online content – child pornography or terrorists – gave jurisdiction to a single administration to assess the manifestly illegal nature of the content and to request its withdrawal within the hour, without any real possibility of suspensive appeal. With the text we are debating today, the Law Committee has developed a form of gradation of preventive measures by establishing a pattern of successive warnings – with a pre-sentence order – and by linking the severity of the sanction to the seriousness of the breaches and their repeated nature. This text differs from the previous draft law, in particular in that the penalties imposed on the hosting companies take into account the repeated nature of the infringement, and in that the final decision can be appealed. However, this bill presents a challenge and a risk, as it is very likely that platforms and hosting companies will be anxious to avoid any content that they believe to be terrorist, using algorithms. The Socialist and Related Group therefore intends, by way of amendment, to give competence to CNIL – also an independent administrative authority – to control the setting and implementation of algorithms used by access providers for the purpose of automatically deleting content whose non-deletion is likely to give rise to the imposition of the sanctions provided for in this text. We hope that the majority of our colleagues will join in this measure aimed at preventing automated censorship, without awareness or proportionate and detailed appreciation. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] On the form, we regret that our Assembly was not able to have any assessment or comparison with the measures taken by other countries of the European Union, which could have contributed to our reflection and possible harmonisation of the applicable rules. In addition, the text is reviewed in accordance with the expedited procedure, while the ordinary procedure remains, under the Constitution, the norm. As we have seen, the time for discussion is useful: it allows us to improve the projects and proposals we are discussing. For these reasons, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u161	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u162	A week ago, in the Committee on Laws, we referred to this bill and recalled the extent to which we were facing a massive increase in propaganda with terrorist content. Let us not be naive, we have fully understood that terrorist organisations seize the internet object, social networks and platforms to incite a number of our fellow citizens to commit attacks, even sometimes even to publish instructions for use with the aim of doing as much damage as possible and, in a way, also to make the apologies of the attacks carried out. This bill of course seeks to preserve public safety by reducing the accessibility of terrorist content. The strength of the text is, of course, to appropriate the European definition of the famous content of a terrorist nature, less restrictive than that which prevails today in French law. Its flagship measure is to impose the withdrawal of terrorist content within one hour of the administrative authority's injunction. A week ago, in the Committee on Laws, we had strong debates on the constitutionality of this system. These debates, and the fears that have been raised, are legitimate at a time when a previous bill on hate content, defended by our colleague Laetitia Avia, had been censored by the Constitutional Council. But the relevant arguments of the rapporteur have led the group I represent today, to act together, to vote in favour of the operative part. The first of these arguments is that the application, or transposition, of provisions coming from a European regulation implies that the Constitutional Council is a little more flexible in its assessment. The other argument, perhaps most important, is that the expression "terrorist content" is much more objective, much clearer and much more framed than that of "hate content". Our group understands, of course, tensions and concerns about the preservation of fundamental rights. Let us recall the provisions that make it possible to guarantee them in this bill. First, with regard to cross-border withdrawal orders, ARCOM will have the power to carry out a thorough examination of those issued to it by another State. The purpose of this review is to determine the regularity of the application and its compatibility with the fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Charter of the European Union. It is, of course, justified by the existence of sometimes different definitions, depending on the country, of freedom of expression and even terrorism. As for the hosts and providers of content targeted by the measures of the bill, they will be able to challenge the blocking before the administrative judge. The appeal may be lodged within 48 hours and the decision shall take place within 72 hours. The battle against terrorism and terrorist propaganda requires the commitment of all actors: authorities, of course, but also providers and hosting sites. Welcome the action of the seal keeper on this subject; the national centre for combating online hatred set up within the Paris Public Prosecutor's Office, in particular, with the aim of centralizing the handling of the most significant and complex cases, has already demonstrated in a few months its effectiveness and usefulness. The Act of 24 August 2021 confirming respect for the principles of the Republic, which aims to combat separatism, provided this national centre with additional tools: the offence of endangering the lives of others through the dissemination of personal information and, above all, the possibility, in case of flagrante delicto, of making immediate appearances, hitherto impossible under press law. Finally, in order to eradicate this propaganda, European collaboration is vital: I welcome the fact that a few days ago, in Lille, the keeper of seals and his counterparts tried to strengthen it by means of a clear definition and framework, with a view to forcing the platforms of Google, Twitter or Facebook to collaborate with the judicial services of the Member States of the European Union. This bill complements the efforts we have been making since 2017 on the issue of terrorism while achieving a balance between the fight against terrorist content and respect for the fundamental rights to which we are all committed in this House. That is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u163	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u164	The chairman of the committee can testify to this, during this Parliament, we have very often had the opportunity to mention the increasingly important place of new technologies, including a terrible drift against which we must absolutely fight: the proliferation of terrorist content on the Internet. It must be borne in mind that the attacks on our soil in recent years have often been rooted in intense digital propaganda, which goes so far as to make life in certain war zones in the Middle East and to compare the surroundings of Raqqa in the Caribbean: the preachers' speeches ultimately create only illusions intended to destabilize young people in search of meaning. Like the other members of my group, I therefore welcome the fact that we are now considering this bill that sets out the European regulation to remove terrorist content from the Web within an hour. We should also welcome the initiative of the European Commission, which finally uses the existence of the internal market to take effective measures for the safety of our compatriots: 27 states, representing 450 million citizens, are easier to impose virtuous regulation on digital players. In a Europe where everything flows freely, people and ideas alike, we cannot afford to separate our responses to those who threaten us on a country-by-country basis. France is well placed to know that the exchange of information and international assistance are indispensable in the face of malicious acts sometimes planned across the world. However, this European initiative also raises questions about the extent of the response provided by this mechanism. Like a number of us, I wonder whether an administrative authority alone decides, without a judge's control, from injunctions to platforms. Of course, the regulation seems to contain more safeguards than the law of 24 June 2020, which, due to our colleague Laetitia Avia, had largely been rejected by the Constitutional Council. However, Madam Deputy Minister, if you are so certain that the text does not contravene the Constitution, why have you given it the form of a bill, not a bill, which the Council of State could have validated before it was submitted to Parliament? Furthermore, as is regularly the case, we regret the delay in the adoption of the regulation in April 2021 from the examination of the text which will allow it to be applied. In the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, France once again shows that the application of European texts is not a priority for France: it is a pity. Finally, although its definition may have been clarified in discussions at Community level, the very concept of "terrorist content", used throughout the Union, does not leave me concerned, because of the wide interpretation that might be made of it by countries where freedom of expression does not necessarily constitute the norm and where the independence of justice can be threatened. The main purpose of expressing these few concerns is to invite us to collective vigilance regarding the implementation of the provisions that we are about to adopt. In addition to the monitoring planned after three years at European level, we will have to ensure that these measures do not lead to disproportionate infringements of freedoms. In any event, the IDU and independent group obviously welcomes any initiative that will enable us to combat the scourge of terrorism: we will therefore support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u165	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u166	The Internet has become an essential tool for terrorist recruitment and propaganda, especially for Islamist terrorism, which has tragically hit us on several occasions in recent years. We all saw it during the terrible assassination of Samuel Paty, who was designated as a target on social networks. It is therefore essential to combat the dissemination of terrorist content online, just as it is essential to combat any form of online hatred. Why would what is banned in the media or in public space be so easily accessible on the Internet? In this sense, the aim of this bill is more than commendable: to include in our law the provisions of the European regulation against the spread of terrorism online, adopted on 29 April. The latter provides, in particular, that the administrative authority may issue an order for the withdrawal or blocking of content to any host whose principal establishment is situated in the national territory and which must be carried out within the hour, subject to penalties. Where the administrative authority wishes to withdraw or block content hosted by a provider whose principal establishment is located in another Member State of the European Union, it shall apply to the competent authority of the latter, which shall have 72 hours to decide. With a view to combating the spread of terrorist ideas, the Libertés et territoires Group considers it crucial to empower content hosts, including large platforms, and access providers. However, the bill inspires reservations. On the one hand, as regards form, we do not have an impact assessment or the opinion of the Council of State, even though the subjects covered are very sensitive and affect our fundamental freedoms. On the other hand, on the merits, several texts – including the Avia law – have already tried to tackle the online dissemination of terrorist or hate content. If the regulation of the Internet is justified, however, the principle of proportionality in the matter of freedom of expression must be respected, and remedies must be provided to the judge so that the administration, or the platform in question, is not alone in deciding. That is why our group is concerned about the applicability of the provisions of the text and the risks that it, as well as the European regulation, pose to public freedoms. Thus, all the actors concerned claim that content hosts will not have the human resources to process requests for withdrawal or blocking within an hour, which they will have to comply with under penalty of heavy sanctions: they will therefore have to entrust moderation to algorithms. We therefore fear that the latter, which are still imprecise, will make unjustified or even preventive withdrawals. As Corsican militants – the subject has been mentioned – some of us know too much about amalgams: a Corsican, a Basque, an alterglobalist, whose activism is linked to history and the political situation, is not a terrorist in the sense of texts like this one. In order to avoid generalizations, an in-depth discussion would be necessary. Is it not too high a risk of seeing a restriction on online freedom of expression, for content that should not be affected? Moreover, since there is no prior control of the judge, only the administration will assess the illegality of the contents, which poses a substantive problem; For in a rule of law, it is up to the justice to decide. Several associations have told us that these provisions conflict with the decision of the Constitutional Council of 18 June 2020, censoring part of the Avia Act. Given that the bill is a real remake of the Avia Act, we would not be surprised if the Constitutional Council again considered such provisions to be a disproportionate violation of freedom of expression. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Ultimately, there is, of course, a need to act against the spread of terrorist content, but this must be done cautiously. In view of the content of this text, the members of our group remain at this stage somewhat sceptical about the respect of this balance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u167	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u168	I now call, in the text of the committee, the single article of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u169	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor to support Amendment No. 1, which deletes the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u170	I have indeed explained in the rostrum our opposition to the bill. The way you present things is inaccurate and rather imprecise: you use the generalities when talking about combating terrorism on the Internet, then you arrive without transition to social networks, which nevertheless represent only a fraction, however visible, of online activity. In reality, the organization of terrorism on the Internet is going through multiple channels! The very term Internet refers more widely to digital, new technologies: I spoke earlier about encrypted messaging, Telegram, Signal and others. The plans for the attack, the books referred to, taught us how terrorists found themselves in forums of innocent appearance, devoted to some anecdotal subject, whose comments they used to be detected neither by the intelligence services nor by outsiders. We need tools adapted to the circumstances: if you want to regulate what is happening on social networks, do so, at least, respecting rights and freedoms, which is not the case here. I will go so far as to say that it is not because the regulation has been voted on at European level that it should simply be turned down, foolishly, when it has been the subject of many debates and an adoption which was nothing unimaginable. Many states have challenged this, as well as the vast majority – if not all – of associations defending rights and freedoms. The French State could therefore make sure that it is in conformity with its basic texts, or even go further and refer it to the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in order to avoid its application in France, or at least to disproportionately affect our fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u172	The purpose of this amendment is to delete the single article, and therefore all the provisions of the bill. I think I have answered you at length in committee and sitting, but I would be happy to try again to convince you. The adoption of your amendment would weaken our legal framework: the proposed law has all the consequences of the TCO regulation, which will be applicable without transposition from 7 June. If we did not vote on the text, we would put France in contradiction with its European obligations and commitments. The summary statement of your amendment makes extensive reference to the Constitutional Council's censorship of certain provisions of the Avia Act – again, I have already replied. The bill draws the consequences of this censorship, since the physical perimeter has been changed. In addition, the European Regulation defines precisely the nature of content of a terrorist nature, and expressly excludes content of an educational, journalistic, artistic or research nature, as well as words of free expression or spoken in the context of public debate. This landscape therefore offers greater legal and factual assurance as to the content in question – especially since only the manifestly illegal content is concerned, as demanded by the constitutional judge. In the event of non-compliance with administrative obligations, the proposed law does not provide for immediate sanctions, but, first, a notice of formal notice. With regard to the withdrawal obligations, the first referral shall be subject to prior information from the host at least 12 hours before the injunction. Above all, and in order to answer a question which you have put in committee, the mechanism which we propose provides for the intervention of the judge, which the providers of content and hosting services will be able to take in the context of procedures which are confined within very short periods of time, with, moreover, the possibility to refer the case to the judge for preliminary rulings. Finally, you fear that hosts will use algorithms to identify problematic messages. Again, I think I have answered you: the European regulation does not provide for the use of such algorithms, since the hosts are free of the measures they apply to ensure compliance with their withdrawal obligations – they may be algorithms, but also human means: this is precisely specified. As I indicated at the presentation, the regulation provides for the related guarantees of proportionality, non-discrimination, surveillance and human verification. For all these reasons, I am against this deletion amendment, which I believe is neither justified nor appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u174	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u175	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u176	Since the European regulation will come into force on 7 June no matter what, why do you say that we will weaken our right if we do not vote on the bill? It doesn't make sense. What will we weaken, if the current law remains in force until 7 June, and if the regulation then applies? That would not place us in any contradiction. On the other hand, this new European law may conflict with our fundamental texts and the Constitution. I would point out that States can refer a regulation to the Court of Justice of the European Union: France would do so if it were to live up to the challenges of freedom of expression and fundamental freedoms. On the other hand, the most effective way to combat so-called terrorist messages on social networks is certainly not an injunction to withdraw within an hour from the administrative authority, a warning from the regulator, or what I know. In your logic, it is not the author of the censored message that is presented to the judge, but the platforms. Clearly, you have made your choice between platforms, citizens and their freedom of expression. There are profound contradictions in your approach. You reject the European regulation as if it were a directive, when there is no obligation to do so. In doing so, you push logic even further, on the pretext of establishing a more precise and efficient architecture; In reality, you want the filter role not to be the responsibility of CNIL but of ARCOM. In line with your previous laws, you make technical adjustments aimed at maximum administrative efficiency. What we want is not maximum administrative efficiency, but a maximum guarantee of respect for fundamental freedom: freedom of expression. It is on this condition that administrative means can be adjusted to eliminate discriminatory, hateful or terrorist content. Finally, while the regulation clearly defines terrorism, this definition remains subject to an interpretation, which is primarily political.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u177	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u178	If you had wanted to be the guarantor of fundamental freedoms, of the law and of the separation of powers, you would have placed the judicial judge at the heart of the mechanism. The purpose of this amendment is to entrust the judicial authority – and not the administrative authority – with the ability to require a platform to withdraw content in less than an hour. You will tell me that for this to happen, there would have to be a sufficient number of magistrates, and for once we will agree: we would have to put the double bites – even triple or quadruple – in order to reach a proportion of magistrates per capita comparable to that of Germany, which is twice as great as ours. As always, on the grounds that the judicial institution lacks resources, you prefer short administrative circuits that leave room for arbitrariness. It's not a supputation, nor a hypothesis on my part, but a finding. Throughout this legislature, as in the previous one, whenever the spectrum of administrative measures has been expanded, this has led to abuses, which have not always been contested within a reasonable time by the courts, particularly administrative ones. I prefer, first and foremost, to preserve fundamental freedoms by giving them the necessary means, rather than relying on short administrative channels that reinforce arbitrariness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u180	Although I have already answered these questions, I will repeat my explanations: we have provided a set of guarantees, which I have detailed in the presentation and in my reply to your deletion amendment. We have said this again: the proposed law allows hosting companies and content providers to refer the matter to the administrative judge in extremely short periods of time, which are combined with the application for interim relief under ordinary law. These provisions guarantee the right to an effective remedy, as provided for in the TCO Regulation. They also respond to your comment on the constitutional judge – and I would like to point out that the constitutionality review is not the same depending on whether it concerns a usual bill of law or a bill that merely brings the law into line with that of the European Union, as is the case here. Finally, I asked the national anti-terrorist prosecutor, during his hearing, about the specific point raised by your amendment. He confirmed to me that the appeal to the administrative judge did not raise any difficulties, either in substance or in form. For these reasons, my opinion is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u182	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u183	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u184	I do not share the opinion of the national anti-terrorist prosecutor. The respective boundaries of administrative justice and judicial justice are the subject of debate in the judiciary. Some believe that the new guardians of fundamental freedoms – and other freedoms – are the administrative judge and, ultimately, the Council of State. I do not think so, because I remain committed to the principle affirmed in Article 66 of the Constitution that the judicial authority – and not the administrative authority – is the guardian of individual and fundamental freedoms. Every time your government, like the previous ones, has instituted administrative procedures to the detriment of the judicial authority, it has increased the pedestal of the administrative judge, supposed to be the guarantor of a number of freedoms. This is an anomaly, because, even if both do their job well, the administrative and judicial courts do not benefit from the same statutory guarantees – I speak in any case for the seat, but the situation is different for the prosecutor's office; This is a representative of the prosecutor's office you interviewed. If you had preferred legal proceedings, you would have given the maximum guarantee. Let us imagine that jurisdiction has been entrusted to the judicial authority: the national anti-terrorist prosecutor would probably have seen no problem! He replied that it was not a problem to entrust it to administrative justice, but he would certainly see no difficulty – if not a lack of resources – in ensuring that jurisdiction falls within the jurisdiction of the judicial authority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u185	Mr Alain David has the floor to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u186	It is intended to explicitly provide for CNIL's control of algorithms used by access providers. Indeed, the proposed law could lead to excessive self-censorship in order to avoid any sanction, which would be detrimental to freedom of expression. It is therefore essential that CNIL be able to control these algorithms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u188	This amendment is satisfied with the mechanism that we are proposing. You want to give a control prerogative to CNIL. However, from 7 June, ARCOM will be competent in place of CNIL to carry out administrative blockages: Article 6-1 of the Law on Trust in the Digital Economy was amended to this effect by the Law of 24 August 2021, which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. This transfer of responsibility is due to the new jurisdiction that this text granted to the CSA – which became ARCOM on January 1, 2022 – regarding online hate. Both authorities ensure the same guarantees of independence and efficiency. I have heard from the CNIL and ARCOM: they have not told me of any difficulties in this regard. For the sake of consistency, the proposed law provides that ARCOM – and not CNIL – is also responsible for the removal of terrorist content, under the auspices of the TCO regulation. The single article allows this authority to monitor the measures taken by hosting companies to combat the spread of such content. Finally, you know, for having participated in the committee, that I wanted to strengthen this prerogative and ensure that it is fully implemented, by adding a paragraph in the bill providing that ARCOM is entitled, in order to carry out its tasks, to obtain all the information it considers necessary: this is in accordance with your amendment. I therefore propose that you withdraw it; If I don't, I'll give you an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u189	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u190	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u191	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u192	We have asked you several times about the algorithms. We can certainly ask the platforms to pass them on to us, but we still need to be able to deal with them. However, in the opinion of the independent structures we have mentioned, they do not have the technical and human capacity to exploit these algorithms. Moreover, the platforms themselves do not always know the effects of their algorithms, and call on other experts to identify them. Twitter has commissioned a firm to do this, and has had the audacity to publish the results. For the rest, we must wait for the intervention of whistleblowers, like Frances Haugen, to lift the veil. It was not the CNIL, nor the ARCOM that issued the alert and demonstrated that Facebook algorithms favoured hate messages – the far right messages, in reality – because they had more audience! As the only corrective measure, Facebook has degraded, in its algorithms, the visibility of all political content, whatever it may be. This mission must be sufficiently explicit, so as to devote the necessary resources to it. This could have already been done, but you don't. If you really wanted to preserve fundamental freedoms and combat hate online content, you would require platforms to introduce data interoperability in order to solve this equation in part and better control the algorithmic devices they use.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u193	On the proposal for a law, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u194	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, in support of Amendment No 3 on the additional article after the single article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u195	This amendment extends the discussion we have just had and aims at a wider control of algorithms used on the Internet, whether on social networks or in other areas. I would like to point out that algorithms are not reserved for Facebook, Twitter or YouTube, but are also used by government services – and this is even more frequent – and by private services. In this regard, you have introduced the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, to which I objected, which allows legaltech, i.e. law consulting firms, to carry out online legal expertise for the compulsory prior conciliation in civil disputes of less than 1500 euros. But we did not provide ourselves with the means to determine whether the algorithmic analysis of the data would produce undesirable bias. The same applies to the Decree on the creation of an automated processing of personal data, known as DataJust, which has been strongly contested by the trade unions of administrative and judicial magistrates and which raises questions as to the interpretation of information which might not always be used for better administrative organisation or for benevolent purposes. Let us stop thinking that since technology exists, it is absolutely necessary to use it. We can also set limits, provide controls or decide not to use them because their use would violate the fundamental rights included in the constitutionality block. The aim of this amendment is therefore to reaffirm the need to deconstruct the algorithms used by platform operators in order to identify their perverse effects and to force the platforms in question to correct them, because it is often discrimination biases which have little to do with terrorism but which pollute life in the community.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u197	[[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis smiles]] You are right, we are all aware of the drifts that algorithms can lead if they are not supervised. But I would remind you that the sole purpose of this bill is to transpose the TCO regulation. I therefore do not want to introduce other measures that would go beyond this limited framework, without an overall assessment or reflection. That does not mean that we are not acting. It is precisely because we are aware of these issues that the Digital Services Act will create transparency obligations for algorithms developed by online platforms. I invite you to read the reports already published on this subject. It is also for this reason that the regulation and the proposed law are particularly demanding with regard to content of a terrorist nature. I would like to make it clear that the TCO regulation already provides strong guarantees to prevent the abuses you mention: Article 5 of the regulation obliges hosting companies which use technical measures to provide guarantees, in particular by means of human monitoring and verification. In addition, I wanted to strengthen these guarantees by presenting last week in the Committee on Laws – you were also present – an amendment which was adopted, allowing ARCOM to request any information necessary for the fulfilment of its mission and to ensure that the obligations of proportionality and non-discrimination of the measures introduced by the hosting companies are respected. For all these reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u199	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u200	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u201	You have indeed added this provision, but it is embedded in your bill that only concerns content of a terrorist nature on platforms. Admittedly, by extension, ARCOM could request wider data, but the platforms would be entitled to challenge it by taking advantage, at random, of the law on the protection of business secrecy, which you have also adopted. The operation of the algorithm is often a well-kept secret, as it generates money for the platforms in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u202	It's a business case!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u203	This is revealed by the various reports we have read – or, in any case, by various and varied synthesises or analyses. Our amendment, which is relatively comprehensive, points to the potential biases of algorithms and why we are asking for information. It also specifies that platform operators must make the content of algorithms public in an intelligible and accessible way – they often pass the information in bulk by saying "get by" and you see only fire. I see colleagues acquiescing, because that's the truth. That is what the CNIL or ARCOM say, who cannot do anything about the information so transmitted. That is why it is necessary to draft the law properly. You would grow by recognizing that the administrative procedure can be in breach of freedoms and by providing, by balance, new guarantees to supervise algorithms. You don't even do it, which tells a lot about your intentions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u204	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u205	The aim is to request a report on the means available to the OCLCTIC. The French Judicial Police lacks resources: it has 5,600 officers out of the 120,000 police officers who train the national police; To give you an order of magnitude, 15,000 of them are assigned to the border police and 7,500 in the anti-criminality brigades (LAC). We should at least double the number of the judicial police – and I am not talking about public security. Central offices face difficulties in recruiting specialists on these subjects. The fight against narcotics is being overvalued, in particular – it is not Minister Darmanin who will say the opposite – which explains why it is hard to find in-house candidates ready to integrate the cyber, economic and financial channels. That's the reality. That is why the La France insoumée group is calling for a change in recruitment procedures – we will take care of it ourselves on 24 April. But if you wanted to adopt this amendment on an adventurous basis, it would allow us to obtain some elements without waiting for this deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u206	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u207	You know, my colleague, that the National Assembly is traditionally opposed to requests for reports.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u208	No, not the assembly! You!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u209	Such requests overburden state services without contributing to better information for Parliament. In addition, we are already able to deal with this subject within the framework of Parliament's prerogatives in the field of evaluation. In fact, the Law Commission regularly seizes – as you know since you are part of it – these subjects that are at the heart of its missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u210	Why does she not produce any report? Zero report in five years!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u211	As such, there will be nothing to prevent Parliament from establishing a law review mission in a timely manner...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u212	We'll take care of it after April 24th!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u213	...or to take up the specific subject mentioned in your amendment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u214	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u215	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 57 Number of votes cast 52 Absolute majority 27 For adoption 51 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u216	The next item is the debate on the bill, adopted by the Senate after the accelerated procedure, to change the governance of the French Education Agency abroad and to establish regional training institutes (No. 4975, 5029).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u217	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u218	Vauban, Chateaubriand, de Gaulle and Jules Verne are all names engraved on the front page of schools that, in Rome, Pretoria or London, embody French teaching abroad and spread our republican ideal of freedom, equality and fraternity to the four corners of the world. I still have in mind the memory of an exchange with young people from Vauban High School in Luxembourg, the day after the national tribute to Samuel Paty. These students spoke of secularism and praised the merits of this French critical spirit that has made our identity and reputation for centuries. The birthplace of the French spirit is the school of the Republic. The bill that you are considering today has no other ambition than to promote access to French education for French people established outside France and, at the same time, to develop an instrument of influence and influence that is the most powerful: the French school abroad. In March 2018, the President of the Republic presented the main directions of his policy in favour of the French language and plurilingualism. On this occasion, he set the goal of doubling the number of students enrolled in French educational institutions abroad by 2030. In order to achieve this ambitious goal, Samantha Cazebonne, then a member of your assembly, was given a mission of reflection aimed at developing an action plan, which allowed us to conduct consultations with the various stakeholders – representatives of teachers, educational communities, parents of students and former students – and to draw up a roadmap in October 2019, with Jean-Yves Le Drian and Jean-Michel Blanquer. Of course, the network of French education abroad, like many sectors around the world, has been hit by the pandemic. Nevertheless, for the past two years, he has shown resilience: he has resisted thanks to the mobilization of his staff, to which I pay tribute, thanks also to the commitment of the families who have maintained their trust and worked a great deal alongside their children, and thanks to the massive support of the State, within the framework of a global plan of 220 million euros in favour of the French settled outside France. Even better, not only has the network kept up, but it has grown: it now has 552 establishments, compared to 522 in 2019. This proves that the objective set by the President of the Republic is within reach. But it is important to build the means to reach it, using additional tools. From this point of view, the bill introduced by Samantha Cazebonne, now a senator, to change the governance of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger (AEFE) and to create regional training institutes is an important milestone that will allow the completion and deployment of this plan for the development of French education abroad. That is why this text should be adopted as soon as possible and as it stands, as your rapporteur recommends, the rest. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work done both by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National Assembly and by Samantha Cazebonne and the High Assembly. I come to the three main issues of the bill. The first concerns staff training. In order to create the conditions for a demanding growth of the network, it is necessary to maintain the quality of the teaching, of which it is DNA. Developing the network means attracting new families through a quality educational offer. That is why we need trained and qualified teachers, regardless of their status, i.e. whether or not they come from national education. It also involves valuing plurilingualism within this teaching. The creation of 16 regional training institutes will make it possible to increase the number of training facilities for the extension of the network. The second issue is the governance of the AEFE, in particular the place of parents of students on the board of directors. Since I am personally committed to this subject, I am pleased to see its legislative translation. I had wished to increase the number of representatives of the parents of students from two to four to express our gratitude to the families who trust this educational model, who co-finance it very widely through school rights and who actively participate in school life. I also welcome the admission to the Agency's Board of Directors, as experts, of representatives of former students. The proposal to invite a representative of French mother tongue associations (FLAM) to the board of directors is a good thing because it is a real gem: the 160 associations established in 38 countries allow children enrolled in local education to maintain a link with the French language. Finally, we welcome the proposal to include an additional French foreign adviser on the board of directors. The third challenge is to strengthen the Agency's role as a focal point for development. As you know, it has considerably strengthened the services it delivers thanks to the support and development service of the network (SADR) which, moreover, follows one third of the 100 registrations requested for the campaign 2021-2022. We have ensured that the AEFE is a party to the new system of granting State guarantee to real estate loans from partner and contracted institutions. As you know, this point had to be reviewed, however, keeping all the contribution resulting from the work led by the Association nationale des écoles françaises de l'étranger (ANEFE). In this regard, I salute Senator André Ferrand, who has long presided over this association, the torch having been taken over with talent by Senator Olivier Cadic. The new inter-ministerial commission for the granting of State guarantee will meet shortly to examine the first applications for guarantee. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, we can only support the adoption of this text as it is submitted to you so that its provisions come into force very quickly and that we can continue the good momentum of this network – some of which have existed for centuries – and thus bring quality knowledge in the context of this French education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u219	Mrs Anne Genetet, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u220	Today we are considering the bill, adopted by the Senate, to change the governance of the Agency for French Education Abroad and to create regional training institutes. If this text seems far from your subject matter, ladies and gentlemen, I want to convince you otherwise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u221	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u222	Yes, you have children in your ridings who will go abroad – please encourage them to join our network – or who come back, rich in a unique experience. The same applies to many teachers in your schools, colleges, high schools – I salute their commitment. In short, this text that is expected abroad also concerns you: it is part of the sequence opened by the President of the Republic in March 2018 during the presentation of the plan for the French language and plurilingualism. He set the ambitious goal of doubling the number of students welcomed into our network by 2030. There's eight years left.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u223	Target 2027!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u224	No, 2030! One more warrant!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u225	This text is the result of a very important work of analysis and consultation carried out by the author of the bill, Senator and former Member of Parliament Samantha Cazebonne, who had submitted to the Government in early 2019 a major report on the future of the French education network abroad. At the outset, I would like to stress that our French teaching network abroad is a formidable vehicle of influence and influence for France, especially for two thirds of foreign students, who will become true ambassadors of our country. The importance of this network has been stressed since the beginning of this legislature by the significant and growing means allocated to it, reflecting the unwavering support of the state. I would also like to take this opportunity to correct the incomprehension caused by a budgetary collective at the start of 2017 which had led to the cancellation of €33 million in appropriations. These were payment appropriations rather than commitment authorizations. In that year, the Agency balanced its accounts by anticipating school contributions for the following school year. Not a single teacher had then missed his position: it seems essential to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u226	Right! The facts are stubborn!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u227	Let me demonstrate how much the state has financially supported our network during the crisis and even before. Since the Finance Act for 2020, the AEFE grant has been increased by EUR 25 million, an envelope opened the following year to finance the network's facility security plan, amounting to EUR 9 million. All this was renewed in the original finance law for 2022, with the AEFE public service subsidy amounting to EUR 417 million, not to mention the amount allocated to scholarships and school grants which are crucial for this model. Finally, in response to the pandemic-related health crisis, a massive €150 million aid plan – to be reported to the Agency's budget of €417 million – was voted on as a matter of urgency in 2020 to help the network. These aids – this is a fundamental point – have been designed to meet the needs of both French and foreign families and all the institutions in the network, regardless of their status: direct management establishments, contracted establishments and partner institutions. With financial resources not doing everything, the drafting of the bill was necessary in order to enable the AEFE to play its role as the backbone of the French education network abroad, which it must support more than ever. As a reminder – the updated figures were provided to us a few days ago – the network now has 552 registered schools that attend 380,000 pupils, compared to 165,000 in 1990. So we've doubled the network in 30 years. I remind you that we have been asked to double it in eight years: you see, the challenge is immense. Among the changes taken into account by the text is the increasing role of families, since they finance the operation of the network by 81%. In response to this development, the proposed law increases the number of representatives of parents' federations on the Agency's board of directors from two to four. And to reflect the richness of the ecosystem that has gradually developed around the French teaching network abroad, former students as well as FLAM associations will also be represented on the future board of directors. Article 3 supplements the list of tasks entrusted by the legislator to the AEFE. In addition to the basic mission of public service for French children established outside France, the basic missions are educational cooperation, the dissemination of French language and culture, the grants and scholarships granted to families, and respect for the principles of inclusive school, to which is added with this text the role for the Agency of Advisory with the initiators of a new institution to help them develop their draft accreditation. I would point out that the granting of certification is not granted by the AEFE but by the Ministry of National Education, thus guaranteeing the quality of our teaching "to French". The second of the new missions created concerns the examination of the files of financing of real estate projects – this is a key element – submitted by the institutions under the new mechanism created in spring 2021 for State guarantee and intended to replace a system which was deemed to be legally unsatisfactory. I would like to point out that this new guarantee scheme, like the previous one, concerns only those institutions which have agreed and which are partners. For institutions in direct management, AEFE no longer has borrowing capacity and recourse to advances from Agence France Trésor is also called into question. This leads the Agency to be confronted with difficulties which justified the adoption in the Senate of an amendment introducing an additional article with a view to the submission to Parliament of a report on the possibility of authorizing the AEFE to borrow for the financing of real estate projects. This topic is crucial: Directly managed institutions contribute to the development of the network and limit the Agency's borrowing capacity could impact families through tuition fees. We must therefore remain vigilant to prevent such financial pressure from being exerted on families. Returning to Article 3, the new mission introduced by the Senate concerns educational innovation, which is one of the strengths of the network of accredited institutions, particularly in the field of modern languages. The fourth mission introduced in this text concerns teacher training, in close connection with Article 4, which aims to create the regional training institutes which the Deputy Minister has presented. These institutes, which will be sixteen, will be managed directly by the Agency. They will enable training needs to be met by being regionally closer to local realities. This focus on regionalized teacher training responds to the dynamic of network development, where the share of locally recruited staff will increase. Strengthening our training efforts is a sine qua non to ensure that the quality of our network is maintained and thus to meet the needs of our teachers, who are a pillar of it and who will never be thanked enough. The Senate introduced an amendment to bring together staff training and the defence of the Francophonie. This is a relevant link, but I would like to remind you that these courses will also have to be partially available in foreign languages – when you speak live language or non-linguistic discipline, you cannot teach German, Spanish, Arabic or Chinese in French – which are assets of our network. Finally, in addition to the report on AEFE's funding capabilities, the Senate has scheduled two more reports to Parliament. One concerns respect for the principles of the Republic, in particular secularism in the network. This is particularly important because our secularism is unknown abroad and difficult to explain, and therefore justifies the actions already implemented by the Agency as the network of lay correspondents. However, care must be taken to examine as rigorously as possible the variety of situations in the various institutions around the world. The second report deals with the social mix in the network and the reception of children of civil servants and military personnel stationed abroad. The social mix objective is supported in particular by the annual grants awarded to eligible families, the envelope of which has increased to EUR 108 million in 2020-2021. On this point, the State has always been at the rendezvous of applications for scholarships. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you in conclusion to vote, without any amendments, on this bill, which will allow for a series of advances to support our remarkable French teaching network abroad, on behalf of the children attending it, the teachers and administrative staff who lead it and the parents of students whose energy makes it possible to create new schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u228	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u229	This bill to change the governance of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger is interesting and makes it possible to address in our Chamber, as is too rarely the case, the subject of French education abroad. The AEFE is in the midst of a upheaval. The strong ambition proposed by the President of the Republic as early as 2018 to double the number of students by 2030 is a major challenge – but meeting a major challenge with constant mediums is an almost impossible mission... unless the growth of this network is based on private funds and on the increase of tuition fees, at the risk of distorting the essence of French education abroad, whose mission is to ensure the educational continuity of French children living around the world and to enable foreigners to benefit from the quality of our teachings. French education abroad, in 2022, is 375000 pupils, with a budget of 520 million euros coming from the State. This budget seems to be important, but it is a trompe l'oeil, because it is the triple, or about 1.5 billion euros, that is paid by families for the education of their own children. It is therefore quite interesting that Article 2 rebalances the importance of families on the AEFE Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u230	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u231	This symbolic rebalancing is all the more opportune as the State increasingly relies on these own funds for network growth. Communist MEPs denounce this situation, which creates very large disparities between institutions and countries, as funding will depend on the amounts families will be willing to pay for quality education and the cost of work in the countries concerned. Indeed, the massive self-financing of schools obliges them, in order to control their budgets, to limit quality education contracts and to propose cheaper and more precarious contracts, or even local contracts. Without prejudging the quality of the staff recruited, this practice still questions the values of a French-language public service underlying these recruitments. The risk is great, as my colleague Michèle Gréaume said in the Senate, that the AEFE will increasingly become a "exclusion machine", allowing only the most affluent French expatriates and the elites of the states in which these institutions are located to pay for such studies. Moreover, since we are talking about pupils, we remain quite puzzled about the proposal to value the networks of former pupils, whose representation has very little legitimacy and questions us about the real will that drives this system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u232	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u233	Will former students be used to increase the equity of these schools? We also wonder about entrusting AEFE with the management of regional training institutes located abroad. This question needs to be asked, because the network tends to be outsourcing, with an increasing number of institutions not directly managed by the AEFE, which again creates inequality. Communist MPs carry the ambition of a public service controlled by its users and by the state. We are wary of any rampant privatization of education, and all the more so since French education abroad is a major issue of influence diplomacy, as was stressed in December with the roadmap of influence of French diplomacy. As a result, France cannot leave this major lever of French influence in the world to private bodies, as this would reduce the impact of this public policy, which must make us proud. The bill we are considering is highly measured and does not aim to address the substantive issues that we have just raised. The GDR Group remains vigilant on this subject and aware that there are major challenges ahead, and will vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u234	Mrs Amélia Lakrafi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u235	The question of French education abroad is central to our citizens and businesses outside France. I therefore welcome the review of this text proposed by our colleague Senator Samantha Cazebonne, which aims to reform the governance of the AEFE and to create the IRFs, or regional training institutes. INSEE estimates the number of French people in international mobility to be 3.5 million, with very different profiles depending on the countries in which they are located. Some only transit for a few years before returning to France or chaining with a mission to another country – I am thinking of the agents of our services abroad, but also of the expatriate entrepreneurs that I meet at each of my trips. Others are established in a more sustainable country because they have made their lives there or started a business there. They are all keen that their children should be able to attend a French school, in order to maintain a link with France and the culture of our country, and to be able to be reintegrated into the French education system at any time. The presence of French schools is a real asset for our companies located abroad, as it is a sine qua non of attractiveness to be able to bring their employees with the family. The existence of the AEFE network also has a significant impact on our economic presence abroad. In addition, the proportion of foreign students in these institutions is significant and is then found in our universities, research institutions, businesses or key positions in their home countries. The AEFE network thus makes a major contribution to France's attractiveness and its worldwide reach. There are 552 establishments in this network. Given the diversity of their statutes and the contexts in which they are located, it is natural that the system should be regularly called upon to evolve. The purpose of this bill is to enable the development of this network and to ensure its viability, by improving its functioning and governance, two essential aspects of the text on which I will focus. First of all, I welcome the best representation of parents of students on the Agency's Board of Directors. Indeed, during my travels, I have always met parents involved, concerned about the proper development and functioning of the school in which their children are schooled, attentive to the pedagogical quality of the courses. Their voice must count and I welcome this development. I also welcome the presence on the board of directors of a representative of former students' associations. Secondly, the quality of education is a major concern of parents in a context in which not all teachers in the high schools of the network come from national education. The emphasis placed on the training of teachers and staff in this bill, with the introduction of IRFs, is an appropriate response. I therefore support this text, which will enable the Agency to establish an ambitious policy in this area and to change the scale. Our French high schools already have an impressive level: from Dubai to Libreville to Cairo, Tananarive and Beirut, the results at the baccalaureate level are exceptional every year. This reform will consolidate this excellence. I would also point out that these trainings will benefit all teachers and staff of French high schools, so also those recruited locally, who may have to work in their national education system. It is therefore a contribution by France to these countries in the field of education. We honour ourselves by building bridges between our educational systems. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Because I believe that this text represents a significant step forward for the governance and development of our network, because it is the subject of a consensus among the elected representatives of the French abroad and because I have the honour of being a privileged witness to the excellence of this network and its vitality, I invite you unreservedly to vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u236	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u237	The bill of our colleague senator representing the French abroad aims to change the governance of the Agency for French Education Abroad by amending its board of directors, completing the list of its missions and creating regional training institutes for the staff of the network. For this parliamentary discussion, the Government called for an expedited procedure. He thus confirms that, as we have all deplored for several weeks, you wish, just before the end of the legislature, to sweep away all the sectoral subjects in haste and, of course, without this being completely without any electoral background. For the observation is that it would have been necessary to wait until the twilight of the quinquennium to deal with the important issue of the AEFE,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u238	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, How can he say that?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u239	... this large agency which, for more than thirty years, has carried out the essential tasks of public education service in favour of the children of French residents outside France. With 552 schools in 138 countries, AEFE is a unique educational network in the world, where more than 375000 students are welcomed daily. I would like to acknowledge the involvement of Agency staff, these thousands of people whose work is being done with dedication, and I would like to pay tribute to them, in particular because of the difficult situation they faced during these two years of health crisis, during which they were the driving force behind the network's preservation. They managed to overcome the problems with great resilience and enabled thousands of students to continue their studies in distanciel or face-to-face. For a long time, thanks to its agents, AEFE has been implementing, for the benefit of the institutions of the network, an ambitious pedagogical policy that reconciles respect for the school curricula in France and an openness to the language and culture of the host country. This agency is also a powerful lever of influence for our country, as it contributes to the influence of French language and culture. With 60% of foreign students welcomed, it is a valuable tool in the service of la francophonie. If this bill is in the right direction, then our discussion this evening is an opportunity for us to remind, Mr. Deputy Minister, that presidential commitments are still far from being fulfilled. In 2018, the President of the Republic Emmanuel Macron undertook to double the number of French education abroad to reach the figure of 700000 pupils in 2030. Four years later, on the eve of a major democratic rendezvous, as on many subjects, the balance sheet is mixed and the account is not there. Over the past five years, the budget allocations for the AEFE have fallen significantly, the number of staff has declined, with 512 full-time equivalents (FTEs) abolished since 2016, and the future of the Agency's funding is in no way settled. Much still remains to be done to realize the presidential ambition of doubling the student rate in the network. This question of the lack of resources was also raised during the examination of the last contract for objectives and means – COM – of the AEFE, which covers the period 2021-2023. However, this examination by the Committee on Foreign Affairs took place in January 2022: it would have been desirable, and more respectful of AEFE and parliamentarians, for it to have taken place before the start of the COM. Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also addressed a letter to Mr Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Foreign Affairs, expressing the Committee's wish that this situation should not be repeated and that the examination of the contract for objectives and means in committee should take place – sorry to insist on this fact – before it was launched. The Republicans will nevertheless support this bill, which goes in the right direction with a better representativeness of the players in the network, an expansion of the missions of the AEFE and the creation of regional training institutes for staff. We regret, however, that it was not until the last quarter of the quinquennium that we finally took care of French education abroad and brought the resources up to our ambitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u240	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u241	The text before us today is part of the growing development of the Agence française pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger, created more than 30 years ago to ensure the continuity of public service in the field of education, be it children of French nationality or foreign students. Indeed, because of the quality of its work, the AEFE has seen an important development in recent years. With nearly 380,000 students attending school, she doubled her number and became a key player in the influence of French language and culture. During his speech on 20 March 2018 at the Institut de France on ambition for the French language and plurilingualism, the President of the Republic wished to maintain a strong ambition for the agency, setting it the target of no less than 700000 pupils by 2030. In order to support this growth, this bill intends, on the one hand, to expand the governance of the Agency by changing the composition of its Board of Directors and, on the other hand, to extend its missions, with particular emphasis on training. The first two articles aim to ensure better representation on the AEFE Board of Directors, by including members of former students' associations and FLAM associations. They also ensure that parents managing institutions have a specific representation on the board of directors. I am particularly pleased to see these provisions appear, because they are the result of a struggle that has been being waged since the beginning of the legislature by Senator Samantha Cazebonne, but also by my colleague Frédéric Petit, whose commitment I welcome, because I know that I am particularly committed to these institutions. It was indeed essential to strengthen the representation of parent managers because our network would be nothing without these actors, who must be recognized to the extent of their commitment. As we know, in the majority of the institutions in the network, it is families who pay and run our schools abroad. Through their dedication, they are at the heart of French action in the world. Articles 3 and 4 provide for the strengthening of the Agency's role in the training and development of the network. To this end, they plan to establish 16 regional training institutes, which was one of the key elements of the 2019 development plan. The Agency will then have the task of bringing these institutes to life and prosperity, which will provide initial and continuing training identical to those provided in France to personnel working or working in the network, as well as to personnel working in foreign educational systems. As a result of this article, AEFE will be able to better carry out its task of educational cooperation with local authorities. Among the articles introduced by the Senate, section 5 is intended to enrich the annual management report with a presentation of all components of the scholarship scale and proposals for changes in the instructions for the next school scholarship campaign. Finally, Articles 6 to 8 will allow the submission of various reports on topics such as the agency's borrowing capacity, respect for secularism and social mix within the network. Members considered these additions to be relevant and therefore wished to retain them during the committee examination. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Considering that this text will allow the full deployment of the AEFE's action, in particular by meeting the expectations of the actors involved as close as possible to these institutions, the Democratic Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u242	Mr Alain David has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u243	Your presentation was very enthusiastic, rapporteur. I will be a little less so for my part, even if it gives us the opportunity to talk about this formidable public operator, the AEFE. At the head of a thirty-year-old network, which remains unique, it is also one of the main highlights of our diplomacy of influence, because beyond our language, it is indeed our republican values that it conveys. This bill has two objectives. The first is to change the composition of the AEFE Board of Directors, bringing in new representatives of associations as experts and doubling the representation of families. Such a development may seem legitimate, as the involvement of parents of students in the management of schools, as well as their financial participation, is increasing. However, we hope that this enlargement will promote the plurality of the federations of parents' associations. We also believe that the change in the proportion of seats on the board of directors should not be to the detriment of the representativeness of the staff. Indeed, the radical change in the model to which the Government wishes to move, with the forced extension of the network through the certification of partner establishments, would require, on the contrary, a greater role for them. The second objective is the creation of the IRFs, which are intended to take over from the sixteen zone mutualising establishments. It seems that the AEFE did not wait for this bill, since the first IRF was inaugurated in Dakar even before the adoption of the text. Such haste undoubtedly marks the readiness of the AEFE to meet the objective set by the President of the Republic to double the number of students by 2030 – we still have eight years – which means, among other things, to increase the number of trained teachers. In addition, in order to hope to receive 700000 pupils in the long term, it will be necessary to carry out a significant extension of the AEFE's housing stock. Since 2011, the ban on borrowing handicaps the Agency in the conduct of its own real estate projects concerning its institutions under direct management and creates increasing tensions with families, over which the bulk of the burden weighs heavily. This financial point is certainly not addressed by the text, but if we do not have classrooms to accommodate students and teachers, there is no point in increasing their capacity in their training, unless, of course, the objective is to rely entirely on the development of private institutions. This would explain why the AEFE is at the same time deprived of additional human and financial resources to carry out its mission. Thus, while this text meets the objectives of the last contract of objectives and means and honours a commitment made to the parents' associations of students, it raises many questions and encourages us to open future debates on a subject that is of great interest to us all. We will, however, support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u244	Mr M'jid El Guerrab has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u245	Today we are living an important moment. Our assembly will set its course on those of the Senate to vote a bill, which after four and a half years of legislature made of work, uphill and conviction, will allow us to give the French school in the world the means of our ambition for it. "French, French, French, and French are our spoils of war," said Kateb Yacine. The countries of my constituency, the Maghreb and West Africa, know this: French is a treasure that no longer belongs to France alone. French is today, and will be even more so tomorrow, an African language. In this new space, in the face of this new reality, what role should France play? How can this development be accompanied, promoted, encouraged and developed? During his speech on 20 March 2018 at the Institut de France on the ambition for the French language and plurilingualism, the President of the Republic set the goal of doubling the number of French teachers abroad, i.e. to welcome 700000 students by 2030 in our schools around the world. This ambition marks a turning point in our policy of influence and attractiveness towards our foreign partners, in an increasingly competitive area of cooperation. AEFE is at the heart of this strategy through its network, unique in the world, which many of us feel. I see this when I travel to the sixteen countries that make up my constituency, where the density of its establishments is one of the highest: out of 545 establishments worldwide, 98 are registered, of which 31 are in direct management. Everywhere in the non-French-speaking countries of my constituency, in Gambia, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Guinea-Bissao or Cape Verde, local officials tell me in good French: "Make us French schools! " Nevertheless, the modernisation of the governance of the AEFE through greater participation of parents of pupils and a strengthening of the training arrangements is necessary: this is the subject of the text. The parents' associations of pupils, with whom I meet daily – again this morning with Adyl Touhami, the representative of a brand new association, the Union of Parents' Associations of Students Abroad (UNAPE) – and to whom this magnificent network owes everything, have been constantly campaigning to be more involved in the governance of the AEFE. The purpose of the bill we are considering is to respond to it. I have a thought for my friend François Normant, president of the Federation of Parents' Associations of Students of French Educational Institutions Abroad (FAPEE), who is certainly following our debates in Senegal, where he resides.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u246	Excellent president!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u247	To meet the objective of better involving parents at all levels, the bill seeks to change the balance within the AEFE Board of Directors by bringing in two additional representatives of the parents' federations. This development is legitimate: the parents of pupils finance 80% of French education abroad. Their share is important, including in institutions under direct management. Their commitment is at the heart of the network's vitality. France must stand as a guarantor of quality, accompanying this extension of the network which must never be at the expense of quality. The core of the bill is the creation of regional training institutes, which will be directly managed by the Agency. Training is indeed at the heart of the network's development strategy, while the evolution of the workforce since 2016 shows an increase in local law staff. While they may be civil servants who hold national education, who are on standby or who have a direct secondment from their academy to a partner institution, the growth of local law staff nevertheless implies a major overall training effort to ensure that the growth of the network is not to the detriment of quality. I would like to say a word about what makes the Agency strong: the diversity of its educational community and the status of teachers. When families drop down their children in Algiers in front of LIAD – the Alexandre Dumas International High School – in Rabat in front of Descartes High School, in Tunis in front of Pierre Mendès-France High School, when parents entrust us with their daughters and sons, which is more dear to them in the world, whether in Bamako, Dakar or Abidjan, everywhere, there is this confidence in France. "La francophonie is this integral humanism that weaves around the earth," wrote poet Léopold Sédar Senghor. The Agir ensemble group will therefore vote fervently for this bill, an essential tool for the international influence of the French language.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u248	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u249	Beyond the immense cultural, economic, diplomatic and political possibilities offered by the Francophonie, it is the role of the State to continue to transmit French values and culture to all its citizens, wherever they may be. It is the mission of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger, created in 1990: to ensure the continuity of French education, recognized for its quality, and that French parents always plebiscite for their children when they live abroad. In 30 years, the network's workforce has more than doubled. However, the Agency's financial and legal resources fall short of its objectives and the expansion of the French abroad. That is why we can only question the cancellation of €33 million in 2017 which had a lasting negative impact on the AEFE...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u250	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u251	... and was not fully offset by the €25 million increase in the initial finance law for 2020. The decline in school subsidies for French students, and especially the decline in employment, are other difficulties, which are all in contradiction with the Government's goal of doubling the number of students. In addition, we are concerned about the uncertain evolution of school subsidies for French students, who have decreased by 10 million euros in the initial finance law for 2022, without any guarantee...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u252	No, there's an outburst, so everything's fine!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u253	I am delighted to be able to talk to you on this point, Minister Delegate, but, based on the analysis of the original 2022 finance bill, there is indeed a decline...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u254	It is offset by last year's reserves!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u255	All right. In any event, the main obstacle to the development of the network today lies in the ban on AEFE borrowing in the medium and long term, as this prevents the Agency from investing. The development of the network necessarily requires real estate operations to increase the reception capacity of institutions in direct management. As our colleague Meyer Habib, who is familiar with the subject in her capacity as Member of Parliament for French students living abroad – like you, the rapporteur – has said in committee, this proposal for a law on the governance of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger seems to go in the right direction, in particular by ensuring a better representation of the parents of students on the board of directors of the Agency – parents of students who represent, let us recall, an essential contribution to the running costs of the institutions. We also welcome the expansion of the tasks entrusted to AEFE. Finally, we believe it is imperative to significantly increase the Agency's resources, but also to allow it to borrow. In conclusion, it was regrettable that some important issues were dealt with only through requests for reports to the Government. These requests are numerous in the text: one of them deals with respect for the values of the Republic and secularism within the institutions, another evaluates the social mix in the network, and one mentions the components of the scale of scholarships. It is our fervent hope that the data collected will lead to progress on such essential issues. Our group knows that the Government is aware of the importance of AEFE, of the French education network abroad and, above all, of the influence of the Francophonie in foreign countries. The number of French people living abroad is increasing and we must support them, which is why the IDU Group will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u256	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u257	Our French teaching network abroad, which is very large, can and must be a pride for our country: it brings together 375,000 students in 543 schools and is present in nearly 140 countries, making it a unique network in the world – allow me to mention a high school that is very dear to me, the French high school Alejo-Carpentier of Havana, which has 300 students ranging from kindergarten to terminal. AEFE schools have an average record of 77%, which is more than the rate found on the national territory – and Alejo-Carpentier High School has done even better! Hosting more than 60% of foreign students, the AEFE network is mainly a source of influence for France, for the French language and for the attractiveness of our country. It contributes to the promotion of French higher education throughout the world. The reform of the governance of the Agence pour l'enseignement français à l'étranger is welcome, and this bill makes necessary adjustments. The provision to ensure better representation of families and former students on the board of directors takes into account the demands and investment of those concerned, which it makes sense to involve them in governance. In many cases, the parents of pupils or former pupils are responsible for the creation and day-to-day management of schools. The establishment of regional training institutes, endorsed in this law, and their management by the AEFE, are also desirable in order to achieve a better meshing of the territory of the countries concerned – not only Havana in Cuba. The new mission given to AEFE in terms of staff training is also necessary in a context where staff needs will increase as a result of the desire to expand the network. However, we wish to affirm our opposition to the tendency to recruit large numbers of teachers under local contracts, which may be further strengthened in order to achieve the objectives set. Teachers thus recruited do not hold national education, which may lead to a lower quality of education; Above all, these contracts are often less advantageous for the teachers concerned than those applicable to teachers who benefit from the framework of French law. More generally, this trend is seen in another form in metropolitan France, where it affects not only national education, but also the entire public service, with the massive use of contract workers. That is not at all our vision of national education, let us make it clear. In addition, we question the means. Indeed, there is a decrease in the number of teachers resulting from the abolition of 512 full-time equivalents over the period 2017-2020, which appears to be totally contradictory to the stated goal of developing the network. Similarly, the AEFE budget is down by €9 million in the 2022 finance law compared to the 2021 finance law, mainly due to a reduction in school grants of €10 million in 2022. The Government is announcing a target of doubling the number of students in French education abroad by 2030. We support this ambitious and honourable goal, but how can we achieve it by reducing the means to achieve it? We hope that the positive announcements will be well followed up, and that in the coming years there will be real budgetary acceleration rather than downsizing and downsizing. Furthermore, what is the future of the pupils after their academic career within the AEFE network? It is known that 60 per cent of children enrolled in this framework are foreign nationals. Many wish to pursue their higher education in France, which is a logical path. During the quinquennium, however, it was decided to introduce substantial university fees for foreign students, which considerably limits the possibility for the least fortunate to come to study in France. Isn't that a major contradiction? [[Mr. M-jid El Guerrab applauded]] Despite these few reservations, the Libertés et territoires Group will vote for this bill, which makes adjustments welcome in the organisation of the AEFE. However, we hope that, beyond the announcement effects, real means will be used for the long-term development of French education abroad. In conclusion, I will quote Alejo Carpentier, buried in Havana: "The new worlds must be lived before being explained" – and I will add that they must be helped.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u258	On the proposal for a law, I have a request for a public vote before the La République on the move. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u259	In 2022, French education abroad has 552 schools, ensuring a French presence in 138 countries, which propagates, conveys and defends not only our language, but also our culture and our history; It welcomes 380,000 pupils, one third of whom are French. These figures are indicative of the vitality of our network: in thirty years, we have more than doubled our workforce. Our institutions recall and affirm the importance of our country across the seas and on all continents. The new goal of doubling the number of students accommodated in the French teaching network abroad by 2030, announced by Emmanuel Macron, is a good thing. This is a new challenge, indispensable for maintaining our power and diplomacy, but also for building bridges with abroad, because our cultural, commercial and diplomatic policies depend on it. If this objective goes in the right direction, it seems to me that significant improvements could be made to the existing system. First of all because this attraction for the French education system abroad cannot continue without a real investment on our part. We were very surprised, Madam rapporteur – as you yourself recalled earlier – to see your majority vote in 2017 to abolish EUR 33 million of payment appropriations for AEFE. Indeed, how can development dynamics be encouraged while removing the means of the body responsible for this policy? In addition, having placed the AEFE on the list of various central government bodies, the ODAC, prevents it from contracting a loan for a period of more than one year. If we really want to increase reception capacity and increase establishments abroad, we need to "at the same time" – to use an expression that is dear to you – to allow them to carry out real estate operations to amplify their reception capacity. Section 6 of this bill envisages a report by 2022 in order to meet the possibility of borrowing for project financing, but I hope that it will not be too late to meet the needs of our institutions and their ambitions. This bill responds to repeated requests from parents of students to be better represented in the AEFE. Again, that's a good thing. Invested, these parents will be committed to valuing these institutions and serving them as best they can. Attention should also be paid to the support given to parents who attend these institutions – I am thinking in particular of the children of civil servants or military personnel stationed abroad. If these French establishments are a diplomatic tool for France, they are also tools available to the French, and France must be at their side. Before concluding, I would like to point out that if we wish to propose our model, our language, our history abroad, it is because we want to defend them. But how can we promote abroad what we have on our own soil? The Académie française adopted yesterday a report denouncing the abundance of anglicisms in institutional communication. Immortels fear a "loss of linguistic landmarks" due to galloping anglicization. When Air France defends the SkyTeam, La Poste the pickup stations and the Fnac its French days, it's time to react! The teaching of French abroad will not be possible without a fierce defence of our language on our own soil, under penalty of proposing only a very pale shadow of our country, without character or authenticity. In this connection, I cannot help but mention here, by way of conclusion, our new identity card, which, on the pretext of obeying the standards in force in the European Union, contains many mentions in English. The title "ID Card" and the titles "Name", "First Names", "Sex", "Date of Birth", "Place of Birth", "User Name", "Document Number", "Size" and "Date of Issue" are written in both languages. However, paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the European Union Regulation requires only the title "Identity card". Why then did France choose the bilingual version for all the references to our official document, in disregard of our Constitution, article 2 of which states that "the language of the Republic is French"? "My homeland is the French language," said Albert Camus. So, please, let's all protect her together!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u260	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u261	Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u262	Would you like to sign up for an article, Mr. Herbillon?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u263	[[Applause on all benches]] My intervention is of a different nature. I understand that this is the last time you have presided over the sitting, and I wanted, on behalf of our entire House, to pay tribute to the way you have served throughout this Parliament. Chairing public sessions is difficult and delicate and you have always done so with great dignity and efficiency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u264	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, I am very sensitive to these words and to your applause. Be aware that I have had a great deal of pleasure in this position. There have been troubled moments but I have always endeavoured to seek mutual respect, without difficulty I must say so much as this objective seems natural to me. [[Applause on all benches]] Good road for all of you – I won't add anything because only the future will tell us what's going on. I wish you the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u265	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill. Since they are not the subject of any amendment, I shall put them to the vote successively.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u266	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u267	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 38 Number of votes cast 38 Absolute majority 20 For adoption 38 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-16-O1157.u268	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Five bills authorizing the ratification of the following international conventions and agreements: France-Singapore Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters; Convention establishing the International Organisation for Aids to Maritime Navigation; France-Uzbekistan and France-Tunisia agreements on international road transport; France-Tajikistan Air Services Agreement; Agreement on the seat of the European Banking Authority and its privileges and immunities on French territory. The meeting is adjourned.
