ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the proposed constitutional law to introduce a right of dismissal of elected officials (No. 4751, 4863).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u2	In the general debate, Mrs Sabine Rubin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u3	"The English people think they are free, they are very wrong: they are free only during the election of the members of parliament; As soon as they're elected, he's a slave, he's nothing. » This formula, clear and lapidary, we owe it to Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who, in his book The Social Contract, sought to lay the theoretical foundations for the exercise of sovereignty for a free people, gathered within the rescommunis and deliberating in favour of the general interest. This mistrust, if not that mistrust of the representative mandate, was not the responsibility of an isolated individual: in his practice and in his analysis, the democratic ideal has been the subject of passionate debates since the highest antiquity. This proposal for a constitutional law is a continuation of these debates to enrich them. How can we ensure that citizens can freely exercise their rights, participate in the most direct way in the life and organization of the city, far from the shady tutelage and tyranny of private groups? That is the big issue we are dealing with today. Here we propose the holding of a revocative referendum, at the initiative of a quorum of citizens, which would allow the removal of an elected representative, from the municipal councillor to the President of the Republic, at the end of the first third of the term and before the last year of the latter. But before I develop the spirit of this text and respond to the criticisms made during its examination in committee, let me say why I have taken up this proposal, which my colleague and Comrade Corbière was at the origin. I was never elected before this term or, surprisingly, sought to be elected, standing at the edge of professional policy. And if I was able, here or there, to compete in a few elections, I considered them essentially as forums for expressing my ideas, for example on the risk of proliferation of nuclear weapons. Thus, and even though I have, for forty years, kept mingling with the affairs of the city, far from me the idea of becoming a "political woman", so much the current course of business had ended up disgusting me deeply. This apprehension, I felt very early: already, when our class delegates were elected, it seemed strange to me to speak "in the name of", without consulting anyone. Then, a young citizen in the 1980s, I was able to appreciate the value of certain electoral promises – I am thinking of the "change the life" of a left who quickly faded, and whose rose faded by losing one by one petals. The growing professionalisation of the political world, its sociological reduction to an area of notables, the weight of the money powers in our public decisions and then the abandonment of the debate of ideas in favour of an electoral marketing that became invading: these were the reasons for the anger that kept me, paradoxically, away from any political party. Even today, the simple formulas: "the French think that", "the French want that", pronounced by representatives, hedge my hair because of their dishonesty. But this impression of that time is more relevant than ever. The gap between representatives and representatives continues to widen: all of us here, regardless of our benches, have little or no shared the same diagnosis of the exhaustion of our representative institutions. "Low intensity democracy", "democratic caesarism", "soft despotism": whatever the images used, the phenomenon persists. Our fellow citizens feel dispossessed every day of their power to act. I want proof of the abstention that we all know. In my constituency, for example, less than half of the voters moved to my election.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u4	Maybe they didn't want it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u5	Does this disaffection reflect indifference to public affairs? I don't think so. In November, I made a micro-trotter in my territory. It reveals that, while many of our fellow citizens ignore our institutions and functions, all have a view of the dysfunctions of our society in various fields: disability, school, unemployment, housing, ecology and, indeed, democracy. So those people who don't say anything in the ballot box have something to say. Of course, the problem is not only French. In all liberal democracies, there is increasing abstention, because it is the representative fact itself that questions. This question does not date from today. Long before Rousseau, the Greek cities challenged the very principle of representation. The very idea that a man could run for the votes of his peers was then offended. The participation of all and of full right in the ecclesia was the rule, precisely so that the people remained sovereign and to remove the spectre of aristocracy and oligarchy. Later, Rousseau, whom I have already quoted, also expressed it: "The idea of the representatives [...] would come to us from the feudal government, from this iniquitous and absurd government in which the human species is degraded and where the name of man is in dishonour. » For our country, the principle of revocability is consubstantial to the very idea of democracy and republic. Against the defenders of elected national representation, like Sieyes, many were already the voices that stood: if the people were sovereign and their inalienable will, believed some, then it was up to the people to change their government and revoke their agents. In the same spirit, the central committee of the Paris Commune stated: "The members of the municipal assembly, constantly controlled, monitored, discussed by the opinion are revocable, accountable and responsible. » Of course, I do not disagree with the criticisms made in committee or with the fact that this proposal alone does not intend to resolve the serious crisis affecting our institutions. Among the arguments that have been opposed to me, the revocability has been discredited in the name of the attractiveness of the "trade" – I repeat the term that was used – of the elected one. It seems inadmissible to me. I never considered the election a career. It should even be the opposite, and I hope that we will find ourselves here out of sincere conviction, not for advantages or privileges. We all spend a great deal of our time carrying out our mandate, including in the context of our private and social lives. The alleged instability created by revocability was then objected to. First of all, it is a matter of defining, by an organic law, a quorum that can trigger the referendum. Should it gather 5, 10, or 15% of the registered voters? The debate remains open. In any case, the argument is weak as we know the difficulty of mobilising our fellow citizens out of the electoral tempo. In this case, the behaviour or decision of an elected official should be reprobated in such a way that a significant part of public opinion is involved. We are therefore far from the permanent election, a fear expressed this morning by the Minister of Justice. It was also mentioned that there was a risk that interest groups, lobbies, and other groups might be devoking this revocative mechanism. But aren't elected officials already under various pressures? Are not our respective programmes – when there are ones – anchored, each in their own way, in the expression of various interests within civil society? Moreover, a programme is not so much a list of measures to be sorted as an expression of a vision of the functioning of society. In addition, these measures will always be the subject of parliamentary debates or even referendums.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u6	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u7	I mean, there's an argument that's kind of blocked me. It was said that the power of revocation was tantamount to putting the elected candidate in the hands of the citizen-elector. Well, yes, indeed, and that is precisely one of the virtues of our proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u8	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u9	It is even revolutionary – still it is necessary to agree on the meaning of words since the minister, who called us revolutionaries this morning, supports a president who, in 2017, himself declared that he intended to lead a revolution. In addition, this proposed revocation would perhaps prevent elected officials – like a colleague of this assembly, number two of one of the country's main political groups – from leaving their organisation on the eve of a presidential election, even without their voters having a say. I know that, under the Fifth Republic, the election is nominative. But our system is precisely a way of directly empowering anyone who claims to speak on behalf of the people who elected him. This proposal has nothing of a miracle remedy. It is also part of a global approach: the takeover by the citizens of public affairs – that is, their Republic. Of course, other proposals could revitalize our democracy: the introduction of proportional representation, non-cumulation of mandates over time, referendums on citizens' initiatives, or any kind of respect for referendums such as that of 2005. But there are also innovations, such as the Citizen Climate Convention, which the President himself has impulsed, and which have enabled citizens of all ages and conditions, drawn by lot, to formulate proposals for the future of our planet. But notice the contradiction: all the proposals of this Convention have been wiped out by a reverse vote by a supposedly representative parliament. In conclusion, all the reflections and proposals that make it possible to achieve the democratic ideal are good to take. But none of them alone will respond to the aspirations of today's more mature, informed and aware citizens that they have never been. Democracy cannot be reduced to an institutional framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u10	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u11	As Pierre Mendès France said, it is first and foremost a "state of mind".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u12	Where are your troops to defend democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u13	[[Rapporteur Alexis Corbière applauds]] As we are increasingly harassed, threatened with death, sometimes exposed to violence – which I regret – this proposal should allow us to get out of this crisis from the top.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u14	Where are the FI MPs?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u15	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u16	Our colleagues from unsuspecting France give us the opportunity to discuss an important subject, especially at a time when our democracy is being shaken in unusual proportions, as evidenced by the unacceptable violence against elected officials throughout our territory or the desertion of ballot boxes, after voting. Without ever justifying acts of violence, we must seek to understand these phenomena, which seem to us symptomatic of the disenchantment that the French and French experience with regard to political speech and their institutions. They accredit the idea that we are experiencing a very deep democratic crisis, calling without delay for a major institutional renewal. However virtuous it may be, we do not believe that the right of dismissal of elected officials will solve this scourge, as it addresses the consequences of this democratic disamour and in no way the causes. Today, citizens' distrust of political representation is exacerbated above all by our constitutional rigidity. Voulue as such by its founding fathers, the Fifth Republic disproportionately enshrines streamlined parliamentarism. The executive has unparalleled powers in other democratic regimes. Moreover, with the introduction of the presidential quinquennium in 2000, the corollary of which is the synchronization of the electoral calendar, the episodes of cohabitation became much more hypothetical. This has the effect of further amplifying the pre-eminence of the President of the Republic by emphasizing the majority fact that the Head of State, elected with the force of universal suffrage, leads in his wake to the formation of a presidential majority in the National Assembly. For political pluralism, the price to be paid is heavy. We must counter this deadly logic by transforming our political system into a genuine parliamentary system. The solutions are known: reversal of the electoral calendar, end of the election of the President of the Republic by universal suffrage, election of the Prime Minister by the Assembly or deletion of article 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, of the blocked vote and of all other tricks of streamlined parliamentarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u18	The power must come back to Parliament, but a parliament where political and sociological representation is in line with what is happening in our country. Unfortunately, we now have far too few workers, employees or farmers in the National Assembly, which shows the gap between citizens and their political class. Change will also take place by promoting democratic expression through referendums. The GDR Group has tabled a proposal for a constitutional law aimed at establishing a referendum of legislative and abrogation citizens' initiative, thinking that the direct participation of citizens is perfectly complementary to the parliamentary regime. This is what is happening in Switzerland, whose political system is judged, rightly, as the most democratic in the world: in the homeland of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, it is not possible to revoke elected officials, but our Swiss neighbours are led to take a very regular position on political debates, often of great importance. Thus, it was by referendum that the Swiss had to decide whether or not to introduce the health pass before the parliamentarians seized the subject, which was a testament to the full consideration that the Swiss gave to the direct participation of citizens. In conclusion, we believe that the right to remove elected representatives would not spare the defenders of the general interest. In the United States, a Colorado senator was dismissed from his term of office after a revocative procedure was initiated by the well-known NRA, the National Rifle Association, because he had approved a bill that reduced the size of automatic over-the-counter weapon loaders. This illuminating example shows the risks that a revocative procedure would place on elected officials, who could thus become the target of certain lobbyists who are struck by social or environmental proposals deemed by them to be contrary to the interests of capital. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Roland Lescure also applauds]] Therefore, if we share the findings of our colleagues in the La France group, we differ on how to remedy the democratic crisis we are experiencing. That is why we will not vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u19	All right! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u20	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u21	The proposal for a constitutional law that you are presenting, Mr. Rapporteur, aims to establish a mechanism for the dismissal of elected officials by referendum, regardless of their mandate; the President of the Republic, parliamentarians or local elected officials. However, the proposed system appears to be legally imprecise, ineffective in terms of objectives and contrary to our democratic foundations. First of all, it seems difficult for the legislator - who is debating such a technically imprecise proposal. Indeed, if the stated principle is clear, the procedure is blurred:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u22	And when it's blurred,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u23	... the revoking referendum would be launched at the request of "any initiative", without it being determined who would be likely to take it and, above all, in what form and how many times. Similarly, this "initiative" would not be valid until a certain percentage of the electorate, unknown at this stage, had been approved. Finally, the method of referendum, local or national, is not known either – number of signatures required, quorum, judicial review, grounds for revocation. In short, most of the conditions for the implementation of the provisions contained in this text are referred to a non-existent organic law to date. You refer to foreign examples as sources that can inspire the institution of a French revocative referendum. But, in addition to the fact that they present notable differences between them and that every constitutional transplant is often chimera, the constitutionalist Michel Verpeaux himself acknowledges in one of his books that these mechanisms are so fragile and so heavy that they become ineffective. Moreover, it is not necessary to go abroad to find examples of mechanisms of dismissal since we have such tools in our domestic law, such as article 68 of the Constitution, which provides for the possibility of depriving the President of the Republic or the possibility of removing mayors or their deputies. Secondly, this proposal for a constitutional law is inoperative. Indeed, you believe that the removal of elected officials would be a solution to combat abstention and to restore voter confidence in elected officials. The phenomena of abstention and distrust exist and must certainly challenge us, but how can we think that allowing everyone to try at any moment to remove an elected official could improve confidence in our political institutions? There is no way to refer to foreign examples to answer this question since there is to date no sufficient empirical evidence to link the revocative referendum to increased confidence or reduction in abstention. On the other hand, we can turn to the European Commission for Democracy through Law, the so-called Venice Commission, which has published a report on popular dismissal: it warns about the risks, if not the dangers, which it describes as "significant" of this type of system, in particular and precisely the risk that the confidence of voters in their elected representatives will be eroded, the exact opposite of the effect sought by this text. Finally, this constitutional bill is a radical denial of our democratic functioning. Article 27 of the Constitution states that "any mandatory mandate is void" and protects us by consecrating the representative mandate, enshrined in our political history since 1789. By establishing national sovereignty at the heart of our representative model, it is the will of the nation that prevails and not the interests of particular groups of voters, it is our nation, united and indivisible, that is the body. [[Mrs Sabine Rubin exclaimed]] You, you propose a political system with voters perceived as potential censors who could regroup within discontented coalitions, built only to put an end to the mandates of elected officials prematurely. We are opting for a society that allows every citizen to engage and be the force of proposals in order to become an actor in his day-to-day life. This is what we have done through the institution and strengthening of innovative participatory democracy tools and moments, including the Citizen's Climate Convention. Our responsibility is not to base trust on individualism, but to rebuild collective trust in the nation's representative institutions. This imperative was imposed on our majority from the beginning of the term of office, as demonstrated by the 2017 vote on the law for confidence in political life, the aim of which is to guarantee the transparency of elected officials and to promote political pluralism. Our group refuses to participate in the creation of a political world based on suspicion and division. This constitutional bill proves to be a false promise of revitalizing democracy. [[Applause on several of the LaREM Group]] That is why the Republic on the move will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u24	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u25	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u26	Is Robespierre the future of French democracy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u27	Excellent question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u28	[[Smile]] Melenchonist comrades would like to convince us of this. Of course, rapporteur, you seem to have cooled your mountain ardour in this rostrum this morning, you did not go so far as to demand the restoration of the guillotine – what is in you a humanist probably forbids you to call us to physically shorten those whom the Insubmis look like the enemies of the people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u29	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u30	[["Very good! » on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] But your system of popular revocation would, in truth, be another form of shortening that could send representatives unable to be, in your eyes, the perfect, immediate, immanent reflection of the people represented into the trash of history. Even if, as deputy for the Yonne, I am here the successor of a regicide treaty, Louis-Michel Lepeletier de Saint-Fargeau,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u31	A great man!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u32	...you will excuse me for not being raised in the cult of 1793.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u33	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u34	[[Smile on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I don't trust the Pasta Marat. I love freedom too much to subject it absolutely to equality. Reader of Montesquieu, I know that "The principle of democracy is corrupted, not only when one loses the spirit of equality; But still when one takes the spirit of extreme equality, and everyone wants to be equal to those whom he chooses to command him. The consequences are known, almost mechanical. I quote Montesquieu again: "There are small tyrants, who have all the vices of one. Soon what remains of freedom becomes unbearable. Only one tyrant rises – I regret that President Mélenchon is not among us;...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u35	He's on the show!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u36	"...and the people lose everything [...]. So it would be a madness to give in to drunken gowns, which confuses democracy and popular dictatorship, at the risk of tipping into a new personal tyranny.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u37	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u38	[["Oh! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] But I want to say with the same force to the Members of the Marais, that is to say, the present majority, that it would be imprudent, ladies and gentlemen, to think that we are comfortably settled in a peaceful institutional status quo. The truth is that democratic doubt gnaws our republic:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u39	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u40	... democracy is suspected of turning empty when those we elect do not really exercise the power for which they were chosen, whatever their good will, and when our institutions, formally so powerful, seem to be fundamentally powerless. So the real question, it seems to me, is whether the promise of political freedom that the nation made itself in 1789 can be kept in France in the years 2020. My conviction is that ballot boxes are always preferable to barricades. Rather than getting bogged down, between dog and wolf, in the impotence of democratic doubt, let us regain the audacity of the beginnings, let us give the sovereign the freedom to choose his representatives more often so that the elected representatives of the nation really are. Thus, the National Assembly will be strengthened if its legitimacy is more often verified and if the President of the Republic, when he perceives that the Government's action has an uncertain popular base, agrees to decorate his mandate with that of the parliamentary majority by again making use of the power of dissolution which he holds under article 12 of the Constitution. I would have understood perfectly, for example, that our assembly was dissolved in 2019, after the yellow vest crisis. Falling into disuse for a quarter of a century, dissolution has this ancient virtue, but by no means over-year, to allow the people to express themselves freely and to choose earlier to whom they delegate, for a time, the freedom to deliberate and decide on their behalf, that is, to direct the State. In this spirit, the question of the method of voting, ladies and gentlemen, must again be asked in order to better represent the diversity of opinion flows, to promote coalition logic and to encourage the gathering of the French of good will. It is equally urgent to remind us that, while "national sovereignty belongs to the people", the people exercise it both "by their representatives" – all of us here, ladies and gentlemen – "and through referendum", as stated in Article 3 of the Constitution. The two branches of expression of sovereignty must be revitalized: that of representation, I said, but also that, reasoned, of the referendum expression, which the last three Presidents of the Republic have had the great mistake of abandoning for seventeen years. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks' time this Assembly will have lived and a new Assembly will be elected. Let us together express the hope that it will not yield to extremist temptations, that of the far left and that of the far right, but that it will not become bogged down in immobilism either. Let us be faithful to the promise of political freedom which the nation made to itself in 1789 and which it had been able to renew in 1958 at the time of the Gaullian re-foundation of our republic. We will then, perhaps, find the revolutionary force of hope with French democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u41	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u42	France faces unprecedented abstention rates and a profound challenge to its representative model, the foundation of our democracy. According to the latest CEVIPOF barometer, for 55% of French people, democracy works badly and, even more alarmingly, for 77% of them, politics evokes the terms "disgust" or "distrust". Without yielding anything to the pessimism of the environment, one must look at reality in the face. These figures alert us to the need to act, to rebuild trust and to reenchant democracy. We are not unaware of the depth of the crisis that affects us. Since the beginning of the legislature, the Democratic Group has been working tirelessly to deepen citizen participation, one of the conditions for the revitalization of our democracy. We have defended strong proposals in this direction, such as the recognition of the white vote or the introduction of proportional voting. We will continue to act until the end of our mandates to highlight these key issues, particularly during the final parliamentary niche reserved for our group on 3 February. The reflection on the creation of new democratic mechanisms is noble, and the debate deserves to take place as you propose today, Mr Corbière. We are open to ideas in this direction. I am, of course, referring to the new democratic mechanisms and not to your proposal itself, because, unfortunately, your proposal for a constitutional law is not able to meet the challenges I have mentioned. Your text aims to establish a revocative referendum of citizens' initiative, which would put an end to the term of office of all elected officials, national and local, after the fulfilment of a third of their mandate and before their last year – for a term of five years, it would therefore be possible to revoke one year and eight months after the election. You said this morning that such a provision would unlock situations; Rather, I have the impression that it ignores what constitutes democracy and the specificity of the representative mandate: respect for democratic rhythms. We must therefore reflect, as you have done, on how the citizen participates in political decision-making in the interval between two elections. This is a real subject on which we must work. On the other hand, your proposal is a trompe l'oeil. It simply aims to sleep our fellow citizens, without bringing any concrete improvement to French democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u43	It's a fucking blow!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u44	I do not go back to the form: the essentials have been said. In any case, the text you are proposing is not really precise – which is often the case with texts debated in the context of parliamentary niches. You refer everything to an organic law whose terms we do not know. It's too bad, because we could, maybe,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u45	Yes?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u46	...defining thresholds and deepening our thinking. On the substance, and this is even more serious, the text would actually lead to making the elected one, throughout his mandate, entirely dependent on the slightest movement of public opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u47	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u48	What would happen in a crisis like the one we're going through? As elected officials, we have responsibilities that are not always simple to exercise: we sometimes have to take measures that are not really popular, such as the creation of the health pass, and then that of the vaccination pass. Almost no one is happy with these provisions, so imagine that it is enough for 5% of the population to be able to remove elected officials: we could never make such decisions. That is not how democracy is soothed! We need to dialogue and debate in serenity. We must no doubt reflect on a more serene and peaceful public debate, and on how representative democracy and participatory democracy can be articulated. As I said, on the next day on which the agenda will be reserved for our group, we will make strong proposals – this will in particular be the case of our chairman, Sylvain Waserman. Faced with the wave of unacceptable threats that many of us have been facing in recent times, it must be recalled that our independence is not a personal privilege but a protection of the mandate granted to us by the French people – this people you seem to love so much –, a mandate that we legitimately exercise freely until its end. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] Mr rapporteur, your proposal puts in jeopardy a fundamentally republican principle. As a result, you will understand, the MODEM group will oppose your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u49	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u50	One Frenchman in two does not know his deputy, and four in ten Frenchmen question the usefulness of the National Assembly. Abstention only increased, exceeding the terrifying figure of 65 per cent in the regional elections. The diagnosis of a democracy crisis has long been established. Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote it in Du Contrat social, talking about the voter: as soon as he elected his representatives, he is no longer anything. While participatory democracy strives to take into account this criticism, the distrust of civil society towards the rulers remains very strong and finds its roots in the current functioning of our institutions: strong executive, majority making, centralisation of decisions by the administration, weakness of Parliament... We therefore agree with the statement, Mr rapporteur, but the proposed remedy, namely the dismissal of an elected member during a referendum, calls for a number of observations. Decision-making referendums are provided for in the Constitution, which defines their purpose. It does not mention the dismissal of elected officials. It was therefore a constitutional bill that had to be tabled. We understand that it is not accompanied by a proposal for an organic law since it is, at this stage, a matter of discussing a principle. The proposed device has been the subject of much discussion, particularly since the movement of the yellow vests. It exists in other countries, but in other contexts and in other forms. I am thinking in particular of the American recall. This mechanism is likely to cause permanent instability – it is the criticism it is most frequently made. Indeed, it is healthy, in a democracy, for elected officials to be able to complete their mandate. At its conclusion, voters have the freedom to return or not to leave the country. I fear that the gradual emergence in France of hatred and distrust of representation will find in this system a soil that will make them prosper. Long time is indeed a necessity and a guarantee for an elected official to be able to carry out quality policies. However, the new temporality induced by your proposal would put the risk that the latter would be in the sole search for the short-term satisfaction of its electorate. The revocation procedure could lead elected officials to govern in sight with one main objective: do not displease. In our view, this is a way of introducing the imperative mandate, which is contrary to our Constitution and which would call into question the freedom of assessment of the elected representative, a principle dear to us. To respond to the desertion of polling stations, citizens would be asked to return more often...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u51	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u52	... with the idea that the candidate they choose will not necessarily serve for five or six years. Is this the best way to encourage them to weigh their choice? Is building a system based on doubt about the commitment of elected officials the best way to restore confidence in politics and politics? However, responses to the weakening of representativeness must be provided. The ban on the cumulation of office, which we voted in 2014, fully contributes to the requirement that we owe to our voters, that of a readable mandate, without conflicts of interest, leaving the Member of Parliament free to develop in the territory tools for the participation and association of citizens – workshops, citizen juries, local referendum. A real articulation of work between local and national elected officials – regardless of political affiliation – is also necessary. We need to overcome the obstacle posed by governments, jealous of their prerogatives. In situ monitoring of the implementation of the texts we have voted on must become a reality. For this, the law must help us to go to prefectures, but also to elected assemblies and courts. Still, in order to maintain confidence in deliberative democracy, there must be no monstrous mismatch between the expressed expectation – I am thinking, for example, of the great debate or the Citizens' Convention for the Climate – and the decisions it provokes, at least not without a clear explanation and an adversarial debate. The political response may not coincide with what we have before us, but revocation is not the solution. There is no doubt that we need to find mechanisms to improve the representation of elected officials and meet expectations, especially those of young people. There is an urgent need to strengthen the political responsibility of the National Assembly. Article 49 of the Constitution establishes the principle of the responsibility of the Government and article 50 provides for the cases in which he must resign, but the majority act renders these provisions almost inoperative. That is why we must work, as part of a forthcoming constitutional review, to implement an individual responsibility of ministers before the National Assembly. The procedure should be well supervised, but it would be such as to change the attitude of the executive to the legislative power and that of the citizens to the National Assembly. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches in the Dem group]] As you understand, the Socialist and related group will vote against this constitutional bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u53	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u54	As an observer of political life, I had criticized the parliamentary niches at the time they were established. Since then, I've changed my point of view. They allow the different groups to take on another role: in this case, we can see what the group La France insoumée has in store and pass its proposals to the scrutinise of our critical analysis, even if it is a little harsh. Mr rapporteur, we can only follow you with regard to the objective of your text: to remedy the loss of confidence of citizens and to combat abstention. We all agree, it is necessary to reinvigorate our institutional system. I have therefore looked with interest and seriousness at the provisions that you propose to adopt. I assure you: I am not going, from where I am – I imagine that for some I am a Marais Montagnard, since I sit at the top of the Chamber – to open a constitutionalist debate. Without going into the technical aspects of your text, let me tell you that it leaves me a little perplexed. You are proposing a system of dismissal of elected officials on a popular initiative that would allow, during the term of office, to get rid of a President of the Republic, a Member of Parliament or Senator, or a local elected person, at the end of the first third of the term of office and before his last year. Let's put the constitutional debate aside and do some politics-fiction. What would happen if this provision came into force? Some bitter beatings would begin, the day after their defeat, to gather the signatures that would allow them, after the first third of their victorious opponent's term of office, to carry out his eviction. As soon as possible, we would seek to disrupt the chosen person's agenda. On the side of the chosen one, your device would also not be without consequence, admittedly. He would do anything to try to please, to the point of necessarily leading populist policies; its choices would no longer be determined on the basis of the public interest, or even of a well-thought-out public opinion, but by the threat of a potential revocation procedure. Such a proposal is therefore not entirely serious. You defend yourself, but you are in fact seeking to establish the imperative mandate, which forces the elected one to do only what he was elected for. Moreover, on what basis would it be possible to revoke an elected official if you did not, in fact, establish the mandatory mandate? In order for your constitutional bill to be complete, it would therefore have been necessary to amend article 27 of the Constitution, according to which "any mandatory mandate is void". [[Mrs Sabine Rubin exclaimed]] Require the elected one to do only what he has announced is to prevent him from improvising or adapting to the reality of the moment. Under these conditions, what would have happened during the crisis of the yellow vests or that of the covid, which could not be foreseen at the time of the election campaign? Your system would also require action at the pace required by the revocation proceedings, which are still pending above the heads of the elected officials. Imagine for a moment how the country would work! The executive's responsibility could be called into question every day, as well as the mandate of parliamentarians, regional, departmental or municipal elected officials. There would be many by-elections, successive changes of majority... Would this really lead to better participation, with less abstention, to more confidence in the institutions? In fact, our compatriots wouldn't understand anything about it anymore. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] One can of course seek to improve representation, talk about introducing proportional representation, want greater citizen participation; the probity of elected officials can be strengthened – much has been done in this regard; One can want to increase knowledge of politics and develop education. But the proposal made to us is unrealistic, idealistic and, somewhere, surreal. It has some populist contours in view of which the Group of the European People's Party will obviously vote against.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u55	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u56	This proposal for a constitutional law has a major merit: to point the finger at the greatest danger that undoubtedly threatens our country, beyond even those we regularly debate, such as climate change: it is simply the one that threatens democracy. Indeed, a growing number of our citizens are permanently moving away from the democratic fact. The 2017 general elections were the ones with the highest abstention rate under the Fifth Republic. The same was true for the municipal elections of 2020, and the departmental and regional elections of 2021. For some local elections, never such levels of abstention – which the health crisis is not enough to explain – had been achieved. The quinquennium that ends has its share of responsibility in the worsening of this democratic crisis. The situation is such that a number of our fellow citizens no longer have any opinion, envy or confidence in our democratic system. In a book published in 2017, Brice Teinturier called the "PRAF", as "no more to do, no more to fuck", those people who are so indifferent that they no longer seek to know whether the democratic regime is the best or, failing that, the worst except for all others. In the face of this crisis, there is obviously no one-size-fits-all solution. This is not the assumption you have chosen to defend. Like many others on these benches, you make a number of proposals, whether constitutional or not, to try to counter the withdrawal of a growing number of our fellow citizens from political and democratic life. Within five minutes, I will not be able to mention the technical modalities of the proposed arrangement – for which the text refers to an organic law. So I will stick to the principles. We cannot support the proposal for a citizens' initiative referendum to dismiss elected officials. The philosophy behind this text brings us back two hundred and twenty years, because the debate about whether universal suffrage, which commands representative democracy, can or cannot be put in competition with other forms of political action and citizen representation, has already been decided during the French Revolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u57	He's coming up again!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u58	With this proposal, you question the principle of representativeness, and therefore the supremacy of universal suffrage. The sovereign choice of voters who express themselves at a moment T, whether in the context of a local election or that of the President of the Republic, could thus be competed, a few years later, by the choice of some to call for the revocation of an elected one. That's what blooms good Robespierre and the Public Salvation Committee! But that makes no sense in our democratic life, unless you intend to call our system of representation completely into question, and hence universal suffrage. For philosophical consistency, you could also propose, in addition to revocation, a method of appointing representatives of the people by drawing lots. We cannot follow you either because, as far as parliamentarians are concerned, certain grounds for dismissal would be contrary to Article 27 of the Constitution, which states that any mandatory mandate is null and void and that the voting rights of Members of Parliament are personal. It would be contrary to these provisions to make the action of a parliamentarian and his capacity as representative of the people dependent on the decision of a group, even a majority, in the eyes of which the elected representative would not have done the work for which he was chosen correctly – for example, because he failed to defend sufficiently certain themes arising from what might be termed new claims books. For this reason – one among others – the UDI-I Group will oppose your proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u59	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u60	Like so many other European countries, France is experiencing a major democratic crisis and a lack of confidence in political power and elected officials. The problem is not new, but it is growing from year to year. The gap between the representatives of the people and the citizens who choose them continues to grow. The bill before us seeks to address this mistrust. The objective is commendable, and I personally agree with the principle. However, we do not believe that the proposed solution is the most appropriate, for several reasons. First of all, while our democracy is already suffering from short-termism, this bill could worsen the situation. The management of a State, such as that of a territorial community, whether a commune, a department or a region, requires a long-term project. However, with the culture of immediacy conveyed by the media system and social networks, modern democracies suffer from a difficulty in building long-term public policies, in seeking the way of the general interest. The electoral system already offers relatively balanced mandates, although further consideration should be given to the number of mandates that could be exercised successively. Personally, I am in favour of limiting them to two, provided that they establish a real status for the elected candidate, in order to make his mission readable and sacralize it. Today, the President of the Republic and the deputies are elected for five years, while the senators and the various local elected representatives are elected for six years. This already encourages elected officials to spend a significant part of their term of office campaigning instead of focusing on the exercise of the mandate itself. Establishing a right to remove local elected officials could make the situation worse. Indeed, for fear of being dismissed, the priority of elected officials will be to immediately please their fellow citizens and seek to manage controversial ephemerals instead of focusing on their work. Furthermore, the introduction of a right to the dismissal of elected officials under the conditions laid down in the draft law could lead to the establishment of new intermediate elections after a third of the term of office. Indeed, the opposition parties would unite to obtain the necessary signatures to trigger the procedure, and the elected candidate in office, less than two years after his election, should submit to a referendum directed against him. Meeting the necessary signatures would be easier if the percentage of voters required was low. Your proposal for a constitutional law also refers to a decree defining it. Finally, this measure of revocation departs from the desire for a more participatory democracy. Participatory democracy requires the direct involvement of citizens in decision-making, while the removal of elected officials focuses on the personalization of power. In order to combat mistrust, it is necessary to increase the accountability of elected officials, by giving them more means of action and, of course, by involving citizens more in the decision-making process. But we agree: restoring confidence inevitably requires constitutional reform to make elected officials more accountable. In our view, the Republic must be transformed into a decentralized Republic and have a strengthened Parliament. Parliament should be able to actually write the law rather than simply endorse what the Government decides, as is all too often the case. Local and regional authorities, for their part, should be transferred large blocks of competence, as is the case in all neighbouring European countries, and should have genuine fiscal autonomy and decision-making power. We believe that decisions should be taken as far as possible at the nearest level, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. In short, it is a matter of making elected representatives more accountable and bringing the places and the decision-making channels closer to the people. In our view, a parliamentarian or a local elected official with real powers and close to the citizens would not give rise to distrust, which is now due to his inability to act. Finally, it seems to us desirable to get out of the hyper-presidentialism that characterizes the Fifth Republic, the presidential election alone deciding the destiny of France for five years. This election puts forward a personality to the detriment of ideas and the search for consensus, and contributes to the excessive personification of politics in France and to the accountability of other elected officials. On the other hand, a model of federal democracy based on the search for consensus, as it exists in Germany for example, would be preferable to address the long-term challenges facing society and thus to reduce distrust. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the end, trust in elected officials is an essential issue for our democracy – which is, you are right, in a very bad position. But trust cannot be decreed by making a threat above the elected ones and by throwing on them an additional and generalized suspicion. That is why the majority of the members of the Freedom and Territory Group will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u62	The general discussion is closed. On the single article of the bill, I am seized by the group La France insoubted of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Alexis Corbière, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u63	As you will understand, we have taken the option of presenting you with a text which the finest jurists among our colleagues have noted that it could be improved, because our will was above all to discuss the principle. Arguments were put forward; They are completely respectable and deserve an answer. Indeed, there is a philosophical and political disagreement between us, and that is perhaps what makes this debate nobility. Some colleagues pointed out that our bill disguised the promotion of the imperative mandate, which they spent a lot of time criticizing. That's absolutely not true. The Venice Commission, which examined the various examples of the application of the right of revocation, pointed out that it was completely separate from the mandatory mandate. This argument does not hold. Moreover, agreement should be reached on the nature of the mandate given to the elected representative, the representative or the representative – the manner in which it is designated is of historical and political importance. During the French Revolution, many preferred the term proxy, wanting to mark that a mandate was given. Besides, all of you, when you introduce yourself, you talk about your mandate, in the same way that the President of the Republic has a mandate. If this word is used in the political debate, it is good to evoke a commitment; It is not a position that is held, but a mandate that has been given. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] But if we may have to avoid any mandatory mandate, I am just as opposed to what might be called a recreational mandate, which is to do what we want! The keeper of the seals, with the verva that is known to him, said basically: "Corbière, if I listen to you to the end, it is the people who decide". Yes! The people must keep control.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u64	I object to the expression: "to restore trust", because trust is a feeling: as a republican, these are rights that I want. Trust will be restored once rights are acquired. It is therefore less a question of pretending to restore confidence than of knowing what new rights we give to citizens so that they can control the elected ones. Why would it make the situation worse? Why, when many of our fellow citizens are not satisfied by the representative, would the possibility of a revocative referendum aggravate the situation? Do you not see that many of the events that we have experienced painfully during the parliamentary term result from the fact that a significant number of our fellow citizens – and indeed a majority, I fear – consider that the democratic system no longer allows them to be heard and that the elected representatives have completely detached themselves from those they are supposed to represent?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u65	You'll be the first to jump!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u66	Abstention is a fundamental problem that you have not answered. To avoid controversy, let's take my own case: I was only elected by 21% of the registered voters in my constituency. And you're in the same situation! You denounce the risk of giving power to an active minority, but like me, you are elected by a small minority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u67	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u68	Rather than contenting themselves with having been appointed by a minority, should we not lay down the conditions for a return of the people to the ballot box? Should we not, in order to convince the abstainers to participate again in elections, give them new opportunities to do so? We have deliberately given up laying down an organic law in order to concentrate our discussions on the very principle of the revocative referendum. Suppose the trigger threshold is set at 20%. That would be huge, since that's the score you probably got to get elected. Our fellow citizens are good people; No one wants to have fun calling elections all the time. So it's not out of fantasy that someone could be able to convince 20% of voters in an electoral district to start the referendum process! This would simply mean that a significant part of the electorate, which you consider to be legitimate enough to send you to the National Assembly, wishes to return to the vote in order to know whether the one who represents it is really legitimate. How would this make the situation worse? On the contrary, it would only improve it, restore it to a virtuous character, set the conditions for decisions to be taken in the name of the people. I'm worried that some of you say, "We need to be able to make difficult decisions, courageous decisions. This semantic field, what does it mean? That we should be able to rule against the people. Well, I disagree. You charge us with demagogy,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u69	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u70	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... but see what we have achieved: here, in the temple of the Republic, Members of Parliament say that the advantage of our institutions is that they allow us to act even if the people no longer agree with us. It's intellectually terrifying!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u71	That's not what this is about!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u72	"It's good for the Committee of Public Salvation," you say. That's the big deal. And I'd be a potato marat? Mr Larrivé also mentioned the memory of Lepeletier de Saint-Fargeau, so these are two deputies who were stabbed by enemies of the Republic. Preferring to be on the side of Jean-Paul Marat and Lepeletier de Saint-Fargeau rather than those who murder MPs, I am proud, in essence, to be compared to those who sought to secure popular sovereignty. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] This is a false debate. Such arguments do not make sense. Were there any deaths during the French Revolution? Yes, as there were during all the centuries of monarchy and still after. Adolphe Thiers massacred more than 27,000 communiards; A picture of him, however, is famous in a room close to the Chamber, which no one here has considered necessary to have removed. Yes, the history of France was tragic but at the heart of the French Revolution there was an exciting debate: how is popular sovereignty expressed? How can we ensure, in a representative system, that decisions are not taken by brutalizing the popular will, but in a living connection with it? The crisis in which we are today is, I repeat, particularly worrying. The minister, who left, said: "With your system, after six months you can be revoked. He should have read the text: the process could only be initiated after a third of a mandate, or about 18 months. Above all, he says that the intermediate elections are an opportunity to check that everything is going well. As the keeper of seals is a robust man, who likes polemic, I would like to underline the arrogance of this answer, knowing that he himself obtained, in the regional elections, only 9% of the votes obtained from 30% of voters, that is, 2%,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u73	You didn't even go!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] ...without drawing any conclusion! And he allows himself to come and parade? Ministers who have chosen to appear before voters only obtain quasi-residual scores,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u75	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u76	...and we're not drawing any conclusions, no one's landed from the government? How do you want voters to take them seriously? Colleagues, it doesn't go well, it arouses disgust, anger. Why did all these ministers see fit to stand in the regional elections? For a job? I hope not. I know you, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, you are a disinterested woman; You probably went there to check with voters that your policy was gaining popular support. You, like others, have only got 9% of just 30% of people mobilized,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u77	It's easy for you to say, you didn't go!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u78	I was elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u79	...and you have not drawn any conclusions. Not a single minister has changed. Politics has not changed. We are facing a blockage, a deterioration of the situation. You mentioned the "trust" law, the great national debate that followed the yellow vest crisis, the Citizen Climate Convention. The latter is an interesting example. You have not accepted any of his conclusions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u80	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u81	...or at least, you've retained only a small minority. The President of the Republic had undertaken to take them back "without a filter", with the exception of three measures. You have to believe that he decided to put on a hell of a filter,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u82	National representation has played its part!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u83	The filter was the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u84	...since, with the exception of a few measures, he did not take any of his conclusions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u85	Stop saying anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u86	Colleague, be modest. What I'm saying is the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u87	When you say things wrong, you just react! We're not going to debate again!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u88	It is not true that all the decisions of the Citizens' Convention on Climate have been adopted. It was used as an argument in this gallery a few minutes ago to say that it was proof that you had done the right thing to restore confidence. I'm saying that's not true. I'm sweeping a few arguments...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u89	With your usual bad faith!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u90	Please, be elegant if you don't be convincing,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u91	No, I'm not elegant, I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u92	...because every time you speak, I could tell you the same. Rather than being insulting, which does not honour you, you should think about democratic tools to prevent our exchanges from taking on this hurtful side. The provisions that I propose exist in some countries that have not yet experienced the chaos that you describe. They allow for more interesting democratic breaths and make the citizen a respected actor in public life, rather than allowing him to intervene only every five years. [["Ah! »on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Earlier, it was said that our proposals were populist in nature. We owe our colleague Euzet an impressive collection of words in "ists": idealist, unrealistic, surrealist, populist... But we touch the bottom of the subject and I come to what may be a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u93	He said "maybe"!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u94	Colleagues, frankly...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u95	Go on, sir!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u96	You're exciting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u97	Depends on who it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u98	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That word you find insulting, populist, I'm going to take it back. What does it mean? That we want to check, when we have the honour of exercising a mandate, that we remain representatives of the people, that we do not put them at a distance, that we do not want to act against them? In that case, populist, yes, I am. I prefer being rather than being "populophobe", as some claim, and to be content with institutions that continue to run even though they only bring together a minority of people. [[Claims on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] A President of the Republic, François Hollande, had even said that what is good in the Fifth Republic is that, even when you are unpopular, you can continue to act. May the highest officials of the Republic think this way, it irritates my blood. The violence that is rising in the country, which we all condemn,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u99	Let's give it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u100	... must find a peaceful, democratic response. If we have to go more to the polls to check that your decisions, that our proposals are popularly supported, we will. What is virtuous when we call the people to the polls is that we try to convince, that we campaign, and for that it takes programs, it takes time for programs to circulate. I would like to take this opportunity to say to our colleagues in the La République group on the move – a good listener, it is time for the President of the Republic to declare himself a candidate,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u101	He does what he wants! He chooses his calendar as he pleases, as you choose yours as you please!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u102	[[Vif applause on the benches of the FI group]] ... because the way he hides himself in a non-candidature is also a way to despise our institutions. We don't take the people by surprise, but by ideas!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u103	I now call the single article of the bill in the text originally before the House because the committee has not adopted a text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u104	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u105	This article provides for the dismissal of elected officials, President of the Republic, deputies, senators, mayors and other local elected officials by referendum of popular initiative. The purpose of the RIP, which is commonly called the RIP, is to return the word to the people. Indeed, the people have sovereignty and must be able to remove the representatives they have elected under conditions to be defined. Why is this necessary? First, to give citizens a taste for politics. We cannot, without acting, see that voters are increasingly pushing the ballot box. Trust is broken because too often we see shortcomings on the part of elected officials. The people are not deceived with regard to elected officials or groups of elected officials: those who, corrupt, escape justice, those who are heavily condemned but remain in office, those who do not respect their programme, for whom they have been elected, those who do not respect the freedom and dignity of people, those who abuse their power, those who do not exercise their functions but take compensation... We have examples. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Inventing a method of revoking the elected candidate will be a way to make the office more noble and to bring the voters back into the insulator. This will help to drive away those who seek a mandate to serve interests other than that of the people. To vote for this article is therefore to show responsibility. [[Same movements]] I ask you not to be afraid of the people. Please excuse my frankness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u106	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u107	In your speech, Mr Corbière, you spoke of a subject which the Democratic Group finds very important. You have spoken of the responsibility of the people, who must be placed in parallel with the responsibility of the elected one with regard to the decisions that it has to take. Yes, Mr Corbière, it is the people who decide, we fully agree, but a democracy is institutions, rules, which must enable the people to decide and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u108	It's laborious! We don't understand!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u109	With what you're proposing, we're getting out of the rule of law and entering an era of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u110	How can you say that, with all the provisions that you have voted for that restrict public freedoms?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u111	Mrs. Obono, I listened to your colleague without yelling,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u112	You've spent your time screaming!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u113	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono protested]] ...let me go until the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u114	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] That's right, democracy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u115	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Colleagues, please listen to the speaker. That's the least respect we owe him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u116	[[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] Mr Corbière's remarks were interesting because they show two visions of what democracy can be. Ours is to give all the keys to the people to clean up the public debate, to adopt a calm and constructive approach. As for you, you are at every moment in confrontation. I will conclude with the words of a philosopher, who is also a political figure dear to our democracy:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u117	Thank you for concluding, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u118	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] ... for him, as for our group, democracy is "the social organization that tends to maximize the civic awareness and responsibility of everyone. These words are Marc Sangnier!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u119	We have completed our review of the single section of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u120	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u121	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 89 Number of votes cast 89 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 16 Against 73
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u122	The next item is the proposal for a law on the nationalisation of motorway concessionary companies (No 4742, 4860).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u123	Mrs Bénédicte Taurine, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u124	Like my colleague François Ruffin last week in committee, I will begin my speech, ladies and gentlemen, by inviting you to guess the authors of two quotations: "Our fellow citizens feel that highway companies are running on their backs. "; "The licensor, or rather the user,... pays all the risks. » You were the first to speak, Mr. Deputy Minister responsible for Transport, when you were a Member of Parliament. You were still relatively free from your words and wanted to renationalize highways! The second is taken from a statement by Bernard Roman, also a former Member of Parliament and now President of the Autorité de régulation des transports (ART). Why does the La France insubmissive group consider that motorway contracts are a source of dysfunction and that concessionary companies must be nationalised? It should be remembered that at the beginning of the history of the motorways, the legislator had the insight to entrust their operation to companies of mixed economy (SEM) held by the Caisse des dépôts et consignations and by the territorial authorities concerned. Nor will I dwell on the fact that the brief experience of private management conducted between 1970 and 1983 resulted in a failure, which led the public authorities to buy back the capital of the delegates. Twenty years ago, for questionable reasons – modest and immediate deleveraging, at the price of waiving public dividends and control levers – and under poorly controlled conditions, the Jospin, Raffarin and Villepin governments reduced, and then fully divested, the state's stakes in so-called historical concessionary companies, while the stakes in so-called recent concessionary companies were immediately allocated to private individuals. These operations brought 16.5 billion euros to the state, a loss of 6.5 billion according to the Senate, and placed three groups of the building and public works in a position of strength. It should be remembered that thirteen of the seventeen private concessionary companies belong to Vinci, Eiffage or the Spanish company Abertis. The end of the concessions is expected to take place between 2031 and 2036, with some contracts running even until 2086, but so far the executive has had the unfortunate tendency to extend them to every reform, so that their horizon is increasingly misty. As this landscape has been brushed, I now want to mention the main drift of highway companies, which is to enrich themselves on the backs of the state, users and taxpayers. I agree with the comments of the Autorité de la concurrence and the Court of Auditors, which have found the profitability of the concessionaires to be "exceptional". With a dividend redistribution rate often close to 100%, Vinci and Eiffage have already more than recovered their initial bet and Abertis is moving towards the same success. The profits expected by these companies within the next 15 years are disproportionately high, for four reasons. First of all, as the Autorité de la concurrence pointed out and contrary to the very principle of concession, the concession companies do not assume any real risk: the development of traffic is favourable, the contracts exclude any decrease in the price of tolls and, as we saw in 2020, the loss of one tenth of their revenue due to the absence of traffic has in no way affected the profits of these companies. Secondly, the toll rate is increasing automatically, not only because it is moving faster than inflation, as the Court of Auditors denounced in 2013 and as recently verified by user associations, but also because it still retains the most dynamic index for the cost of work, contrary to the recommendations of INSEE and the European Commission. Third, down from the common sense and recommendations of the Council of State, the groups that own most of the concessionaire companies have obtained compensation for any increase in the two taxes that specifically affect them. They will also be able to retain the enjoyment of certain tax niches that the Government had tried in vain to clean up. Finally, agreements and their amendments are silent on the social obligations of companies, while car parks or the installation of tolls are considered to be "environmental operations". We see this, we must act quickly and act quickly, hence our proposal to buy back the concessionaire companies so that they no longer obey the interests of the shareholders of the major groups, who have taken over them, but rather to the general interest. Is this nationalization possible? In fact, it is provided for in the concession contracts themselves and is part of the solid jurisprudence of the Council of State and the Constitutional Council. There is, in fact, a constitutional principle superior to any law and contract clause, which prohibits public persons from making compensation manifestly disproportionate to the damage suffered, as Mr Paul Cassia, professor of public law, recalled. Similarly, the Council of State recalled that the investment compensation was due only if the property could not be amortized during the period of performance of the contract. On the basis of the financial imbalance of autoroutian concessions at the expense of the public accounts and the user portfolio, an imbalance denounced by all the political groups, if I believe the positions expressed during the examination of the draft law in the Finance Committee, the executive should have decided that contracts should be broken in advance. But the regulatory authority is not concerned about this, hence the need for this bill. What would be the cost of nationalizing the concessionaire companies? Mr Minister, you are referring to the figure of EUR 47 billion, but your services say they have never been asked to work on the subject. In addition, a former Minister of Economy, now President of the Republic, advanced an amount of $20 billion. In my report, I show that the expenditure could be reduced to no more than 15 billion, since some sums have already been paid twice by the French and therefore not intended to be included in the compensation paid to Vinci, Eiffage and Abertis. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In conclusion, in order to put an end to the scandalous profits of the motorway companies, to support a more ecological and fairer planning of the territory and to comply with the demand of many of our fellow citizens, in particular the yellow vests, which are trapped in these de facto monopolies, it is necessary to radically change the application of the concession clauses by transferring to the State the shares of the concession companies, without waiting, as you call it, for the end of the contracts, which are constantly prolonged under various pretexts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u125	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u126	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let me offer you my best wishes for this new year. Before I discuss in more detail the bill that brings us together today, I want to tell you that I find it healthy that we are debating the future of autoroutian concessions. The quotation which the rapporteur gives me has been somewhat shortened, but I welcome this debate. This is obviously not the first time that Parliament has seized the subject, because motorways are part of French life: they are part of their daily lives, of their movements, of their landscape; They borrow them to go to work, to join their families, to shop or to go on vacation. It is because they are so rooted in their lives, so indispensable for their mobility, so important for our territories, that they deserve a demanding debate. In any case, they deserve better than shortcuts and simplistic ideas. First of all, we must remember that our motorways are a model of modernity, comfort and safety, thanks in particular to the professionalism of State agents in the monitoring and control of concessions, thanks also to the model of concessions. This model may not be perfect, but without it, our country would not have the same face and the mobility of our fellow citizens would probably be very different. Created by the Law of 18 April 1955 on the status of motorways, the concession model allowed the development of a network of roads of more than 9,000 kilometres, at a rate that would not otherwise have been possible. It generated over €50 billion in tax revenues between 2006 and 2018 and invested €20 billion in motorway assets. Moreover, the privatisation of the incumbent concessionaire companies has helped to reduce the State's debt, strengthen the Agence de financement des infrastructures de transport de France (AFITF) and finance new infrastructure. There is no robust calculation or analysis to demonstrate the over-rentability of the concessionaire companies. Many figures are circulating, but they are often wrong because the economic model of these companies is characterized by very large investments compared to other operating costs. The ART, which you mentioned, the rapporteur, said in her July 2020 report that there were no over-profits from the dealers. In 2015, the parliamentary working group on the future of motorways had reached the same conclusion. This should not prevent us from rethinking this model, quite the contrary. As you know, the current contracts will end between 2031 and 2036. It is therefore an opportunity to draw up a critical assessment of our model of financing and infrastructure management, without complacency or demagogy. It is also an opportunity to reflect on how to do better, for the benefit of the French, without sacrificing neither the safety nor the quality of our motorways. It is an idea that I believe we all share: it is the need to better regulate contracts. In this regard, 2015 marked a decisive step. The motorway recovery plan and the law, known as Macron, for economic growth, activity and equal opportunities, which you also mentioned, have made it possible to rebalance the relations between the state and the motorway concession companies (SCA). A mechanism has been introduced to limit potential over-profits in historical contracts: in case of over-profit, toll rates are reduced or the duration of the concession is reduced. On the other hand, the State recovers all the savings made by the SCA on investments, resulting from time lags or project abandonments. Finally, a strictly independent regulatory authority in the field of motorways has been created: the Authority for the Regulation of Railway and Road Activities (ARAFER), which has been established since the ART. It produces an annual summary of the accounts of the concessionaire companies and, every five years, a report on the profitability of the contracts – the first was published at the end of July 2020. Finally, with regard to transparency, since 2009, Parliament has been receiving a report every year on the execution and control of contracts for the concession of motorways and works of art, and another on the development of tolls for each motorway operator. In addition, the 2015 Act required the electronic provision of motorway contracts to the public. We have made progress, therefore, but we can do better and we must plan, anticipate and reflect on the future of concession contracts. Reflections were launched jointly by my Ministry and the Ministry of Economy, Finance and Recovery. The State has already undertaken a precise and consensual inventory of assets returning from concessions. But this work must also be done in response to the impact of the health crisis, where the risks associated with the decline in traffic have also materialised. Several avenues are on the table and parliamentarians, elected representatives and stakeholders will naturally be involved in this work. In order not to hide anything from you, Madam rapporteur, the track defended by the group La France insoumée is not one of those envisaged,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u127	Ah, that's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u128	... for a simple reason: if we are in part in agreement with the statement made, we disagree with the proposed solution which, according to your group, would be obvious – you would, you say, have to interrupt the contracts before they end. But it's not a solution; This would result in an extraordinarily costly expenditure on public expenditure, since in such a case the contracts provide that the concessionaires will be entitled to compensation corresponding to the damage suffered, i.e. EUR 47 billion. And it's not a solution because the state – the state in the broad sense, that is, all the taxpayers – has no interest in buying back at this exorbitant price concessions that will come back to it anyway in ten years – and on the scale of the duration of the concessions, 2031, is tomorrow. Nor is this a solution because it would increase our public debt by the amount of the debts of the concessionaire companies, which amounted to almost 30 billion euros at the end of 2017. Quite frankly, I believe that our public finances do not need this, especially in the context of the current crisis. Above all, this is not a solution because it would probably not benefit users. No, Madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, a purchase of concessions does not guarantee the disappearance of tolls or the reduction of their prices for the French. That is the reality; Here's the facts. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, the Government is opposed to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u129	What a renunciation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u130	In the general debate, Mr François Ruffin spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u131	Thierry Breton, Bruno Le Maire, Dominique de Villepin, Élisabeth Borne, Alexis Kohler, Emmanuel Macron. What do all these people have in common? They organized together, by their incompetence or by their malice, the looting of the motorways of France. They turned the motorists into milk cows of SANEF – Société des autoroutes du Nord et de l'Est de la France –, Eiffage and Vinci. They have caused the French state to lose 15 billion euros – I insist: 15 billion. Whether you imagine an employee, an executive or a cashier who would make his box lose 10,000 euros, 100,000 euros, sometimes just a steak or even a pencil, or even a voucher: this employee would be summoned to his management, would be entitled to a disciplinary board and would risk dismissal for fault. But these people, Breton, Le Maire, Villepin, Borne, Kohler and Macron, when were they punished for this giant looting? Never! When were they pushed in front of an arena, a court, to justify themselves and explain themselves? Never! When did they collect millions from their bank accounts to make up for their mistakes? Never! On the contrary – and this is the most wonderful, the most extraordinary – they have since obtained a promotion! They have become minister, European Commissioner, Secretary-General of the Elysée or even President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u132	The President is elected!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u133	They squandered public money, they did not pay attention to it; And yet, they were left with the cheque book. We need to get back to the history of this disaster quickly. It was from Bercy, from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, that "this sublime idea that was to privatize motorways" started, as Jean-Pierre Raffarin ironically said. But then politicians resisted, and I want to quote them without sectarianism, to avoid the "all rotten." Gilles de Robien, former mayor of Amiens, at the time minister of transport, says: "Each minister of finance [...] receives me, with his side always the same adviser, supporter of the privatization of highways. I'm told we have to sell the highways because it'll lower the government's debt. But I had [made] a study [...]. It concluded that motorways were a financial manna for the state. That's how I was able to resist Bercy. Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin decided in my favour. » But once Raffarin left Matignon, Bercy came to take revenge. In 2006, the motorways were sold to Vinci and the company for an undervalued sum of EUR 10 billion. Ten billion euros less! And the dividends pleased the shareholders. This is the first gabegie, coming from the right and denounced by reports – contrary to your denial, Mr. Deputy Minister – from the Court of Auditors, the Senate and the Assembly, concluding with the "exceptional profitability" of the motorways, "assimilable to an annuity". What did the left do when he returned to the government? She added a second layer. Élisabeth Borne, who worked at Eiffage as Director of Concessions and maintained friendships there, Élisabeth Borne, therefore, is responsible for renegotiating with the motorway companies, including Eiffage. It is assumed that the dialogue was not too tense. Accompanied by Alexis Kohler, she proposed a "Memorandum of Understanding" which once again proved disastrous for the state. I want here, once again, not to throw all the leaders in the same bag: Alain Vidalies, then Secretary of State for Transport, refuses to sign the memorandum of understanding. Emmanuel Macron, for his part, the sign; He's so proud that he's going to do everything for four years to keep him secret. And it will take a judicial battle, an opinion of the Council of State, for the content to be revealed. What's he planning? An extension of the ten-year concession period, rising toll rates and even a ban on the State raising taxes on the companies concerned, which is an estimated gift of €5 billion this time – making a total of €15 billion, once the 10 billion mentioned have been added. The balance sheet is a gigantic and formidable gavage of autoroutous companies and their shareholders; It is billions, tens of billions that are missing for a transport transition, for rail freight and for daily lines. The balance sheet is tolls that, for all, for the average Frenchman, increase faster than inflation – the increase is expected to reach 2% in February. Are you going, Minister Delegate, to validate or not to validate this expected increase? So, what can we do? Nothing, nothing, we are told: with this contract, the state has tied hands. You are telling us that you are refusing our solution, but, Mr. Deputy Minister, you have not proposed any of them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u134	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u135	I see too much, behind your sorry airs – "nothing can be done" – behind your false regrets, your complicity. Can't we do anything? Yes! If, we can still, we can still: we can break this contract or renegotiate it, but you don't want to. And even worse! Since you were in power, this highway scandal has not been a lesson. You have continued the great warehousing by delivering to the financiers our national treasures: La Française des jeux, les airports, Engie. And you even allow national roads to be privatized from now on; you open the possibility. One by one, you offer your friends our golden egg chickens. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Christine Pires Beaune also applauds]] By financing you, the rich and the shareholders did not make a donation: they made an investment, and I hope that the French and the French will no longer give power to men who make the choice of money rather than that of people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u136	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u137	For some of us, they are inevitable; They are sometimes synonymous with holidays, but for others it is a chore. I am not talking about venals, but, of course, about motorways, which millions of our fellow citizens use on a daily basis. It is their inevitable nature that makes our debate of the day absolutely indispensable. Moreover, the demand for nationalisation of motorway concessionaires is not a new subject, since since the transfer in 2005 of all public interests held by the State, the accumulated rent, the dividends distributed to shareholders, constitute a real state scandal; A state scandal that communist parliamentarians have repeatedly denounced in recent years. As early as 2014, we tabled a bill demanding the renationalization of concessionary companies, a proposal renewed in February 2019 and defended in March of the same year in the Senate by the CRCE group – communist, Republican, citizen and environmentalist. It will therefore surprise no one that we are in favour of voting on this text, especially since in recent years the front of those who denounce this financial scandal has been vastly and inevitably enlarged. Even the Court of Auditors and the Autorité de la concurrence can no longer offer State offerings to a handful of companies which arrogate all the powers, from the terms of the concessions to the work carried out on the network. At present, twenty concessionaires, mainly controlled by three major industrial groups, are in fact responsible for operating and maintaining the 9200 kilometres of motorways in metropolitan France. While privatization has allowed a small number to develop a juicy business, it has catastrophic consequences for the public interest. It has dried up the financing of transport infrastructure programmes by depriving them of the dividends resulting from the operation of motorway companies. It is estimated that EUR 37 billion could have been paid to the State by motorway companies between 2006 and 2032; This represents 1 to 2 billion euros per year of losses, without compensation. On the other side – the other side of the coin – privatisation has offered construction and public works companies a quasi-monopoly situation, which offers them an exceptional rent on the back of the users. Moreover, the increase in tariffs, which these users regularly suffer, does not follow the state's investment in the network. Covenants were signed in 2017; they planned EUR 800 million of investments, with an increase of 0.4% in tolls between 2018 and 2020 and participation by local and regional authorities. ARAFER considered that "the increases in the planned toll rates exceed the fair level that would be legitimate for users to bear. » As the state tightens the belt and finances, the users put their hands on it, and it is the highway companies that put their pockets on it. In 2019, French motorway companies had an annual turnover of almost 11 billion euros, compared to 8 billion two years before. And they distribute some 3 billion euros of dividends each year to their shareholders! These figures speak for themselves. The money these companies have put on the table to obtain the concessions is already almost repaid: the profitability of the contracts will be reached this year for Vinci, Eiffage and their subsidiaries, i.e. ten to fourteen years before the expiry of the contracts! Tariff policy is under no circumstances guided by the principles of public service and user service, but by a commercial strategy of maximum profit. The only solution and the only viable option to stop such a drift is to buy back concession contracts. While it is difficult, of course, to estimate the cost of such a takeover – in total, a high range of EUR 50 billion is often advanced – for years we have been proposing financing solutions and avenues for reflection, which I will not return to for lack of time. They're on the table! Our responsibility as parliamentarians, committed to the general interest, should invite us to vote on this text as a matter of urgency, rather than persevering in justifying and complicit in the financial manipulations of these major groups, which are so expensive to the French and the State. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, SOC and FI groups]] That is what the GDR Group will do and we therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to make this bill yours, which I would call salutary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u138	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u139	This bill provides, as the only measure, for the nationalization of the 16 motorway concessionary companies. Is it wise for the State to carry out such a buy-back operation? That is the only question we have to answer today, and our answer is no. First, the consequences would simply be considerable for our public finances. The acquisition of these privately-owned companies would be extremely costly for the State, not only because of the buy-back price, but also because it would have to compensate for the damage suffered as a result of the termination of the concession contracts. Estimates fluctuate between €45 billion and €50 billion, but the State is also expected to resume the debts on the balance sheet of these companies, which is close to €30 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u140	Wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u141	Everyone therefore measures the financial impact of such an operation, which to date has not been precisely quantified. By comparison, its cost would be more than half that of the €100 billion recovery plan, and it would be higher than that of the France 2030 investment plan. Colleagues, we assume that we have spent heavily on protecting and reviving our economy in the face of the crisis; have invested heavily in future technologies, decarbonisation and reindustrialization, for an innovative, sovereign and competitive French economy. But we will not spend the money of the French in totally unthinkable and inopportune nationalizations for the future of the country. Recall that the first historical concessions will expire in less than ten years. The State will therefore be able, if it so wishes on that date, to automatically and free of charge recover the management of these infrastructures. Secondly, would these nationalisations benefit motorway users? Again, the answer is no. The shift from the management of the private network to the public would transfer to the State the burden of ensuring the very heavy investment costs for the maintenance and creation of infrastructure. A takeover of the SCA does not guarantee the disappearance or automatic reduction of the price of tolls, given the large investments to be made and the tax revenues for the State – 60 billion euros between 2006 and 2020. From the point of view of the quality of the infrastructure, we can also doubt the benefit of the operation, since the State has neither the technical means nor the services to manage these infrastructures directly. The last report of the Senate on this subject has demonstrated this and excluded this option. It must be noted, however, that the concession model has proved its worth, particularly as regards the quality of our national network, which is essential for our citizens and the attractiveness of the country. That is why we are committed to maintaining a strong regulatory state and a concession system. In 2017, 97% of the licensed network was assessed as being in good or very good condition. This is the result of massive investments – in the order of 22 billion euros – made by motorway concession companies for years, without costing any public finances, therefore French taxpayers, in application of the contracts and investment plans. Each time, the State guarantees compliance with company commitments, particularly with regard to toll rates, under penalty of financial penalties. Some 400 motorway areas have been renovated; tolling, signage and new technologies have progressed; the massive installation of electric charging terminals has been initiated; Free flow systems – free flow – without tolls are beginning to emerge, especially on the axis between Paris and Normandy. Our motorways will indeed face many challenges in the coming years. The development of connectivity, intelligent flow management and the ecological transition of the network and vehicles are at the heart of mobility issues. In order to remain at the forefront of the deployment of modern infrastructure, the necessary investments will therefore be massive. While the profitability of the ACS was rightly raised, this is a complex issue: the difference between the rate of return expected by the ACS at the time of privatization and the current profitability is mainly due to lower market interest rates, improved operating costs and the use of leverage by concessionaires through debt. We do not believe that this justifies renationalisations, but rather changes in state regulation. In any event, the completion of the first historical concessions will require us to carry out anticipation work over the next few years. At no time in this quinquennium have we been afraid to take strong steps to massively develop investment in our transport infrastructure. Recall the railway pact and the recovery of €35 billion of SNCF's debt to enable the public company to reinvest massively and sustainably in daily networks; the €1.35 billion rail freight plan; the 200 million euro historic bike plan; modernisation of the national road network; Building bridges; the development of electric charging stations. Every time we're on the rendezvous. On the other hand, the nationalisation of the 16 motorway concessionary companies would be an economic nonsense, would have a considerable cost to our public finances, without any benefit to the country in terms of investment and lower prices for users. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The La République group is therefore opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u142	Mr. Mohamed Laqhila has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u143	As François Bayrou pointed out in 2006, the privatization of motorways was a fault. This was first of all a political mistake, since Parliament was not asked to vote at the time, contrary to what happened to the privatisations carried out at the beginning of this legislature – they were decided after debates and votes. It was then a financial mistake: the state might not have made as many dividends as the private sector, but if the divestment had been better organized over time, it could have been done at a better price. It was finally a mistake because these privatisations were poorly prepared: the concession contracts, already old, were not sufficiently adapted; the notion of economic balance was not defined; relations between the State and the concessionaires were not sufficiently established. Dealers have become involved in these loopholes, adopting practices that are sometimes considered questionable. The situation has improved considerably thanks to the adoption in 2015 of the Macron Law on Economic Growth, Activity and Equal Opportunities, which has improved the regulation of the sector. However, many voices are calling – partly because of an already dated finding – for the nationalisation of concessionary companies, which, it seems, would be a golden egg hen for our public finances. In fact, the renationalization of highway concession companies is a bad idea, especially for our public finances. Let us remind all our fellow citizens that motorways are still owned by the State, and that, at the end of the concessions, the management of motorways will be its responsibility. As my colleague Lebec pointed out, nationalisation would cost public finances because we would have to compensate Vinci, Eiffage and others for between EUR 40 billion and EUR 50 billion, plus some EUR 30 billion in debt relief. But just wait until 2036 to enjoy it for free. Would it not be better to spend more usefully these 70 to 80 billion euros, in less carbon-efficient modes of travel – new railway or inland waterway routes or digital infrastructures? The State does not have the technical resources to manage these motorways directly. And if he had it, would motorways be as well managed and especially maintained? I'm not sure. As we all know, the state does not always succeed in reconciling its role as a shareholder, as a provider of public services and as a regulator. Such a perspective raises many questions. In such a situation, who should pay for the service rendered by the motorway concession companies? Is toll the best system? Some countries such as Germany have free public highways. Others like Switzerland or Austria, work with annual thumbnails. More than nationalizing the SCA, it would be better to prepare for the end of the concessions; not to renew them without a call for tenders; ensure that sufficient investment is maintained; encourage dealers to prepare tomorrow's travel arrangements – including electric cars – without, however, charging the cost from public finances; continue to move towards better regulation of the sector by strengthening the powers of the regulatory authority, in particular with regard to tariff issues or sub-concessions. In any case, more than ever glosing, as we have been doing for 15 years on the mistakes of the past and whether or not to renationalize the ACS, we must prepare for the future. Less than ten years separate us from the end of the first major autoroutières concessions, notably those of Paris-Lille or Paris-Strasbourg. In 2035, it will be the tour of the motorways of the Rhône valley. So please let's get to work, and let's face this major challenge! In conclusion, I will quote Polish poet and writer Stanis3aw Jerzy Lec about nationalizations: "The richness of thought is rarely threatened with nationalization. » [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For all these reasons, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group, which I have the honour to represent, will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u144	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u145	When it comes to motorways, everything is about numbers, especially the one that answers the question: how much would the nationalization of concessionary companies cost? Estimates vary. In 2014, the Chanteguet report cited the amount of compensation assessed by the Royal Bank of Canada – €44 billion – indicating that it should be taken as an "absolute maximum". Member of Parliament Chanteguet proposed a lower estimate – 20 billion euros – in the case of a debt recovery by a new operating institution. A little later, the state gave itself without getting wet, if I may, a range of between 40 and 50 billion euros. Finally, speaking in 2020 before the Senate, Deputy Minister Djebari estimated him to be 47 billion euros. How can the indemnity cost of a nationalisation increase, when we know that the main assets of the concessionaires consist of contracts whose value decreases over time? Let us recall the advantages enjoyed by the SCA: the method of calculating tolls allows an annual de facto revalorisation higher than inflation; clauses – the legality of which can be questioned – are entitled to full compensation for any tax developments affecting concessions. At the economic level, these benefits are reflected in different indicators: high negotiated rates of return; a ratio between operating surplus and turnover above 60 % as of 2006; revenues significantly more dynamic than traffic trends; dividends paid in excess of 90% – or even 100% – of net profits. The asymmetry of information on the economy of contracts has tended to decrease since the introduction of regulation by the ART. In a 2020 report, ART highlights EUR 600 million of overcompensation for investments in the motorway recovery plan. What an admission of the indecent feast of the dealers! And I could mention the gap between the amount of the plan – EUR 3.2 billion – and the additional benefits expected from the extension of these contracts – over EUR 15 billion. We can satisfy ourselves with positive aspects of the concessions: a network in very good condition, a high level of services. But doubting the reliability of estimates of the cost of nationalization is already a bit of an answer to the question of its necessity. If the State no longer knows how much the exploitation of major assets of its own assets, valued at more than 160 billion euros, it does not have the means of sufficient control, even though the concessionaires enjoy a marked rent. In short, the interests of taxpayers and users are not sufficiently protected. As I said, estimates of the cost of nationalization are confusing. Why? Either because their method of calculation is disputed, or because we are not clear about what they designate. It is therefore very important to agree on what we are talking about. Our colleague Taurine and his co-signatories propose nationalization. This option is clearly distinguished from the unilateral breach of contracts. Moreover, there is no nationalization, but fifty nuances of nationalization. Nationalizing may mean that the state takes 51 per cent of the shares and nothing else changes. The choice of nationalisation then offers several attractions: stability and safety in terms of exploitation; Minimization of corporate compensation in financial terms. This choice also outlines the prospect of maintaining a concessive model, with concessions operated by mixed-economy companies. What is the main risk? That the SCA should bring appeals, which would not prevent nationalization itself, and the debate on compensation would then take place. Such compensation could prove to be weaker than envisaged in that it would not be accompanied by a resumption of the debt, which would continue to be repaid by the holding. However, it appears that concessionaires have a major interest in continuing to participate in the operation in good agreement with the State, i.e. to be able to continue to earn money or even to consider new contracts. If there is nationalisation, it will therefore logically be negotiated, in the common interest of the parties. One thing is certain: to consider the future freely and in the general interest, we must regain control, under the best conditions but also as soon as possible. For our part, we would prefer to prohibit any extension of contracts and now prepare for the future resumption of operation by public establishments, because the motorway activity seems structurally monopolistic to us. However, nationalization is a valid option, contrary to what one would like us to believe. A costly option, no doubt, but less than what motorways would bring to the state, that is, up to EUR 40 billion by 2036. The game is worth it! In conclusion, I will make three points. First: nationalizing dealers is possible, it has even been done in the past. Second, nationalizing now would be less expensive than what contracts would earn by the time they expire. Thirdly, the State can and must stop considering itself in a position of weakness vis-à-vis the concessionaires. Socialist and related Members will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u146	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u147	[[Smile on the benches of the SOC group]] [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Many were in favour of taking over the motorways, including François Bayrou when the companies were privatized in 2006, and Jean-Baptiste Djebari when he was a member of parliament. I therefore hope that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, will vote favourably with us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u148	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u149	The management of motorways is a matter of priority, as they are strategic infrastructures for our country, allowing the movement of people and goods from one end of the metropolitan territory to the other. I would therefore like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and the rapporteur, Bénédicte Taurine, for putting this text on the agenda of our House. With a few months of critical electoral deadlines for our country, returning to the forefront of this theme is not a surprise. Several declared candidates in the presidential election have already taken a position in favour of the renationalization of motorways. First of all, I would like to make an important point: as the title of the bill makes clear, there is actually no question of renationalizing motorways, but of the motorway concession companies. This major difference is not always clear to our fellow citizens, as some politicians use the subject for political purposes. Let us therefore make it clear that motorways have never been privatized; The concessionaire companies were the ones who did it. Motorways are still part of the public domain of the State, which delegates management and maintenance to private dealers. At the end of the concessions, i.e. between 2031 and 2036 in the case of the so-called historical concessions, the motorways will come back to the State, which will then decide either to manage it itself or to delegate it again. Thus, the question that you are asking in this bill is whether we should immediately nationalize the motorway concession companies. The Action Group does not think so for a number of reasons. First of all, if, as you advocate, such an operation were carried out immediately, its estimated cost would amount to several tens of billion euros, in order to compensate the concessionaires for an early termination of their concession contracts. It would be enough, however, to wait until the expiry of these contracts, in ten years' time, to recover the motorways for free – if I may say so. You will agree, it would be a waste of public money to pay such a sum. These funds would be more usefully spent to continue to renovate our rail network, to develop our river network, to intensify the decarbonization of transport, or what I know. In addition, the nationalisation of motorway concessionary companies would imply the resumption of their debts, which would amount to several tens of billion euros. So I dare say that nationalization, as you propose it, would be a gift to the shareholders of these companies,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u150	Yes, you had to dare that one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u151	...which, we will all agree, is not the aim here sought.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u152	[[Smile on the benches of the FI group]] So you want the requisition!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u153	However, we share some of your findings. The numerous parliamentary reports of the Court of Auditors or the independent administrative authorities have, it is true, referred to an imbalance in the contractual relations between the State and the motorway concession companies. Indeed, they have higher or faster levels of profitability than expected. Moreover, the large dividends paid by the concessionary companies to their shareholders rightly shock some of our fellow citizens, and must question us. The central question, therefore, is what kind of management model we want for our motorways. Since the 1950s, the motorway network has developed through concessions granted by the State to mixed-economy companies, transformed in the 2000s into private-law companies, and then privatized in 2006. The concession system has built a high-quality and continuously maintained motorway network. However, it has experienced drifts, in particular because the State was both a shareholder of the concessionary companies and a licensor of the network. It is clear, therefore, that the conditions for the economic balance of concessions need to be reviewed, although it must also be recognized that this model provides expertise and financing from the private sector, which is no longer necessarily available to the State today. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] On the basis of these findings, we are convinced that it will be necessary to have sufficient time to reflect on the future way of managing motorways by the end of concession contracts. With this in mind, the immediate nationalization of the concessionaire companies does not seem to us a desirable solution. The Group of the European People's Party will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u154	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u155	I remember very well the context in which nationalization took place in 2006, or at least the delegation of the motorway network to certain private companies. Mohamed Laqhila recalled earlier, the centrists were at the time opposed to the way things had happened, without debate and unilaterally. If you remember, the centrist MPs and those who opposed this decision felt that we were starting to sell "family jewelry." And years later, I continue to consider it inappropriate to take such a step. The question you are asking today, Bénédicte Taurine, is therefore a matter of real concern. In this regard, and without insulting parliamentary work, I do not know whether this issue can be dealt with by a simple bill. We should certainly go beyond that, with a bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u156	How to do it, since the Government does not agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u157	...i.e. a truly thorough approach – even if opening the debate in the Chamber is a good thing. However, the UDI-I Group shares Marie Lebec's view that it is not appropriate to immediately stop the concessions and buy them out during the course of the contract, indemnifying the companies and resuming their debts. On the other hand, I repeat that it is the responsibility of parliamentarians to question the Government and position themselves for the years to come. As we come to the end of the concessions, we will have to have an in-depth debate and, I believe, seriously consider the return of this type of infrastructure to public management. Indeed, mobility and energy issues are of the utmost importance. I would add that, while it is relevant to consider the nationalisation of motorway concessionary companies, a European dimension should also be given to the debate. Indeed, the same questions arise here as when we discussed, a few years ago, the opening up of the rail network to competition. Thus, at the end of the autoroutian concessions, the government in place will have to ask who they could be entrusted to in the future and by what type of contract. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] In the end, it seems to us better to follow the recommendations of the Senate Committee of Inquiry on the control, regulation and evolution of motorway concessions, namely to strengthen controls, to stop extending concessions and to think about how to operate motorways once the concessions have expired. As you will understand, the UDI-I Group will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u159	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u160	Nearly 16 years after the privatization of motorway concessionary companies, the balance sheet is implacable for the state. More than a lack of confidence, this historic decision was a major political and economic mistake – others have already said it before me. While some historic concessions will expire by 2031, we need to start a debate now on the future of network management. I agree with many of the criticisms made by the rapporteur and the La France Group against autoroutier concession companies. The privatisation carried out in 2006 by the Villepin government was a real failure: the divestment of shares, carried out in a fragmented manner and without real competition, severely limited the revenues that the state could have derived from it. The Senate committee of inquiry on the control, regulation and evolution of autoroutian concessions refers to a profit of less than EUR 15 billion, which would mean a loss of almost EUR 6.5 billion for public finances. Beyond these financial challenges alone, it is above all the imbalance in contractual relations between the state and the concessionaire companies that seems unacceptable. In this regard, discussions between the Crown and the concessionaire companies between 2013 and 2015 resulted in only partial rebalancing. Moreover, the memorandum of understanding, which had been reached after difficult negotiations, had led to a further extension of the duration of the concessions. In this situation, a striking contrast must alert us: on the one hand, the exceptional profitability of the groups holding the concessions and, on the other, the increasingly high prices for all the motorists. The dividends of these groups are now reaching levels so high that they are similar to real rents. From 2022 onwards, the three main groups could see their profits reach EUR 40 billion, of which EUR 32 billion would be for Vinci and Eiffage alone. It seems difficult to accept such results when, still in 2022, toll rates continue to rise and weigh permanently on all French. In view of this, a reaction is needed, even if the takeover of the stakes poses serious difficulties and if acting in haste could make us fall into the same way as in 2006. Early termination of contracts and opting for nationalisation would have a substantial cost. Your report refers to the different estimates, which generally range from EUR 40 billion to EUR 50 billion: it seems objectively difficult to weigh such an invoice on our public finances. Our group takes note of the announcements you made during the examination of the text in committee. For the first time, you have proposed a possible compensation reduced to EUR 15 billion, even if the current drafting of your legislation does not explicitly provide for such compensation. Since 1982, however, the Constitutional Council has demanded the payment of "just and prior compensation" for any nationalization. You rightly mention this decision in your report, but without drawing the consequences. It therefore seems necessary to include in the text the principle of such compensation, even if the conditions for its payment are to be determined at a later stage. Beyond this legal reserve, we also consider that the early termination of contracts is not a reasonable or feasible option. The cost of the compensation to be paid to the concessionaire companies, whether it amounts to 15 billion or 40 billion euros, remains excessive. Should we, however, keep our arms crossed while waiting for the end of the historical concessions? No, it is up to the state to prepare now, in order to rethink them. Let us begin by putting an end to the prolongation of contracts without competition, since these successive extensions only make the situation worse. In addition, consideration should be given to significantly reducing toll rates. Such a decrease would be reasonable in view of the excessive profitability of the motorway concessions and in so far as the users are, in essence, captive in this situation. More generally, it is up to the state to rethink in depth the management of our motorways. In the forthcoming negotiations, I believe that priority should be given to economic and financial rebalancing of concessions, not to mention the issue of greening the network. In short, the rapporteur, this text raises an essential issue and I would like to thank you for allowing us to discuss it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u161	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u162	La Française des jeux, whose value is estimated at 3.8 billion euros: awarded, sold for 1.5 billion euros. Alstom's energy activity, including the turbines of nuclear power plants or prototypes of offshore wind turbines that France needs so much: awarded, sold by Emmanuel Macron to General Electric. The airports of Lyon, Nice and Toulouse, strategic instruments of our sovereignty and control of our borders: awarded, sold respectively to Vinci, Italian Atlantia and especially Chinese Casil, which sold the airport of Toulouse with a small gain of 200 million euros. If you thought Emmanuel Macron was President of the Republic, you were wrong: he's a auctioneer. He sells France to cut, with large discounts for his friends. And when he does not sell the strategic assets of the state, he works to extend the highway concessions, the only winners of which are the mastodontes of the BTP, namely Abertis, Eiffage and, of course, Vinci, true leeches of public money. Remember: in 2015, when he was Minister of Economy in the government of Manuel Valls, Emmanuel Macron validated the extension of the concessions for five years, without advertising or competition, with automatic increases to tolls every 1st February, from 2019 to 2023, an extra cost of 500 million euros for users. What a strategist! What a visionary for France! You would ask him to develop a vaccination strategy for the country that he would seek advice from foreign private firms... Ah, excuse me, that's already done, for the modest sum of 25 million euros, that is to say the equivalent of 50 million FFP2 masks or 85000 CO sensors. If there was a discipline of wasting public money at the Olympic Games, the government would be a gold medallist. Colleagues, this government, in the pure neoliberal tradition, sells our country to cut for the sole interests of a few multinationals – what you call business competitiveness. For what record, Minister Delegate? What's the record? You have never done the same for all privatisations since the late 1980s, but I can sum it up very easily: enrichment of multinationals and large shareholders, impoverishment of the state, increase of prices for users, widening of inequalities of access to these goods. The management of motorways by multinationals has not decreased, as by enchantment, the number of vehicles on the road, nor eliminated the number of accidents, and I am pretty sure that our fellow citizens are driving as frequently as when the state was at manoeuvre. The difference is that prices rose 22% faster than inflation. Everything has been said, or almost, about this fiasco: the state has ceded the motorways for 14.6 billion euros while the Court of Auditors estimated the real price at 25 billion euros; A 10 billion gift to multinationals, the first in a long series. Above all, the state granted its autoroutian infrastructure as their operation began to raise money, which would have been beneficial to public finances and would have allowed no increase in tolls. But how could it be otherwise, since we have decided to privatize monopolies? I recall a principle of elementary economy – no doubt it is not taught at the École nationale d'administration, but it is taught in all the faculties of France. Hold your breath: privatize monopolies, and you will automatically increase the price of the service. A monopoly delivered to the private sector leads mechanically to the creation of an annuity, which does not exist when the monopoly is public. This is why it is impossible, in this case, for prices to fall or for the company to be encouraged to improve the service. Look at all the examples of privatized monopolies, in France or elsewhere: EDF, GDF, La Poste, motorways, train... For all these examples, have prices declined? Is the service always accessible to as many people as possible? The promise of the magic of the private sector that would do better than the public sector was kept? The answer is no, no and no. The United Kingdom has shown this to us again recently, announcing the renationalisation of part of its rail network. Privatisation, far from stimulating the economy or offering better service to users, depletes us, dispossessssssssssssss us of our sovereignty, robs us of our ability to decide together the orientations of our economy. It is a considerable loss of profits for the State that you feel obliged to go to the pockets of the unemployed, the poor or pensioners.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u163	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u164	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Colleagues, at a time of ecological and climate emergency, it is impossible to continue to entrust strategic sectors of our economy to multinationals who are only thinking of paying more dividends to their shareholders. Their bait for short-term gain signifies our long-term death. The nationalisation of this sector is essential, since it allows collective ownership over a long period of time. It is about starting from people's needs and collectively, democratically, at all levels, determining the broad directions of our economy. By privatising, you are depriving us of the means to combat inequalities and climate change, even though it is imperative that we begin the ecological bifurcation and solidarity of our economy. The motorways, EDF, Engie, La Poste, the SNCF, the banking sector, the inter-regional airports, the French gaming company: the state's big racket must stop. Renationalizing these strategic enterprises is a vital emergency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u165	Mr Nicolas Meizonnet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u166	This is still a category of French that this quinquennium has not spared: the motorists, real milk cows, to whom we have done everything for years, everything – passing to 80 kilometers per hour, explosion of the price of petrol, increase of tolls, not to mention the low-emission zones and a traffic become impossible in some big cities like Paris or Lyon... Today, in France, the country of Nicolas Joseph Cugnot, creator of the first model of automobiles – cocorico! –, being a motorist has become a real hell. It seems to me difficult to intervene on the nationalisation of motorways, which is the subject of this bill, without referring in general to the problems that a large part of our citizens are experiencing on a daily basis. I am thinking in particular of those of peripheral and rural France, the real victims of this mandate; I am also thinking of the citizens of the metropolises who sometimes have no choice but to use their vehicle and who live on a combatant's journey, between plugs, radars and parking problems. Faced with this, the springs are multiple, and the nationalization of motorway companies is a good idea. This proposal is also part of Marine Le Pen's presidential project, which wants to give back to the French their country and their money. Colleagues, once it is not customary – it is rare enough to stress it – we agree on a subject. Your bill makes a very good point: the French motorways are the story of a real spoliation of the French. Allow me a brief historical reminder. De Gaulle, from 1955, wanted to cover the territory of a modern, maintained and efficient road circuit; It then began the creation of motorways, entrusted to concessionary companies that amortize the cost of the investment and maintenance by the revenues of the tolls. This model has made it possible to build 75% of a network of 10000 high-quality motorway kilometres, a real asset for our country and for the planning of the territory. After the first divestitures under Lionel Jospin, Dominique de Villepin estimated in 2006 to achieve "a good deal" – I quote – by transferring the seven main concessions for 14.8 billion euros. Such a good deal that the Court of Auditors, three years later, reestimated the value of these companies around 25 billion euros, a dry loss of 10 billion euros for the French! Today, with a profitability rate of almost 25%, it can be said that the concessionaire companies are making fun of themselves on the backs of the French. It is a real illustration of the capture of a public good in favour of private interests, whose delusional benefits do not serve the general interest. In this period of crisis of purchasing power, everyone understands the beneficial consequences of nationalization of motorways on the French portfolio. In our view, this would reduce the price of tolls from 10 to 15 per cent, which, let us recall, has increased by 20 per cent in 10 years and represents an average budget of 300 euros per household per year. This measure, financed mainly by the redemption of corporate debts, would make it possible to return EUR 1.5 billion per year to the State budget, which could be used to launch a policy of redevelopment of the territory. It would, in short, be a win-win contract with the French. Thus, we support the proposed law, while also making a reservation on how it is handled, i.e. on the reduction of the carbon tax exemption; a slight difference of opinion which cannot prevent us from seeing the common sense of this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u167	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u168	The only point I agree with you, Mr. Deputy Minister, is when you say that you are travelling safely on motorways. The problem is that a student from the Toulouse faculty that I recently met told me she couldn't take the highway because it was too expensive. The whole problem is this: some young people are forced to take the small roads because they are unable to pay, while the shareholders pay large dividends.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u169	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u170	[[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] I would also like to reply to you about the debt. Indeed, there was a debt in 2006, but it has since been dug to pay dividends to shareholders. You cannot say that it is up to the state to compensate for this debt, while companies have paid them billions! It is not possible to think like this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u171	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u172	[[Murmures on the benches of La République en marche]] That's because they're his friends, the rich!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u173	If I understand correctly, you propose to wait for 2031, that is, the end of the contracts. In the meantime, users will pay and shareholders will continue to put their pockets full of them. On the contrary, the State should play its role and give priority to the general interest by recovering these companies in order to allow users to move on motorways. It's an ineptitude to say we have to wait. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It is known how the 2006 contracts and their successive amendments were drafted. What proves that things will change in 2031? Nothing. In view of Mr Macron's commitments on the release of glyphosate, for example, I believe that nothing will happen and that everything will continue as before, to the detriment of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u174	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u175	On Amendments Nos 4 and 5, Articles 1 and 2, as well as on the whole of the bill, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. On Amendment No 6, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u176	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u177	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u178	Deputy Minister, I have heard words in your mouth that are a denial. "No calculation or analysis proves that the concessionaire companies are over-rentable", "many figures circulate and often they are wrong, because the economic model is characterized by significant investments"... But it was the highway company lobby that wrote your speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u179	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u180	Everywhere, reports prove that there are overprofits. This shows your complicity in not acting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u181	We want the sources!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u182	Let it be said that nationalization is not a solution, as I have heard on several benches, that is. But there are other possibilities. I'm asking you to take it. The first of these was presented by UFC-Que Choisir, which entitled: "Motorway peages, an unprecedented increase: as of 1 February 2022, toll rates will increase by an average of 2%. If these figures are validated, the increase of 2022 will be the largest in a long time. You can say no today to this increase, Minister Delegate. That's what I'm asking you. Another route: the highway companies did not respect their share of the contract, i.e. the commitment of an investment plan. According to the Transport Regulatory Authority, the promised work has either not been carried out or is unnecessary or overvalued. It is a valid reason to break this protocol, or at least to renegotiate it. Last point: a year ago, an application was made to the Council of State for recognition that Macron...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u183	Emmanuel Macron! President Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u184	... had no authority to include a tax neutrality clause in the transactional protocol that he signed when he was a minister. I think that the state should associate itself with this request and consider the agreement invalid on the grounds that Mr Macron, being neither Minister of Finance nor Prime Minister at the time, had no authority to position himself. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Here are three levers of action that are not part of nationalization. I'm waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u185	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor to support the deletion amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u186	As I said in the general discussion, we do not support the request to renationalize motorway concessionary companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u187	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u188	This deletion amendment was not tabled in committee; Therefore, it is in my personal capacity that I will give an unfavorable opinion. All you're proposing is to wait until the contracts are over.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u189	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u190	However, this is an income situation comparable to those you claim to be fighting elsewhere. But when it comes to motorways, you go with him, and your only argument is that everything is too expensive. In the meantime, you let shareholders benefit from regular dividends, when this money could benefit the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u191	On the other hand, I find the summary statement of your amendment inconsistent. You say that in ten years' time, "the state will be able to recover the management of its motorway infrastructure free of charge", but a few lines later, you add that "the technical means of the state services would be insufficient to ensure direct management"! This reinforces me in my idea: in ten years, when the contracts are over, nothing will change, because you yourself write that the state will not be able to change anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u192	But then you'll be in power, right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u193	[["Oh! » on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Millienne, if you could shut up, it would make me feel better! With regard to tolls, neither the text of the bill nor the report refers to their deletion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u194	I just got a smack!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u195	Please, Mr. Millienne. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the other hand, a nationalisation would make sure that the increase in toll rates will not come out of the nails: that it will not exceed inflation, and that it will not give rise to a proliferation – a practice normally prohibited, consisting of concentrating the tariff increase on the most frequented sections, which limits their use by those who have the least means.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u197	Favourable opinion. The order of magnitude I have mentioned – between EUR 45 billion and EUR 47 billion – is still relevant and is based on the latest calculations in reports, including parliamentary reports, such as that made in the Senate last year. This figure is intended to decrease as the deadline for the main contracts approaches. One of the measures introduced in these contracts is the recovery of new infrastructure at the end of the contract. Nationalization would deprive itself of the ability to recover infrastructure in very good condition free of charge. Finally, Mr Ruffin, on profitability, the ART report of 30 July 2020 on the economy of autoroutières concessions points to an average profitability of 7.8% – between 6.4% and 9.2%. This is a high level, but considered not excessive, and does not legally justify termination. For these reasons and because you are planning to guarantee the nationalisation of motorways on a massive increase in road fuel prices, we are in favour of the abolition amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u198	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u199	Mr.Minister Delegate, you do not answer my question: Are you going to accept an increase in toll rates of 2%, the most important in years, on February 1, 2022, that is, in two weeks' time?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u200	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u201	We want an immediate answer to this specific question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u202	We have the right! It's our day, though!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u203	On the other hand, during her intervention in the general discussion, Ms. Lebec argued that at no time had the majority been afraid to take "strong action." But if, at every moment, you have feared to adopt such measures, since they concern companies, shareholders and the richest in this country, who will continue to waste their money thanks to tolls!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u204	That's enough! The richest are working!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u205	I should like to point out that the La République en marche group, which wants the deletion of this article providing for nationalisations, does not propose anything instead! If you consider that nationalisation is not the right solution, it does not pose a problem to me, but what other solution do you propose? Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u206	Work more!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u207	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds]] At the bottom, it suits you very well that let go, this hyper-gavage. Maybe it's because the money comes into your friends' pockets, the shareholders? Yes! Who's funding your campaigns?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u208	He put his finger on the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u209	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u210	Of course, we will not support this deletion amendment. Some here voluntarily maintain the confusion between nationalisation and early termination of contracts. This is a pity because, as you know, Minister Delegate, nationalization does not necessarily mean that the state will take over all the debt on its own account; It would be possible to renationalize these companies with 51% of the shares, which would no longer cost the 47 billion you mentioned. I take this opportunity to ask you: at the beginning of the winter, when everyone had their head elsewhere, and was thinking about the party and the family, on 21 December exactly, a follow-up to the agreement with the Paris-Normandie motorways company was published. This one is planning new investments – very well! – but also a flat-rate compensation of EUR 55 million for the unamortised part of the work. Why choose a package and why estimate its amount to leave, I quote the endorsement, "the usages of the profession"? Once again, the State is in a position of weakness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u211	Put your hand in the jar of jam!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u212	Above all, when we are told that it is enough to wait ten years to regain control, it is wrong and every day that passes, even if public interests are harmed, we still pay. [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Finally, Minister Delegate, I would like you to tell us a little more about the status of the return inventory, a subject that you have defeated in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u213	I put Amendment No. 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u214	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 90 Number of votes cast 90 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 64 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u215	Mrs Marie Lebec has the floor to support Amendment No. 5, which deletes the Rule.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u216	This is an amendment of consistency with the deletion of Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u218	As this amendment has not been discussed in committee, it is in my personal capacity that I express an unfavorable opinion. Mr Delegate, you say that the nationalisation of motorways would cost between EUR 40 billion and EUR 50 billion, but these figures date back to 2013. After the then minister of transport had hidden them for a year, our former colleague Jean-Paul Chanteguet made them public in 2014, adding a doubt because of the methodology used to calculate them. The following year, then Minister Macron found this order of magnitude disproportionate and estimated the sum to be EUR 20 billion. These figures are therefore problematic. Your teams refused to answer me, when I asked them about your estimate of €47 billion – I wanted to know, for each concessionaire company, the cost of buying back the shares as well as any provisions for compensation or litigation costs, and to benefit from an estimate of the expenses and resources involved in managing motorways by the state or a public institution. It is a pity that we were unable to obtain these answers at the hearings. In detail, it is noted that some large amounts are counted twice, to the benefit of the companies. In this way, EUR 12 billion should be subtracted from the 2015 plan's compensations, EUR 1.5 billion from provisions for renewal, almost EUR 12 billion from allowances for depreciation – if these payments are considered illegal – and EUR 6.5 billion from companies' holdings due to the poor conduct of operations between 2002 and 2006. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Thus, your encryption is problematic and it cannot be relied on to argue that nationalization would cost too much and reject it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u220	The figures are clear; We will be able to conduct this discussion again. Mrs Pires Beaune, as you know, the inventory of returning goods must be drawn up seven years before contracts are due. I did not break this question at all in the Senate. Last year, such inventory work was done for the concessions of the bridges of Normandy and Tancarville; It will be necessary in time for all the motorway concessions, of which the most important, as you know, expire between 2031 and 2036. We are therefore in favour of this deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u221	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u222	Mr Deputy Minister, perhaps I will have more success in asking the question with more calmness: do you intend to let the motorway companies increase the toll rate by 2% on 1 February, as they demand? Can the French get an answer now? Maybe you'll have some good news for them in the next two weeks?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u223	That's a good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u224	I would also like an answer to my second question: the fact that a report indicates that the work provided for in the contract signed by Macron...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u225	Mr. Macron! President Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u226	... have not been carried out, that they are useless or that their cost has been overvalued does it not seem to you to constitute a reason to break it, or to renegotiate it in favour of the State and the French? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, our Socialist comrades had tabled an amendment to raise taxes on motorway companies, which you reject in the name of the tax neutrality clause in the Memorandum of Understanding. There is a breach: I repeat that an appeal was lodged before the Council of State in order to cancel this clause, because Mr Macron was not authorized to sign it, at the time being neither Prime Minister nor Minister of Finance. Does the Government support this remedy, for this reason and because the clause represents an excessive gift to motorway companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u227	No answer: what a confession!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u228	I put Amendment No. 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u229	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 87 Number of votes cast 87 Absolute majority 44 For adoption 62 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u230	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u231	If I have heard everything that has been said in this House, this amendment should be adopted, since it is simply intended to avoid further extensions. These would be prohibited for contracts "that are scheduled to expire on a date prior to January 1, 2037, in the statement of contracts as of January 1, 2022. » The imbalance between the State and the concessionary companies has been demonstrated; It seems that everyone agrees on this finding. So I do not see any obstacle to us waiting for the end of the contracts, by not extending any of them. It seemed to me that the Government approved this provision.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u232	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u233	Since this amendment has not been discussed in committee either, it is in my personal capacity that I express a favourable opinion. This proposal for a withdrawal seems appropriate to me, given the debate we have just had and the imbalance in the clauses. Any extension would be tantamount to consolidating the rent of private companies, to the detriment, as always, of taxpayers' users. As La République en marche asserts its opposition to rents, it should vote in favour of this amendment, which also includes a firm recommendation from the Senate's commission of inquiry on the control, regulation and evolution of autoroutières concessions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u234	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u235	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u236	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u237	This is an amendment of common sense: motorway companies have benefited from concessions for quite a long time; Let's not add any more. Our socialist comrades thus allow us to expose the hypocrisy of the delegate minister and the majority who declare: "We will not prolong the concessions, do not worry, they have lasted long enough, we must simply wait for their expiry, in 2034 or 2084". However, when we propose an amendment to that effect, the minister delegate simply rejects it with an "unfavorable"! That's an argument! Hat! I imagine your department worked on it in depth? Nor do we hear a word from the majority to explain why it will refuse to prohibit the extension of concessions. We know in advance what will happen, if you remain in power – even if I hope this will not happen –: you will extend without difficulty the duration of gifts to your friends. Finally, Minister Delegate, I asked you a simple question: are you going to let the motorway companies increase the toll rates by 2% on February 1, 2022? It's in two weeks! You're not going to improvise your decision the day before! You must know that! Can you answer in front of the national representation and the French? When it's blurred, there's a wolf. For now, your answer seems to be a yes. The demand for higher rates for motorway companies, the most important in years, will be validated without difficulty – that is the conclusion I draw.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u238	Who says no word consent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u239	Or we'll get the answer in Le Parisien.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u240	By paying!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u241	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u242	I come back to Amendment No 6, on which I would like an answer. Its adoption would cost neither the State nor the concessionaires, since it is simply intended to keep the signed contracts in their current state. In this House, our colleagues in the majority have said that they are waiting for the contracts to be concluded and do not want them to be extended. This amendment only formalizes the position you support! [[Applause on the SOC, FI and GDR benches]] Why, Minister Delegate, do you not want the amendment to be adopted? Are you planning to extend contracts?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u243	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u244	I find this discussion absolutely fantastic: on the one hand, the group La France insoumise proposes to nationalise the motorways and to make the motorists pay heavily – that's what the bill provides – up to a minimum of 15 billion – we say 47 billion, you say 15 billion, that's not quite nothing; On the other hand, the Socialist and related group takes up – and this is perhaps even more tasteful – the proposal made by Ségolène Royal in 2015...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u245	With who? With Mr. Macron!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u246	[[Protests on several benches]] ...to freeze motorway tariffs, a little cynically.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u247	You wanted the minister to speak, listen to him, that's the least you can do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u248	You want to reproduce what Mrs Ségolène Royal did in 2015 – it can be said calmly, these are established facts: to freeze tariffs for the same reasons and to be immediately condemned, obviously, since in a rule of law, we respect contract law. I am amazed by the demagogy on the left side of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u249	What about the toll rate increase on February 1st?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u250	I put Amendment No. 6 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u251	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 91 Number of votes cast 89 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 26 Against 63
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u252	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been deleted or rejected, the bill has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u253	The next item is the debate on the bill to prohibit glyphosate (No 4745, 4861).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u254	Mr Loïc Prud'homme, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u255	I have the pleasure, together with the members of the group La France insoumée, to table this bill, which asks the National Assembly to prohibit the use of glyphosate in France. Before the Committee on Economic Affairs, a heteroclite majority took refuge in an integral defence of French agriculture for, once again, to decide... not to decide anything! In order to justify the rejection of the text, the following were invoked: the precarious economic balance of agricultural holdings, the preservation of French food sovereignty and the state of knowledge and techniques in agronomy. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not confuse farmers with the model in which they are enclosed. It is not a service to the peasant world to offer it for its sole horizon a productive agriculture that leads it to its loss. With or without glyphosate, we can all see, year after year, the inexorable weakening of our agriculture and the deterioration of our foreign trade. With or without glyphosate, the distress of the peasant world is a poignant reality that everyone can measure up to. It marks the impasses of productive agriculture, as well as the deleterious effects of unbridled free trade. This painful reality calls for a new agricultural policy and long-term resolute action. But, let us not be mistaken about debate! It is not a question of choosing between competitiveness and economic profitability on the one hand and public health on the other. We reject such arbitration. The purpose of the bill is to empower the State to take prompt public and environmental health measures required by a real and immediate health and environmental threat. Everyone now admits that there is little doubt about the risks associated with exposure to glyphosate and its use. In a report published in June 2021 by the National Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM), a group of multidisciplinary experts analysed 5300 documents from international scientific literature published since 2013. This critical rereading establishes multiple correlations or causal links between exposure to glyphosate and the development of cancer pathologies. In particular, it confirms the link between glyphosate and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, which was demonstrated in the INSERM report. Beyond this, the impact of glyphosate raises a broader issue: the use of pesticides and plant health products. In his capacity as Chairman of the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Options (OPECST), our colleague Cédric Villani alerted us to the Committee on Economic Affairs: such products play a major role in the collapse of biodiversity. In this respect, the public authorities are faced with a choice similar to that created by the use of chlordecone. As with this pesticide used extensively in West Indies banana groves from 1972 to 1993, we have enough evidence to characterize a likely carcinogenic product. Nevertheless, we tolerate its use because of its place in agricultural practices. Since December 2021, the state has recognized prostate cancers caused by chlordecone as occupational diseases for farmers in Guadeloupe and Martinique. They are now entitled to compensation. I am pleased that this dossier has been completed. Having said that, I ask the question: is the role of the State to repair the consequences of health scandals or to prevent them? It is important to learn from experience, and above all to be consistent. More than four years ago, on 27 November 2017, the President of the Republic asked the Government to "take the necessary steps to ensure that the use of glyphosate is prohibited in France as soon as alternative [solutions] have been found, and at the latest in three years". Let us stop this assertion: such an approach, under the auspices of a transition to agroecology, has not proved its worth, because the results obtained are not related to the commitments that have been made. In France, the consumption of glyphosate does not weaken. After a 37% decline in 2019, sales increased by 23% again in 2020. In that year, their volume reached 8644 tonnes, which is close to the level recorded in 2013. For example, France was the European champion in the use of glyphosate, accounting for 19% of the sprayed glyphosate in the European Union, which put it ahead of Poland, Germany and Italy. Some of you will object to me that between 2017 and 2020, sales of carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic (CMR) substances, classified as CMR 1 and CMR 2, recorded substantial decreases. In truth, I do not know if we can satisfy ourselves with such results because we are talking about only a few molecules, the most worrying or the most toxic, the following ones being forced to join this classification, by a treadmill effect. In fact, the glyphosate exit strategy is not the same. With regard to this substance, the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency (ANSES) is now simply not renewing marketing authorisations (MAs) or adding new conditions to them. Does such a strategy work? Of course, the number of authorized products formulated with glyphosate decreased from 201 at the end of 2018 to 69 products to be reauthorised at the end of 2019. However, the figures are misleading: two thirds of the MAs have not been the subject of a renewal application. Beyond this, sales figures attest to this: consumption of glyphosate persists and at high levels. Why? I will not incriminate farmers. I know the attention they pay to the preservation of the environment. I see the efforts made, especially by those of our farmers who convert their farms to organic farming. Here we touch upon the most concrete manifestations of the socio-economic locks that President Chassaigne referred to in the Committee on Economic Affairs: the use of glyphosate does not demonstrate a commitment to a counter-nature practice; It reveals conditions of production whose weight creates dependencies and encourages conservatism. This blockage, you refuse to lift it, pretending to support farmers as the rope supports the hanger. That is why we are defending the prohibition of glyphosate throughout the national territory. We propose to enact this public health measure by law and as soon as possible, because now it is no longer time to discuss it in a sterile manner and to go around in circles. The terms of the debate have been widely laid down in the texts before Parliament for the past three years. I am of course thinking of the bill proposed by our colleague Bénédicte Taurine, which was discussed in January 2019; But I would not forget the text submitted by Olivier Falorni. Everyone remembers, we also discussed the prohibition of glyphosate during the consideration of the bill for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, known as EGALIM law, in 2018, thanks in particular to the amendments defended by the group La France insoumée, as well as by our colleagues Delphine Batho and François-Michel Lambert. It is important that public authorities take responsibility and learn from experience on a public health issue. In this spirit, the single article of the text affirms a principle: it excludes the sale and use of glyphosate in the national territory, as permitted by European law. However, it empowers the regulatory authority to make the transitional arrangements necessary for its proper application. Therefore, the proposed law does not fall within the scope of the petition in principle. Without exercising their right of amendment, some of our colleagues have expressed regret at the lack of accompanying measures. In fact, such arrangements do not necessarily fall within the scope of the text we are discussing. As our colleague Jean-Baptiste Moreau pointed out, funding for this objective can be found in the France Recovery and France 2030 plans. The legislator has also granted a tax credit. It would therefore be more appropriate to consider whether the resources correspond to the needs. Above all, what are we doing to promote the development of alternative solutions to glyphosate? For a long time, opponents of its prohibition by law have argued that there are no substitute products or practices. This is a central point that I would like to address. To a large extent, the work carried out by ANSES since 2018 and the work of the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment (INRAE) now leads to a relativization of this obstacle, not to say to erase it entirely. What do they show? Whether there are non-chemical products or agronomic practices that can replace glyphosate for its main uses: viticulture, fruit arboriculture, field crops and forest. I refer only to the work reported in December 2020 in the report of the joint fact-finding mission on the monitoring of the glyphosate exit strategy. In the face of this same mission, on 2 May 2019, representatives of the Fédération nationale de l'agriculture biologique (FNAB) of the regions of France described in a very precise way alternative agronomic approaches in the management of adventitious plants. These include crop succession, longer rotations, or the alternation of cultivated plant families to reduce pest proliferation and pesticide use. No less than 55,000 organic farmers are completely involved, sometimes always, in this pesticide. This is demonstrated by the obvious example that alternatives to glyphosate exist. The progress of the agronomy does not condemn French agriculture to a mortiferous status quo. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Ladies and gentlemen, the ban on glyphosate is not an iconoclastic measure. It does not even represent a new idea in Europe, since, like Luxembourg, the Czech Republic, Italy or Germany, states are firmly committed to the cutting edge of the fight. It is only up to us to give France the means to set an example by bringing its legislation into line with a public health objective of common interest. I therefore call on you to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u256	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u257	Mr rapporteur, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, you are proposing that we re-regulate glyphosate. Let me tell you, with great respect, but also a great deal of conviction, that one of the worst political syndromes is to fall into simplisticness. I think I can say that this bill is the concrete manifestation of this syndrome, of which you and your group are affected. Simplistic would be that everything is white or black, that subjects can be treated binaryly, with 0 or 1, involving a total disconnection of the real. The peasant world, our agriculture, our agricultural sovereignty, die of this simplicity. I tell you with great respect,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u258	I don't feel it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u259	...but also a lot of determination. Simplicity sometimes goes hand in hand with stigma or false information. I heard Mr Mélenchon say that there are farms in France of more than 8000 cattle. That's totally wrong! Do you know that cattle farms in our country have an average of 144 animals?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u260	On average!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u261	You should be proud of our agriculture rather than denigrating it, because the simplistic cartoons you evoke exist, but abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u262	Yes, in Venezuela!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u263	By constantly depreciating our agriculture, you are helping to undermine our food sovereignty and promote imports. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the courage in politics is to face the complexity of things, especially in life. That is what this government is doing, and that is how it has acted with regard to glyphosate and plant health products in general. Of course, the issue is important, but the complexity of the issue needs to be addressed, which requires policymakers to accept certain principles. Firstly, it is not displeased by some that the agroecological transition is not decreed. It can only be achieved by massive investment. Otherwise, it won't work. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have not voted for any of the investment budgets in the La France group: neither the France Recovery Plan, with which we invest 1.2 billion in agriculture, nor the France 2030 Plan, which provides 2.8 billion for agriculture, nor the tax credit you mentioned, nor any accompanying or investment measures. You're only in the injunction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u264	We're not in the ministry, at least not yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u265	Secondly, transitions are only possible if no one is left without a solution. The opposite would simply lead to the destruction of our food sovereignty, while important products that degrade the environment and do not respect our own production rules, among the most demanding in the world. Is that what we want? Obviously, no! Equally regrettable is the simplicity of saying "far from my eyes, far from my heart" – I forbid this or that product at home, but I continue, without saying, to import products produced with its use, in much more serious proportions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u266	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u267	How many examples do we have in mind, from the lens to the cherry, to the beet? You know my commitment to the principle of reciprocity, but it does not appear anywhere in your bill. So the courage in politics is to face complexity by following a vision and a method, contrary to what your bill does. That is how we addressed the issue of glyphosate – because we acted. Our vision leads us to ban only when alternative solutions exist; in this case, we use them. Indeed, we believe in agro-ecological transitions, and we know that they require massive investment. The latter must also concern research: at the moment we are deploying a research plan with more than 7 million euros, which currently funds more than 20 R&amp;D (research and development) projects. The method, on the other hand, is to place science and reason at the centre of the debates. Politics must proceed neither from emotion, nor from virtue, but from reason. That is why we have asked INRAE, which you are familiar with, Mr rapporteur, to produce knowledge of credible alternative solutions. Then, with ANSES, we carried out the review of marketing authorizations in 2021. This allowed us to review the quantities of use, in an ambitious way. This works: thanks to the commitment of the channels, results are already visible. Let's be proud of it, rather than denigrating them. Since measuring the quantities of glyphosate sold, the three-year average reached in 2020 has been the lowest since 2009-2011: we have managed to stop an uninterrupted increase in the last ten years. As a result of the revision of the MAs, the quantities used are expected to decrease by 50%. Just over a third of the farms already have glyphosate; another third has started to reduce its use, according to a survey conducted in 2019. Agroecological transitions are therefore well under way and have accelerated in recent years. We will continue to act in this direction, always with vision and method. Yes, farmers live from the environment and cherish the soil – which we have most precious. These results are not limited to glyphosate; we have comparables for the products of greatest concern, known as CMR1, whose use has decreased by 93% – I say 93% – since 2016; Cumulative sales of CMR1 and CMR2 products have decreased by 40% since 2017. Organic farming has doubled in five years and the number of farms with the HVE designation – high environmental value – has increased by twenty times in three years. These are the results of our vision, our method and our determination. Let us continue to act in this direction, rather than always denigrating the choices made. France's position, based on reason and science, is very clear: we are determined to make strong progress in agro-ecological transitions, while keeping in mind our desire never to delegate our food sovereignty. The President of the Republic has clearly expressed this intention recently: the agro-ecological transition is necessary; It is committed, we must accompany it and invest to prosecute it – and not issue injunctions. This justifies the €4.2 billion planned budget, if we add the France Recovery and France 2030 plans. We support the cessation of glyphosate, where there are other realistic solutions, i.e. economically viable and coherent environmental solutions. What France has done with the revision of marketing authorisations, for example, the other Member States of the European Union have not done, with the exception of Luxembourg, but, with all due respect for Luxembourg, this is not the largest agricultural power in Europe, far from it. We therefore intend to defend these decisions at European level on the occasion of the French Presidency of the Council of the Union. Finally, with regard to glyphosate, the complexity of living has a face, it is that of conservation agriculture. Indeed, it captures CO, it makes farmers soldiers of the climate and it prolongs the vitality of the soil. Go to the field, see carrots from soils cultivated in conservation agriculture! Generations of farmers or agronomist engineers, like me, have been trained there. However, it does not displease some, it requires weeding, precisely so as not to have to plow. For the time being, we do not have a solution to do so. Are you going to ask the farmers to go to the fields weeding with the binocular? Let's be serious. Are you going to offer them, as I read, to use soil electrification? Of course, it pollutes weeds, but look at the earthworms that are found in the samples taken after electrification. In addition, have you measured the number of additional tonnes of CO that your proposed legislation would release into the atmosphere? It would have been a good idea if your impact assessment had specified it! More generally, beyond the carbon stored in soils, all the advantages of non-labour techniques are at stake: structuring, soil biodiversity, reducing erosion. It is clear that two environmental objectives are in confrontation: biodiversity and the fight against climate change. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The situation is complex and forbids any simplistic approach. On the contrary, it obliges us to act methodically, as I have just explained to you. The nobility of politics stems from its success in understanding this complexity. That is what the presidential majority in front of me is doing, and I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u268	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u269	On 27 November 2017, while the European Union had renewed the marketing of glyphosate, President Emmanuel Macron promised that the use of glyphosate would be banned in France as soon as alternative solutions were found, "and at the latest in three years". Was it a simplistic political thought then, minister? In any event, four and a half years later, this ban is still not in force. This environmental renunciation is not isolated. Neonicotinoid bee killers have been reintroduced, farm factories have been allowed to...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u270	Where?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u271	...and the Demeter gendarmerie cell is tracking environmental activists. Finally, the President of the Republic and La République en marche carefully accompany the Monsanto model. Pesticide regulations are at the service of firms. The data provided by the industrialists are confidential. The vote of the States in the Accreditation Committees is secret. All this stems from the opacity of European laws on pesticide authorisations and bans. By the end of 2022, the European Union must again decide on the five-year extension of the authorisation of glyphosate. Since the beginning of the year, France has been President of the Council of the European Union. It must therefore be exemplary and ambitious, prohibiting it immediately. That is what my colleague Loïc Prud'homme's proposal for a law provides for. The situation is dramatic. In 2016, 800,000 tons of Roundup – the commercial name of glyphosate – and its adjuvants – were spread on the planet. In France, the reduction in the use of glyphosate is not on the right track to achieve the Government's modest targets of halving by 2022 – it is now 2022. Indeed, the sale of glyphosate increased by about 42% between 2019 and 2020, from 6000 tonnes in 2019 to 8600 tonnes in 2020. Glyphosate presents a proven risk to health and the environment. Since 2015, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the International Centre for Cancer Research (IARC) have recognized it as a probable carcinogen. A new INSERM report, published on 30 June 2021, confirms this; it points to the link between exposure to glyphosate and the presence of lymphomas. Is this a simplistic finding? In addition, there is no longer any evidence or investigation of the diseases and malformations caused by this product. According to the Agricultural Social Mutuality (ASM), one in five farmers suffers from health problems directly related to the use of pesticides. Glyphosate is rarely used alone, rather in combination with other compounds, which reinforce its action. We do not want glyphosate to feed, like chlordecone, the plethora of state scandals. In France, until 2007, it was labelled biodegradable and supposed to respect the environment, even as its residues destroy biodiversity, accumulate in groundwater and contaminate food. Residues were found in honey. In 2017, the non-governmental organization (NGO) Future Generations announced that it had found traces of glyphosate in the urine of almost all French people tested. Solicity by the Ariegian collective Campaign glyphosate, I agreed to submit to a test. The result was disconcerting: 1,167 nanograms per millilitre. However, I am not an isolated case: traces of glyphosate were found in the urine of 99.7% of the 6796 participants. More generally, glyphosate is a symbol of a breathless agricultural system. Locked by agrochemistry, it ravages biodiversity. Prohibiting glyphosate means pursuing a policy against lobbies and for ecological transition. No one can ignore how difficult it is for farmers and women farmers to live their jobs, or how painful the model of productive agriculture is: 18% of agricultural households live below the poverty line, according to an INSEE study published in October 2021. According to the MSA, 605 farmers committed suicide in 2015. These are facts, minister, not a simplistic statement. Peasant and organic farming is the only serious outcome to Monsanto agriculture and to farmers' precariousness. The report published in 2017 by INRAE confirms that organic farming is economically efficient: it is more rewarding for farmers. If we change our model to develop a virtuous agriculture, we will create thousands of jobs, while protecting biodiversity. The conclusions of the France Strategy report on the economic and environmental performance of agroecology go in the same direction: "Agroecological farms [...] are generally more profitable than conventional farms, while their environmental requirements are high". If you need further proof that another model is possible, think of the 53,000 organic farmers who demonstrate that you can do without glyphosate! So how do I do it? Getting out of glyphosate means going through the law. We must provide farmers and women farmers with a framework for calmly considering the future, a firm commitment to public health and against multinational plant protection companies, which must be accompanied by an economic model that benefits farmers and farmers above all. That is why we must guarantee them a decent income during the transition to agroecology. We propose to get out of globalized agricultural markets, to guarantee floor prices for all productions, to set quotas or to introduce solidarity protectionism on social, environmental and health criteria. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Other levers of action are at our disposal. Contrary to your ambition, farmers must be assured that they will not sell their products at a loss, under the pressure of supposed free and undistorted competition. Rather than lowering producer prices and margins, let us check the margins of distributors and give all French people the means to buy good quality products, by increasing wages. We can also guarantee access to land for French and French people wishing to live in agriculture, in particular by sanctifying arable land and controlling land grabbing. The lever of collective restoration must also be fully activated to guide demand and to ensure sufficient economic opportunities for producers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, care must be taken to get out of the hyperspecialization of crops, which undermines the food autonomy of our country, and to regain diversification and rotation in production. Combined with these solutions, the immediate prohibition of the sale and use of glyphosate in France is possible! Colleagues, for the health of all, for the future of our planet and for future generations, vote the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u272	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u273	This debate took place more than four years after the famous tweet in which the Head of State announced that he would "take the necessary steps to ensure that the use of glyphosate is prohibited in France", while the procedure for updating the authorisation of glyphosate is currently under way at European level and the Government seems to have chosen a strategy for the very gradual exit of glyphosate, accompanied by aids and alternatives to farmers that are necessary but still very insufficient in our view. We all agree, on these benches, on the dangerousness of this substance, on its harmful effects on human health and on the indisputable impact of the molecule on biodiversity – plants, adventitiouss and insects. While its effects on human health are controversial, since 2015, IARC and WHO have included glyphosate on the list of probable carcinogenic substances. Conversely, France, Hungary, the Netherlands and Sweden, which constitute the assessment group on glyphosate, reiterated in their June report that "the classification of glyphosate in terms of carcinogenicity was not justified". They therefore accepted the industrial lobbies and proposed not to change the existing classification, simply maintaining only references to "serious" eye damage. The second observation we agree with is the failure of successive plans to reduce the use of plant protection products. The causes of this failure are multiple. They have been studied by researchers from the Centre national de la recherche scientifique (CNRS) and INRAE: they point in particular to the fact that the actions of the public authorities have targeted only farmers and their advisers, without taking into account the interdependencies that link all the economic actors involved in the logic of agricultural systems, in which pesticides play a pivotal role. This failure is also the result of the worsening conditions of competition and the lack of a European and national will to accelerate the agro-ecological transition. Today, when we look at this text, we say it again and again: the agro-ecological transformation of our agriculture, therefore the very significant reduction in the use of inputs and plant protection products, is a major agronomic challenge which requires structural policies at European and national level: guarantees of production prices, the despecialisation of territories, complementarity between livestock and field farming systems, and much more agricultural assets in all territories. The future common agricultural policy (CAP) and the national strategic plans, which are being finalized, have still not met this ambition. However, we would be wrong to suggest that we would properly address the overall problem of the use of hundreds of plant protection products used by agriculture, by simply prohibiting the use of glyphosate by law. If, as INRAE's latest work of expertise says, it is possible to dispense with glyphosate in a majority of crops, the situation is more complex for field crops, because to pass without delay and totally from glyphosate to field crops presupposes a sudden change in cultivation practices, with reinforced tillage and more frequent tillage. Regular tillage, however, has a strong influence on the structure and dynamics of soil life. On the other hand, the less we work the soil, the more we participate in its proper functioning, in the preservation of its agronomic qualities, in the storage of organic matter and carbon, in microbial activity and in the retention of water.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u274	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u275	These are contradictory objectives, which are perfectly well referenced in the INRAE assessments. We cannot ignore these technical obstacles, which concern, in particular, all farmers engaged in conservation farming or in techniques that drastically restrict tillage. In any event, we cannot ban glyphosate without claiming – even temporarily – exceptions or derogations from this prohibition, for environmentally virtuous agricultural practices, or without allowing time for alternatives to be developed and applied. [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] Thus, if we understand that the ban on glyphosate is now a symbol in the fight for a transformation of our agricultural model, we would have liked the text of our colleagues to give way to the extremely complex reality of the ground, by providing for derogations. Therefore, we will abstain from this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u276	Why don't you table an amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u277	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u278	Once again, we find ourselves playing the game again on the issue of the prohibition of glyphosate. Once again, the subject is put on the table by the opposition. As I pointed out in our committee debates, the majority's speech has not changed and the line remains very clear: no ban without a solution. The proposed law, with its single article, does not provide for support, solution or alternatives. In the face of a proposal for an ideological law, the majority group can only stand in the way of a decision that would affect our agriculture, already well weakened by dogmatic discourse and denigration campaigns. That is why the La République en marche group will oppose the text. Let us not be told what we have not said: the LaREM Group is in favour of reducing the use of plant protection products in agriculture, which was one of the ambitions of the President of the Republic in 2017. However, we are opposed to a pure and simple removal of glyphosate, without providing answers to farmers who are deprived of it. While our position has not changed, things have changed in the agricultural world. Sales of substances of greatest concern, known as CMR1, have been reduced by 93% compared to 2017. Sales of CMR1 and 2 products decreased by 37% between 2017 and 2020. These figures are not questionable. They deserve to be highlighted, because they reflect all the work and adaptation of the agricultural world. The position we take is not ideological. On the contrary, it relies on serious work carried out for more than a year in an information mission, with my colleagues Julien Dive – president – and Jean-Luc Fugit – co-rapporteur. From the conclusions of this mission, Mr. Rapporteur, you have only chosen what was right and what was right for you. However, the conclusions of the hearings and the work we conducted were clear: no prohibition of use in the absence of an alternative – an alternative that is understood both as economically viable, but also technically effective. Nor does the proposal provide an answer to the economic question and to the accompaniment, because yes, as we had already pointed out in our report last year, the ban on glyphosate will lead to significant and variable additional costs, depending on the cultural sectors and practices, resulting in the need for additional labour and the need to acquire new equipment. All the texts on the agricultural issue show how central the question of financing is. Will we seriously accept a proposal that would lead farmers to a financial stalemate, when their economic situation is one of the most fragile in the country? While some uses may already be the subject of alternatives, as in the case of arboriculture, for which the ANSES had concluded that inter-range treatment was possible without glyphosate – its use has been banned – others, such as the vine, do not allow the replacement of glyphosate under the rank: for some perennial plants, such as the liqueur, there is currently no other possibility than the use of this product. President Chassaigne also recalled the need for glyphosate for soil conservation agriculture. Moreover, agitating the idea of a ban on glyphosate proves a lack of knowledge of the complexity and heterogeneity of the agronomy and its particularities. As an agronomist, I know how much more complex these situations are than they seem and go far beyond "there is only, we have to". When we know that half of the farmers will retire within the next four years, the stakes of agricultural and food sovereignty remain central: a strict ban would only create more difficulties for our farmers and for a whole sector that is plagued both by the dramatic consequences of climate change and by permanent contradictory ideological injunctions – without for a moment taking into account the efforts that have been made by our agriculture. The exit of the most dangerous plant protection products was largely encouraged by our majority, notably through the separation of advice and the sale allowed by the EGALIM law, thanks to the implementation, in 2020, of a strategy for the deployment of biocontrol to facilitate access to the market, thanks to massive support for investments for the deployment of alternatives to plant protection products, with France Relance – for an amount of 245 million euros, as the Minister said – thanks to the 600 million euros planned by France 2030 to contribute to the third agricultural revolution, with an acceleration of research and development, and thanks to the introduction of the tax credit "exit of the glyphosate" in the amount of 2500 euros, benefiting all farmers who do not go glyphosate over a year. As you will understand, our majority chooses accompaniment rather than a ban without a solution. We must also take account of the European context: France is precisely pushing for a ban at European level, because there would be nothing worse than banning glyphosate in France, while its use would give our neighbours a very clear competitive advantage. That is why our majority has made the accepted choice of pragmatism – no prohibition without an alternative – and will therefore oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u279	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u280	I say again – I have already mentioned it on behalf of the UDI-I Group before the committee – the glyphosate case has become a totem: it is the tree that hides the forest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u281	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u282	Why? Because this is a real subject of reflection: this product, which must be used with the utmost delicacy, because it is a weedkiller, containing active ingredients that may be harmful. However, this debate applies to all herbicides, to all fungicides and to all insecticides used in agriculture. In France, we should be scalded by what happened with neonicotinoids: a few years ago, some people were pleased by abolishing them, and then, invoking the principle of reality, the actors on the ground explained that they could not do without it. In conclusion, the Government had to backtrack, that was the case. We look good to our fellow citizens, farmers and producers – that is, we are ridiculous. I say this to the current minister, as I said in his time to Stéphane Travert, his predecessor: at the time, the statement and tweet by the President of the Republic did not help. Let's say the way they are, he was under the bad influence of Nicolas Hulot. It was the Minister of Agriculture, Stéphane Travert, who paid a heavy price for these disputes between the environment and agriculture; His head was asked to satisfy the wishes of those who supported Nicolas Hulot. To follow up on agricultural issues for several years, like many Members in this House, I would like to say that farmers have made a great deal of progress. We moved from ecologically intensive agriculture, some twenty years ago – Michel Barnier was then Minister of Agriculture – to soil conservation agriculture that you know, dear Julien Denormandie. In the meantime, agroecology has emerged – everyone has now validated the concept – and has been accompanied in particular by the introduction of HVE certification. Naturally, we must support and encourage organic farming; It is an alternative solution, though not the only one. Indeed, you recalled earlier, Minister, in five years, the agricultural area of the bio has been multiplied by two. Let us go back to the global reflection, which is the angle from which we must look at all the plant protection products used in the world, in the European Union and in France. In France, we use 8000 tonnes of glyphosate, a figure that we must relate to the total volume of plant protection products used, i.e. 75,000 tonnes. I repeat the argument of several colleagues because it refers to a reality: on my return to my constituency of Fougères, in Brittany, I already hear farmers asking me what we have still voted for and what are the balls on their feet. This type of reflection should, at the very least, take place at European Union level. If we put in place additional constraints that do not burden our German, Italian, Spanish and other European Union countries, competition will be distorted and competitiveness hindered. [[Marguerite Deprez-Audebert applauds]] In conclusion, I am in favour of the aim of drastically reducing or even extinguishing the use of plant protection products in France. But as André Chassaigne has said, we cannot introduce such a measure without being pragmatic, without providing for derogations or without taking into account the existence of reciprocity with all our partners, whether they are members of the European Union or other countries in the world. That is why the IDU-I Group will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u283	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u284	Colleagues of the La France group, this bill attests to your willingness to protect the French against this substance – we share it – but also and above all, I fear, your resolve to make this subject the stone in the shoes of the majority. But that will not be the case. We clearly assume the position that has been and remains ours. In 2017, the President of the Republic pledged to end glyphosate as soon as possible. His last statements on the subject will not have escaped you: unfortunately, the goal of exit in three years could not be achieved for reasons that have been widely explained – the minister reminded them. However, our determination has remained the same since the beginning of the legislature, as evidenced by the measures introduced to limit the use of this molecule. In 2017, glyphosate was banned in public spaces; Two years later, we banned the use by private individuals, which is therefore strictly reserved for farmers; Since last year, the use of glyphosate has only been permitted in situations where there is no alternative solution. During the year 2022, this measure will result in a significant decrease in the consumption of this substance. We have therefore indeed embarked on a path of exit of the glyphosate. Above all, we are aware of the scale of the challenge. This is also reflected in our record of reducing pesticide use, down 20% in 2020 compared to 2012-2017. We can also be satisfied with the very significant drop in the use of the substances of greatest concern in the CMR category between 2016 and 2020. As part of the France 2030 Recovery Plan and Investment Plan, we are going further, strengthening the development of biocontrol products and reducing marketing authorisations for many products containing glyphosate. As for investments, more than 800 million euros are committed to renew and purchase alternative equipment and to accelerate the third agricultural revolution. This will be based, among other things, on the agroecology that will develop. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the nerve of war is the search for alternative solutions. The release of glyphosate requires preparation and research over several years, in which we are already engaged. However, we must recognize the reality, we do not yet have a reliable and sustainable alternative to glyphosate for all agricultural crops. It is therefore necessary to move forward with pragmatism and, above all, to strengthen the resources allocated to development and research. On the other hand, leaving the glyphosate immediately and unilaterally would have far-reaching consequences for the French. The immediate release of glyphosate would result in additional costs of €50 to €150 per hectare, undermining the economic viability of our farms and even threatening some of the losses, which would, in particular, reduce our capacity for exports and food aid to Africa. The distortion of competition created by this ban would not be acceptable to our farmers: to ban it only in France would lead to a failure of our target with the first victims, French farmers. For our good information, let us remember that only one country in Europe prohibits glyphosate: Luxembourg. The other Member States either gave up – Austria, for example – or made announcements without applying the measure. In the world, only Sri Lanka had banned it and eventually returned to that measure. The result is my third point: the current French Presidency of the Council of the European Union will be an opportunity for our country to be, once again, the driving force behind this fight until the European Commission presents its proposal on the subject by the end of the year. Indeed, it is the French government that, in November 2017, avoided the extension of the Glyphosate licence for ten years by reducing it to five years. We must continue on this path and find a solution with our European partners to move towards European environmental and social convergence. The problem must be solved at European level; Mr Chassaigne shares this view. [[Nicolas Turquois applauds]] Many of us believe that we cannot leave our farmers without a solution, in an impasse. Worse still, the immediate ban on glyphosate could lead to uses whose environmental and health impact would not be more desirable. As you will have understood, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is against this bill, which goes, moreover, against our essential objective of consolidating our food sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u285	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u286	The French agricultural model has long been one of the best performing in the world. But, beyond its now well-acquired productivity, a new issue has obviously emerged: respect for the environment. The issue of pesticides, particularly glyphosate, naturally crystallises much of the debate. We have also discussed at length within my group the best strategy to be adopted; I must say that nuances have been expressed about the purpose of this text. Nevertheless, we all find ourselves on the harmful effects of these substances on health and the environment, which are largely substantiated, if not indisputable. As regards glyphosate more specifically, the report published in June 2021 by INSERM confirms the causal link between exposure to glyphosate and the development of cancer pathologies. In fact, this was what the WHO International Cancer Research Centre, an agency, expected when it classified herbicide as a probable carcinogen. There is growing evidence of its impact on the environment. Negative effects include decreased incorporation of soil nutrients such as iron, zinc, and manganese. Significant impacts are also noted on wildlife, as animals exposed to wildlife experience a decline in fertility. In view of these elements, we agree with you, there is an urgent need to get out of the glyphosate addiction. This was also what President Emmanuel Macron initially defended, we all remember. On 27 November 2017, the Head of State asked the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the use of glyphosate is prohibited in France within three years at the latest. We also know the following: just two years later, a retropedaling took place. Today, the Government refers to community bodies the responsibility of prohibiting the use of glyphosate. In a large open market, it is not incongruous that the applicable rules are the same throughout Europe. This is good, France has just taken over the presidency of the European Union and the licence for the marketing of glyphosate on the Old Continent expires at the end of 2022. So we have a unique opportunity to move the matter forward. Only one question remains: will the fight against pesticides be one of the priorities of the French agenda? My principled opposition to glyphosate is not blindness. I am aware that banning the use of weeds immediately would, in some cases, be synonymous with weed-invading fields and reduced yield; in other circumstances, this would result in the use of otherwise more dangerous herbicides; In others, at last, it would be a return to intensive ploughing. Finally, this is bad news for our planet and for our farmers. That is why I am defending a timetable for the gradual and determined release of the herbicide. Some on these benches want only to follow the ANSES guidelines for herbicide use. For my part, I consider that they are not ambitious enough. In 2020, the doses with which farmers can process their crops were reduced by 80% for viticulture and 60% for arboriculture and field crops. However, it must be noted that the average quantities used by our farmers are often less than the new ceiling defined. Therefore, the year 2021, the first year that the ANSES restrictions will apply, will be decisive in assessing whether there have been any real changes in practice. Of course, I hope that it will mark a reversal of the trend. But whatever happens, I am convinced that new restrictions will have to be implemented in order to move towards a total ban on the use of glyphosate. This prohibition cannot be achieved without stronger support from our farmers to change their practices. I recognize that the Government has implemented certain measures to encourage farmers to dispense with herbicides. The France Recovery Plan devotes funds to the renewal of equipment or to the purchase of alternative equipment. In reviewing the finance bill, we also passed a specific tax credit for certain agricultural companies that do not use plant protection products containing the active substance of glyphosate. However, these various measures remain largely insufficient to allow the transition of the whole sector. In the future, aid will have to be stepped up to enable those working on land to engage resolutely in an environmentally and health-friendly production model. Pending the implementation of these measures and returning to the purpose of the text, Members of my group will decide in conscience. For my part, you will understand, I will vote in favour of the bill, hoping that it will speed up the glyphosate release schedule.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u287	Mr Antoine Herth has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u288	In his interview on 4 January 2022, the President of the Republic stated: "On the glyphosate, I did not succeed. Some farmers told me that if they were forced out quickly, they would put the key under the door, because Spanish or Italian competitors could continue to produce. This is the mistake I made at the beginning of the quinquennium: we must act on these issues at European level. It doesn't work if you do it on your own. I cannot put farmers in stalemate and without a solution; We are at a time of practical solutions. » This echoes the proposal for a law that France has submitted to us today. But logically, it is a European motion for a resolution that you should have tabled, and I am sure that Parliament would have followed you on a text that would ask the Government to redouble its efforts within the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union to convince our European partners not to renew the authorisation of glyphosate. But no, as usual, you prefer to lock yourself in a vain verbal gesture that has no other purpose than to panic the press and confuse the minds. However, I note, and I have told our rapporteur in committee, that for once you have taken care of the packaging. Usually, France is not embarrassed by legal considerations in order to decree universal happiness in the place of the people. This time, our colleague Loïc Prud'homme carefully decorates the link between European regulation and national law, between the prerogatives of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council, those of the French ministers and the indispensable role of ANSES. This has at least the merit of being educational for the unsubs who follow our debates. Indeed, and it is good to recognize this, France is engaged in treaties with its European neighbours. This is a wise decision since we have a single currency, in a single market, in a common legal area which guarantees the free movement of goods and people. On the occasion of the pandemic that we are going through, this Europe, which you usually denounce, has shown that it not only allows us to preserve our economy and our security, but it is also useful to coordinate our efforts to curb the virus through the acquisition and dissemination of vaccines. But this pedagogical effort falls, as often, in the void, since you persevere in your isolationist posture by demanding the prohibition of glyphosate unilaterally. However, what disappoints me most is that you deliberately ignore the work of the National Assembly over the past four years. You do not mention at any time the work of the joint fact-finding mission chaired by our colleague Élisabeth Toutut-Picard, whose rapporteurs were Didier Martin and Gérard Menuel. As early as April 2018, the report concluded that the issue of plant protection products could not lead to a simplistic response, but that a systemic approach to the development of agroecology was needed. You claim that France has done nothing. However, to date, ANSES has withdrawn 131 marketing authorizations for glyphosate out of the 201 that existed at the beginning of the legislature, i.e. two-thirds. Mr. Prud'homme also seems to ignore the conclusions of the joint information mission on the follow-up to the exit strategy of the glyphosate, chaired by our colleague Julien Dive, whose rapporteurs were Jean-Baptiste Moreau and Jean-Luc Fugit: she is entitled only to a footnote. However, as early as November 2019, this mission allowed Parliament to define the peak line for a gradual reduction in the use of glyphosate. This is an in-depth report, and Parliament has rarely deployed as much energy on an issue, which shows that the National Assembly attaches the importance it deserves to this issue. As a result of this work, which recalled that SNCF is the first user of glyphosate for the weeding of railway lines, the national company has just announced that it has found an alternative solution and that it is now abandoning this weed removal. In real life, it sometimes takes time to change working methods: more than two years in this case. France prefers to stigmatize French farmers and ignore the practices of public companies where it probably hopes to win votes. We understand this: this bill has no other purpose than to highlight a totem of your political line. However, it says a lot about the contempt of France for the work of Parliament and probably for democracy in general: for you, this place is only a forum for shouting your harangue. As you understand, the Action Group will not bring a majority to your text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u289	It was all in nuances, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u290	Mr Pierre-Henri Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u291	I am speaking for my colleague Julien Dive, who will join us in a few minutes. It all started in November 2017, with a tweet avenging the President of the Republic who fractured public opinion, announcing the ban on glyphosate in France in 2021. Slandered, attacked, accused, farmers have once again been the target of a terrible announcement for their already harsh daily life, one more piece in the juke-box of agribashing. This was followed by heated debates during the review of the EGALIM bill in 2018, with a bill of the same name as we are studying today, and the creation of a twenty-four-month parliamentary fact-finding mission on the follow-up of the strategy for the release of glyphosate in France. First of all, let us remember that France is avant-garde on this subject: since 2017, the use of glyphosate herbicide has been banned in communities for the treatment of public spaces. Since 2019, its sale has been banned to any individual. More recently, SNCF, the first individual user in France with 40 tonnes of glyphosate sprayed each year on its railways, announces that it will replace it in 2022 with a solution based on pelargonic acid, ten times more expensive, which amounts to 110 million euros, and which will require a quantity three times more, since it is necessary to use sixteen litres against five litres per hectare of glyphosate – ten times more than an average farmer uses. I let you imagine the impact on the soil and especially on the income of our farmers. In fact, the exit of the glyphosate is very real and our farmers do not need an umpteenth electoral injunction for bobos. The guidelines for use have been severely modified by ANSES, which has restricted it to situations where the herbicide in question is not substitutable. It is forbidden between the rows of vines, because mechanical solutions exist; The same goes for orchards. As for field crops, glyphosate can no longer be used in addition to tillage. Here too, common sense prevails in order to preserve soil conservation techniques such as non-labour and avoid deadlock situations. In reality, the stakes of the French farm are well-identified by the profession. Phytosanitary products should be reduced by removing substances that are recognized as hazardous and harmful. This is the case every year with the withdrawal of marketing authorisations. We must eliminate unnecessary or excessive use of plant protection products through precision techniques and tools. Finally, we must protect the farm budget, and therefore the farmer's income. No one uses plant protection products out of pure pleasure, but only out of necessity. This is a cost. To convince you, take the example of the nitrogen fertilizer whose price was multiplied three times in a year, raising fears of inflationary prospects on wheat in 2023 – we are far from the breadstick at 29 cents. The Republicans use this rostrum to alert you, Minister. We denounce the Government's practice of constantly creating new digital platforms for farmers' delation and their practices, which you call the name and shame, which contributes to the hysterization of public debate. This began in 2013, with the creation by Stéphane Le Foll of Phytosignal, an online tool created by the state and put into the hands of the regions; Two of them just took it. Then, in 2018, in the midst of a debate on glyphosate, your predecessor puts glyphosate.gouv.fr online to highlight good practices and thus, in a hijacked way, point fingers at the bad students. It took a parliamentary mission led by Julien Dive, Jean-Baptiste Moreau and Jean-Luc Fugit to remove the site. Finally, two days ago, the minister of ecological transition, your colleague, supported by this majority, announced the launch of websites to inform residents about farmers who spray pesticides.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u292	Stop saying anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u293	Minister, we solemnly ask you, be strong and put an end to these dubious practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u294	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u295	That the Government stop petting farmers in the public sense, so that they can be better crushed from behind.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u296	We feel the elections are coming! What a demagogy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u297	But let us go back to the substance of this bill. If the idea is to ban glyphosate on French soil, the logic is that the import into France of products containing glyphosate should also be prohibited. By harmonising rules at European level, it is certainly possible, but at national level alone, it is impossible, except in favour of distorting competition between French farmers and those of other European countries. Let us take the example of soy: 80% of French consumption is imported from countries that spray glyphosate directly on cultivation and not on interculture as in France. Elsewhere, glyphosate is sprayed with bare hands on cocoa. The weed is not greener in the neighbor. Finally, Mr rapporteur, how can we ban glyphosate with a single article, which does not provide for any comprehensive strategy, any alternative solution for our farmers, no means of accompaniment, no impact assessment or any reference to parliamentary work on this subject? As a result, the Republican Group, which has always been on the farmers' side and which can be proud that it has never contributed to this phenomenon of agribashing, will vote for pragmatism, against dogma and thus against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u298	What a shameful speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u299	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u300	One of the most rewarding moments for me in the life of Parliament is when, three years ago, we organised a symposium with the Institute for Sustainable Development and International Relations (IDDRI), INRAE, the Centre for International Cooperation in Agricultural Research for Development (CIRAD), as well as many agricultural organisations and NGOs, which raised a fundamental question: can Europe do without pesticides? The IDDRI response was discussed in a scientific and democratic manner by all stakeholders of the symposium. At least four or five years, for all, the horizon was 2050. As we won the battle against bacteria in the last century, we can consider an exit from chemistry. Between 1950 and 2050 will have passed a century of chemistry transition; new technologies and systems will allow us to free ourselves from them. It's this spirit that has kept me alive for a long time. It's not a lukewarm position, it's a line of action. I make little reference to it because I do not like to mix functions but thirty years ago, at the farm in which I worked with my associates, we stopped using Roundup and more generally all pesticides to change systems. I continued this action as a local elected one: there are almost 25% organic farming in my territory and one vineyard, of which 90%, according to the High Environmental Value Standards (HVE), falls under agrobiology and 85% of organic farming. I continued this action as a Member of Parliament from 2012. Mr. Dumont, you have criticized Stéphane Le Foll with great injustice. I think the minister would not share your criticisms, which are a little senseless, but I am consoled by the fact that these attacks are pretty good at the political level at this time. I continued to commit myself by writing the report "Pesticides and agroecology, the fields of the possible", at the request of Stéphane Le Foll, in order to rewrite the Grenelle de l'Environnement and the Plan Ecophyto I. I have committed myself through this report and its 68 proposals. I have worked on the definition of biocontrol in the rural code and marine fisheries, but biocontrol has many advantages. I also worked on phytopharmacovigilance. I am not very proud, thanks to the amendments I have tabled, of allowing the withdrawal of sodium metham, for example. Twelve other molecules and products are being investigated through this phytopharmacovigilance process. On the other hand, the proposal for plant protection economics certificates (PPECs) has had a disastrous fate. I participated in the general states of food, which were based on fourteen systemic proposals for sustainable food for all. In short, I have carried out this constant action as a peasant, as an animator of a territory, of a country, and as a Member of Parliament. And yet, Mr rapporteur, through me, the Socialist and related group will say its opposition to your proposal. He will say that in a singular way, by not taking part in the vote. I reiterate here the position I have defended against winds and tides. Indeed, I have opposed all demagogies, all simplifications and all simplifications. I repeat: it is not for Parliament to decide whether or not to withdraw a molecule. In terms of democracy and science, this would be a major regression. The whole art of modern democracies is to form institutions based on ethics. I am not very proud to have been the author of an amendment which has helped to defuse the means of ANSES so that it can fully respond to its mission. We must strengthen and strengthen them. Like you, we know that there is an enormous reform of the European Health Security Agency, which the French Presidency could at least open. But I reject the idea that the dictatorship of the market should be replaced by the dictatorship of opinion. It is science and democracy that, together, must choose the rhythms. It is up to us to lay down specifications and conditions for the exercise of these institutions. The National Commission on Ethics and Alerting Health Risks states that, in 2017, on glyphosate, Europe worked badly. Before submitting her report in December 2022, she had to work better. This commission calls for a complete review of the frameworks, the rules for managing conflicts of interest and the processes in order to arrive at a decision independent of any conflict of interest and any lobby, which really determines, according to a democratically defined specification, whether or not we should refuse glyphosate. The war of molecules is endless because it is indeed of all pesticides that we must free ourselves collectively by a systemic agroecology – as I have shown, for example, in the case of neonicotinoids, by proposing the strategy "a plan B as beet". This desire to impose a molecule of substitution for glyphosate could lead to the introduction of three alternative molecules, including fluroxypyr and dicamba, used on the more toxic and ecotoxicological liseron and rumex than the glyphosate we want to denounce today. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups; André Chassaigne also applauds]] We must work differently by combining science and democracy. We refuse to enter into a logic which, tomorrow, could prove to be demagogic and dangerous. Let us imagine, for example, that we are applying it to the drugs or vaccines that are currently under discussion. I therefore propose that we take another approach, that which I have defined in articles published by the Jean-Jaurès Foundation, one on agribashing and the other, more recent, on the so-called One health approach – a single health.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u301	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u302	Minister, you accuse us of being simplistic, of refusing complexity. Yet, we are proposing to face the complexity while the binary reasoning you have developed – spraying or not spraying – is simplistic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u303	It's not exactly that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u304	You also criticized us for not respecting the principle of reciprocity, citing the example of lentils or cherries. First of all, this is not the purpose of this text. But we are, of course, sensitive to this issue, since the import of products containing this type of substance has an impact on peasant income. This question is my main concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u305	It's not very visible!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u306	That is why we are defending environmental protectionism, an idea that you agree with, Minister. Indeed, in a speech I heard you talk about the famous mirror clauses, which was a way of talking about environmental protectionism without having to say these words – which is obviously difficult for you. We therefore share the same ambition as you and we develop this idea in our political agenda, clearly and unambiguously. On the other hand, of course, we rely on scientific arguments,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u307	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u308	... presented in publications, including INRAE. Some of them are already old but have been consistently confirmed since then by other studies that attest to the existence of alternative solutions – I have already explained this. On the other hand, you say that you have done a lot in this area, for example that you have multiplied by twenty the number of farms labeled HVE, high environmental value. Here's a confession that symbolizes your policy: signage but nothing concrete. I would point out that the award of this label does not include any requirements for reducing the use of pesticides – as you know. As far as soil non-working is concerned, I would like to point out that it is also possible in the context of organic farming. I come to the effect on the carbon balance, an argument that is often opposed to our proposal. Minister, can you tell me that the production of glyphosate itself does not require energy or carbon emissions? If you want to make a carbon balance linked to the use of glyphosate, let's not slip under half of this balance sheet by ignoring that glyphosate production itself results in massive carbon emissions. Several Members, including Mr Chassaigne, referred to conservation agriculture. However, this practice cannot be described as ecological in so far as it presupposes the use of glyphosate. The techniques of soil non-working, as I said, have been in existence for a long time, and without the use of this herbicide. It is true that today they are based on the agronomic knowledge and know-how that make our farmers proud. Of course, they require a little more human work. But who will complain when we have lost 350,000 agricultural assets in 15 years? Yes, we plead for intensive agriculture, both in terms of manpower and intelligence, while you plead for the maintenance of an intensive model of chemistry which, moreover, does not pay our farmers. I will add a clarification, particularly for Mr Herth. We are told that everything must be decided at European level. First of all, I would like to recall France's manoeuvres in order not to encourage an exit of glyphosate at European level. But, on the other hand, if Europe decides, in the coming months, to release the glyphosate – since it is at European level that everything is being played – how do you prepare us for it? No one can answer me because no one has prepared for it. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] No one has considered an alternative solution or accompaniment in the event of a global release of glyphosate as we make proposals in this regard. I am thinking in particular of the solidarity protectionism that we call for because the pride in the work of our farmers, but above all the preservation of their income and the sustainability of their farms are at the heart of our concerns.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u309	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u310	Mr. rapporteur, I will not offend you...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u311	It wouldn't be the first!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u312	... to question the scientific nature of your approach because I know that, unlike a member of your group who claims to have an opinion on vaccines because he grew up in the department where Pastor was born, you have actually worked in a large research center and that you are a great specialist in these issues. Nevertheless, you must admit that the complexity of the living – which you know well – requires us to escape any simplisticness. I note that President Chassaigne himself has demonstrated that conservation agriculture, whether desired or not, posed an incredibly complex question to all the representatives of the nation: how to reconcile different environmental objectives?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u313	I answered it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u314	He's absolutely right. I note, moreover, that the Socialist and related group and the groups belonging to the presidential majority have made the same points. I, too, held this speech in the gallery this afternoon. For, yes, the living is deeply complex. A binary approach is always harmful. Mr Mélenchon, let me now question you – which I rarely do. I am not sure that such an inquiry is in line with the good practices of the House, but let us say that you too sometimes omit them and that you will therefore allow me to do so. Several parliamentarians have informed me that you have just quoted me on social networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u315	No, not tweets! Stop it, it's making the Joint Joint Committees run out!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u316	You make me say, in a message published about an hour ago: "Using glyphosate is preserving the environment. To say otherwise is simplistic. » I have said this: "So we can see that there are two environmental objectives that confront each other: biodiversity and the fight against climate change. It is clearly complex and it prevents any simplisticness. But it obliges us, on the contrary, to act with method, which I have just reminded you. » [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you can see, this is a further demonstration of the simplicity shown by your group and which I denounce.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u317	Yes, it's outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u318	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr Mélenchon, either you have a fundamental problem with the truth, or you think the French are fools.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u319	Both!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u320	No, that's you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u321	In both cases, it is a shame for a candidate for the presidency of the Republic. Since I just showed you that you lied shamelessly on social media,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u322	Who tweeted that glyphosate would be banned "in three years"?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u323	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Protests on the benches of the FI group]] ... and this while you are going to go on TV sets to explain that we would have a problem with these same networks, I ask you very clearly: are you going to correct your mistake and say, on social networks, that you lied? The greatness of a politician is also to recognize his mistakes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u324	This provocation is useless! You'll be out in three months!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u325	I am now speaking to Mr Dive, although he was not in the gallery earlier. I understand that the presidential campaign has begun...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u326	It would be good if Mr. Macron declared himself a candidate, by the way...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u327	...but in the speech, of which you are obviously the author, which was read by one of your colleagues, you accuse the Government of things that it has not done at all. Once again, I would like to stop adopting these postures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u328	Giver of lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u329	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In the narrative you have built, the Republican MPs have the role of those who support and defend farmers. Now, as I speak to you, you are alone on the benches of your group. It's just you! And your group said some nonsense in this rostrum. It's unbearable. Democracy is not that. Support for farmers is on the benches of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u330	Fuck the people! It's a provocation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u331	I now call the single article of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted a text. On this single article, I am seized by the group La France insoubted of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u332	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u333	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I have heard from each other, particularly the very violent and aggressive ones, from the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u334	You never are!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u335	I will address my Communist comrades who have announced that they do not want to vote on this bill because it does not provide for exceptions and because it takes more time. In this Chamber, however, we have time to amend. Therefore, if you wish, let's build this text together. I am now speaking to all my colleagues. Glyphosate is probably carcinogenic. What puts farmers and agriculture at risk is not to live without glyphosate but to live with it. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, how much do you estimate the financial value of a human being? How much is the life of a farmer or farmer? [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] I will conclude by quoting the words of Chief Sitting Bull, in a letter addressed to the then President of the United States of America: "When the last tree has been slaughtered, when the last river has been poisoned, when the last fish has been caught, then only you will realize that the money is not being eaten. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u336	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u337	Forgive me, Mr President, for not attending the beginning of this debate, but I am coming from the Doubs, where I was speaking with dairy farmers. I may be alone tonight, but other Members were present today and, in any case, the quantity is not the quality – you know that, and that is true everywhere. When you say we're accusing you of things you haven't done, I guess you're referring to setting up the different platforms. With regard to the Phytosignal device, I recognize that it was Stéphane Le Foll, during the previous legislature, who created it. I note, however, that this tool is still available to the regions. It is up to you to go back to this choice and take action if you want to delete it. On the other hand, the website glyphosate.gouv.fr, which I was not alone in denouncing at the time – we were many of that opinion within the parliamentary mission that I chaired – was indeed set up by this government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u338	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u339	It was created under this legislature, certainly not by you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u340	He doesn't exist anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u341	I know that, but it is good to recall this fact so that such devices are no longer used, especially since yesterday, one of your Government colleagues said that she intended to put in place this type of website that clearly points fingers at our operators – we would like to know what you think.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u342	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u343	During the debates on glyphosate, we have always been guided by a concern for consistency. We have neither dogma nor a preconceived idea, unlike many Members here. We wanted to take into account the real, which is why we repeated that we do not envisage a ban on glyphosate without an alternative solution. On the other hand, with regard to traces of glyphosate in the urine, an example cited by Mr Larive, I would point out that it has been scientifically demonstrated that it was totally false, that it was an absolute scam.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u344	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u345	Yes, when a urine test is performed, there are both residues of glyphosate as well as residues of laundry or detergent. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u346	I don't eat laundry; I'm eating vegetables!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u347	The study you are quoting is a scam whose aim is to influence and intoxicate the population. On these benches, we are not on the side of dogma but of science.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u348	Of course, you are on the side of reason, goodness, intelligence...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u349	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on FI banks]] We make our decisions based on science and reality, we do not live in illusion. To answer Sitting Bull, once agriculture is dead, you will have nothing to eat.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u350	Given what you're doing, it's likely indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u351	Your mask, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u352	I put the single article to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u353	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 62 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 17 Against 43
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u354	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor to support Amendments Nos 3.1 and 2, which contain an additional Rule and which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u355	[[Other movements]] Put on the mask, Mr. Mélenchon!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u356	Colleagues, we are continuing our discussions. If you have any comments on the functioning of the Assembly, including the use of purifiers, you will do so at the Conference of Presidents or at the Bureau. In the meantime, everyone puts on his mask and regains his serenity. You have the floor, my dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u357	I thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to defend them globally because they have coherence and, knowing the democratic price of a parliamentary niche for an opposition group, I would not like to launch a pirated debate which would distract from the actual agenda of the proposals put forward by our colleagues in La France. Our non-participation in the vote on the bill, as I said in the general debate, is justified by the fact that, for the Socialist Group, which is very committed to agroecology and the removal of pesticides, we must respect the methods which combine democracy, institutions and science. Otherwise, we run the risk of a dictatorship of opinion and emotion. However, in order to ensure that there is no ambiguity, I have lodged a complaint with the Council of State against a previous Minister for Agriculture of that majority for failing to apply the Phytosanitary Economy Certificates. I am therefore very committed to these matters personally and I do not have a lesson of courage to receive, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u358	I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u359	These amendments, in contrast to our abstention, are requests for a report and give me the opportunity to question the Minister of Agriculture on the Government's policy in this area. There have been some progress and successes in this Parliament, but it seems to me that the land meeting has been missed and that we are at a standstill on phytopharmacy. After a 2014 report remained outstanding, there were the general states of food in 2017, after which the Government announced a proactive policy.... At the end of this legislature, I note – without making any political policy and without confusing the agendas – that the certificates of plant protection products savings have been abolished in favour of a promise by the President of the Republic on the separation of sales and council, of which it is known that this is a failure. Everyone admits it today. Nor has the Ecophyto plan been implemented as originally planned, Antoine Herth remembers it, that is, with the participation of MPs and strong political animation. However, it may have prevented the reintroduction of neonicotinoids if serious work had been done on this issue. You yourself say, Minister, that in three years we can free ourselves from this pesticide through various technological solutions and their combination – landscape mosaic, plant chemistry, etc. Anyway, the Ecophyto plan broke down. The CEPP are abandoned in favour of a solution that has not worked. And what about the national strategic plan for the future common agricultural policy? I will conclude on this last point: it is probably too conciliatory in terms of the transition with the profession concerned, the compromises envisaged being, in view of the challenge of biodiversity, the markets of the future and our food security, a bad gift for agriculture and not really a gift for farmers. My three amendments are aimed at asking you the following question, Minister: during this term of office, has our country sufficiently engaged in the processes of freeing itself from pesticides by means of agroecology, legislative innovations such as the CEPP and by means of a European negotiation which, in my opinion, brings us together?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u360	The rapporteur, Mr Loïc Prud'homme, has the floor to give the committee's opinion on these three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u361	First of all, I did not give you lessons, my dear colleague – but perhaps it was in committee and you had an account to settle with me? These amendments have been voted against in committee, but in my personal capacity I will give an opinion in favour of Amendment No 1 on Ecophyto, because the report that would emerge from it seems to me to be able to bring a little bit of grain to feed the debate. As for the others, I agree with the committee's opinion. You are referring to the national strategic plan, which, Minister, has not been debated at all in this chamber, which I think is a real problem. I have been calling for a debate for more than two years, in vain. Finally, Mr Potier, I have reacted in committee to a statement you repeated in the gallery that the decision to ban glyphosate would not go back to our House. It is ignoring that we can intervene in the health field. This dimension is at the heart of the debate on pesticides. And when there is a factory of doubt to the point of blocking the scientific discourse – we have known it with the tobacco industry – it is indeed the legislator in the end to decide, in this case to make the decision to protect our environment, our farmers and consumers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u362	The Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u363	It is a request for withdrawal, but the issues that you have addressed, Mr. Member, are important. With regard to Ecophyto, there is, as you know, a review of the projects. As far as the European negotiations on the issues you are talking about are concerned, this is obviously an essential question for me. I would like to take this opportunity to confirm to the rapporteur that I am very clearly in favour of the principle of reciprocity – which can be regarded as protectionism without autarchy – particularly with regard to mirror clauses. The first one I'm looking for is growth antibiotics in the animal world. Finally, as far as the certificates for the economy of plant protection products are concerned, this is a real debate in view of the choices made, in particular the separation between sales and advice which Jean-Baptiste Moreau also mentioned. I believe a lot in these certificates, it's a very relevant approach. However, it will be necessary to see how they can be sustained and extended as the various reforms are implemented. I'm taking the leap ball.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u364	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u365	I would remind the rapporteur that we had the opportunity to have a very long dialogue with ANSES. While these institutions must never cease to be called upon and reformed in order to arm them even more, we must not cast doubt on their legitimacy or, in this case, on the way in which this agency operates and on the conclusions it formulates. As for the construction of the European reform, it is fundamental. I hope, Mr Minister, that you will at least be able to open it up and obtain a European certification of French advances in biocontrol, because they deserve it. Without opening a debate on agroecology, your admission that separation did not work and that the CEPP was not so stupid is a real lesson for all of us on the eve of the presidential elections. This shows that the slogan of an NGO, a trade union, a company or the air of time can have a heavy impact on the construction or deconstruction of a public policy. It's a call to humility. There is a need to focus on processes and objectives rather than on all-round solutions that ring well in their ears but which, in the end, can do pschitt, and ruin the efforts made by the majority during the previous legislature. In this regard, I have noted that at Les Républicains, a little bit of an idiotic attack was made on Stéphane Le Foll, while part of his policy is being implemented today and in a form of continuity. In any case, when we set up the CEPP, we hoped to create a process involving sectors, territories, businesses and public services that produce effects. I do not have time to develop the example of rapeseed or other cultures, but I remain absolutely convinced that this mechanism was full of promises. [[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] If we really want to get out of pesticides, there are six months of European presidency where we can earn points, and three months of presidential campaign where we can avoid any form of demagogy, whether on the right, on the left or in the centre, and propose to build public policies that are respectful of soil health, human health and the health of the planet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u366	Are your amendments still in place, Mr Potier?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u367	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u368	Mr rapporteur, before the vote, can you recall the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u369	Unfavorable opinion on Amendments Nos 3 and 2, and in a personal capacity in favour of Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u370	As the single article and all amendments to the additional article were rejected, the bill was not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u371	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u372	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u373	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on the legalization of the production, sale and consumption of cannabis under State control (No. 4746, 4862).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u374	Mr Eric Coquerel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u375	I come here, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, with the intention of taking a further step on the issue of the legalization of cannabis under state control, in the most constructive way possible. This is a subject that has been widely transversal for months. That is why my group has made its niche available for a bill signed not only by its members, but also by Members who belong to no less than five of the groups in our assembly, not to mention non-attached members. I hope that this will, as in committee, will help to avoid the caricatural arguments against the text. This bill also extends what constitutes a first in this legislature: a set of transpartite works. Six months ago, the National Assembly's joint fact-finding mission on the regulation and impact of the various uses of cannabis had an unwarranted record: the policy of prohibiting cannabis in our country for the past fifty years has failed. Several of the members of this joint fact-finding mission are co-signatories of the bill. Following the work of the joint fact-finding mission, the proposal for a law defended last spring by our colleague François-Michel Lambert, and the one I have previously tabled with several of the signatories of the text that we are debating, I propose that you finally legalize – as has been done in recent years in Uruguay, several states of the United States, Canada and as Germany will soon do – the production, distribution, sale and use of cannabis, but under strict State control. At the origin of the bill on our agenda, there is the damage to drug trafficking. Trafficking, with more than 80 per cent devoted to cannabis, destroys: it destroys socially the populations who suffer it, it destroys consumers who consume an increasingly toxic product, and it also destroys the small hands of drugs that suffer both the conditions of a uberized job and the precarious lives of small dealers for whom prison and violence are the rule. While France is now one of the most prohibitive and repressive countries in terms of trafficking but also the use of cannabis, it is also Europe's consumer champion. Almost half of adults aged 18-64 have already used cannabis in their lifetime, compared to an average of less than 30% in Europe. France has 1.5 million regular consumers and 900000 daily consumers. The risk, in case of legalization, is therefore not to see the use of cannabis explode: this explosion has already taken place. Despite the ever-increasing resources devoted to combating trafficking, it was not silent. The interdepartmental mission to combat drugs and addictive conduct (MILDECA) estimates that the fight against drugs, including use, is now equivalent to one million hours of police work. As with all drugs, the sale and use of cannabis has been prohibited in France since the 1970 law. Today, the illegal use of cannabis can therefore be punished, in theory, with a sentence of one year's imprisonment and a fine of 3750 euros. Since 1 September 2020, a flat-rate fine of EUR 200 for the use of narcotics can be applied directly by law enforcement authorities. As for crimes and offences related to drug trafficking, the Criminal Code provides for much heavier penalties, up to 10 years in prison and €7.5 million in fine. For what result on the duration? Of course, the catches are larger and no one denies the competence of the police and customs officers, but, as one customs officer explained to me, they are above all proof that the flow is ever more massive, not that traffic is decreasing. What is happening in my constituency is a demonstration of this – and I first thought about the people in his neighbourhoods when I designed the bill. It can be seen that, if a daily police presence on one point of deal hinders traffic for a few days, it explodes during that time on another point and resumes on the first site as soon as the police go on the second. As a police unionist told me, we feel like we're emptying the ocean with a spoon. We are actually in the same situation as with the prohibition of alcohol in the United States in the 1930s. No prohibition policy will prevent the demand for cannabis, nor will it ever eradicate the consumption of other licit psychotropic products or not. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] On the other hand, prohibition prevents a consistent and effective policy of reducing risks and addictions, as well as a policy of control of usage, which is obviously desirable. Cannabis must be re-established within the overall framework of the use of addictive products if the second reason for such a bill is to be addressed: the desire for a more effective health prevention policy than is currently being pursued. According to the World Drug Policy Commission, cannabis is ranked sixth in the world's most lethal products, behind alcohol and tobacco, which rank third and second respectively. Cannabis is ranked eighth in the ranking of the most harmful products, still behind alcohol and tobacco, which are ranked first and sixth respectively. My intention, in recalling this data, is obviously not to minimize the danger of cannabis, but to place the issue of its legalization within the broader framework of the regulation of psychoactive substances. Like alcohol and tobacco, cannabis is a risk product. Its consumption is becoming increasingly dangerous as the levels of THC – delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol – contained in illegally sold products increase. The framework for the production, sale and consumption of alcohol and tobacco is used to regulate the rate of psychoactive substances and to develop prevention policies for users. Why wouldn't it be the same for cannabis? I have given figures for overall use, however, it is not the moderate use of cannabis in adults that is most worrying, but that of young people, especially adolescents. It is known that the use of THC has a particularly harmful effect on the brain development of our young people, who can develop or trigger psychiatric disorders. The figures published yesterday by the French Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictive Trends (OFDT) – formerly the French Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction – show a weakening of cannabis use by third-class students, but this is a global phenomenon that is undoubtedly due, unfortunately, to a transfer to other addictive practices. What are we doing today to avoid or delay the testing of cannabis by our children? Too little. While MILDECA has launched interesting experimentation programs on psychosocial behaviours, they are not up to the challenges. Consider that, out of nearly 600 million euros spent each year on cannabis control, only 10% are spent on health and prevention spending! [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Conversely, the legalization of cannabis would make it possible to develop a real risk prevention policy, based on what Canada or Portugal have done, for example. Portugal is showing the way to another method of organisation that gives the Ministry of Health leadership of drug policies and results. The user is not considered an offender but, at worst, a patient with the resulting treatments and recommendations, resulting in a reduction in the use of all drugs. I would point out that the legalization of cannabis does not necessarily lead to an increase in the trafficking and use of other drugs either. I am referring to what is called the theory of escalation, which often returns to the debate. On the contrary, by removing cannabis users from drug dealers who are likely to sell other drugs, drug use can be prevented more harshly than cannabis. You will have understood that, if the bill that I am presenting to you is limited to legalization, in order to fulfil the conditions of a parliamentary niche, the text is part of a more comprehensive framework described in the explanatory memorandum. This comprehensive approach includes an ambitious health policy, a policy of social reintegration, but also a redeployment of police forces to community policing – in two years, in Canada, the illicit trade has declined by 60% – and more resources for investigative and judicial police to dismantle trafficking. I would like to conclude on our approach to legalization. The current global trend will inevitably lead us to decriminalization and legalization. In what form? That's the question I'm asking. By acting in time, by regulating this trade under state control, we will succeed in avoiding the development of a new juicy and dangerous market for health, that of the Big Canna. That is why we are proposing legalisation under strict State control. The latter would have a monopoly on the distribution of the product and the licenses granted to producers and sellers by developing non-capital economic modes of the associative type, ESS – social economy and solidarity –, social cannabis club. This would allow us to regain control over the products in circulation, to have traceability, to ensure that cannabis is not cut with anything as it is today, and to control the rate of THC, which has literally exploded. This "trade" would be based on a regulated sale, prohibited to minors. It would create legitimate jobs, but also bring revenue into the State funds, which can finance health and risk prevention expenditure I have already mentioned. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Michelle Victory and Mr François-Michel Lambert also applaud]] In line with the trans-party nature of this bill, more and more French people express their support for legalization. The latest polls, including the one ordered for our parliamentary niche, even show that a very large majority voted in favour of it. A citizen consultation gives 80% of the 250,000 votes cast in this way, because people understood that if legalisation did not regulate everything, prohibition had not solved anything, inducing, in fact, traffic and an explosion of consumption and risks. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we join the wisdom and lucidity of our fellow citizens in adopting this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u376	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u377	The bill tabled by the Member of Parliament, Éric Coquerel, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, deals with a major subject of society, one of those on which it is difficult not to have an opinion, but which unfortunately accommodates few nuances. I also know that this is a subject on which your House has been very much involved, as you pointed out, Mr rapporteur, particularly in the context of the recent joint fact-finding mission on the regulation and impact of different uses of cannabis. The work of its rapporteurs allowed us to explore the various facets of this dossier, highlighting its great complexity. I, in turn, would like to welcome the contribution of this work to the discussion. In recent months, cannabis has not been absent from the agenda of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, and we can collectively be proud to have allowed its medical use, as part of a long-awaited experiment. Beyond vague opinions and clear convictions about the so-called recreational use of cannabis, there are facts and a finding: cannabis use is a real public health problem. The authors of the bill are aware of this fact: they mention explicitly in their explanatory statement "the reality of the dangers of cannabis". We all know the figures in support of legalisation. The prevalence of cannabis use is high in France. In the general population, in 2019 there were, that was said, 5 million consumers in the year, 1.5 million regular consumers and 900000 daily consumers. These 900000 daily cannabis users are potentially considered to have problematic uses related to cannabis use. Recent results, however, show a dynamic that contradicts the often widespread idea that consumption levels continue to rise. The proportion of users in the year – 11%, i.e. one in ten adults – has not changed since 2014, and that of regular users, who consume at least ten times in the month, is even showing a slight decline, from 3.6% in 2017 to 3.2% in 2020. Depending on age groups, the observations are contrasted. Levels of use are increasing slightly among adults over 35 years of age, but the decline in use among 18-25-year-olds, which began in 2014, is continuing. As a result, cannabis has become less and less popular in generations born since the mid-1980s. Your bill speaks of "the failure of prohibitive policy"; I believe that this failure is to be qualified to the extent that it seems that what was subversive, rebellious and perhaps even connected a few years ago is not so much so. As far as young people are concerned, OFDT has shown that, while consumption of 16-year-olds in France remains one of the highest in Europe in 2019, it is at the same time one of the largest declines between 1999 and 2019, compared with other European countries. We must describe what we are talking about: cannabis is a drug whose harmful nature to human health is clearly established in French and international scientific literature. The dangerousness of the product is increased for adolescents and young adults, because their brains, maturing up to 25 years of age, can be seriously affected by cannabis use. Faced with this public health issue, but which also concerns the educational order, as well as social and vocational integration, we all seek to achieve the same objectives: to reduce risks and prevent entry into use as soon as possible. We assume we want this product to be less consumed in France, and its image to be decanned. It is also a question of combating trafficking – as the rapporteur has mentioned – by attacking criminal networks that hide behind what is sometimes regarded as petty trafficking. It is an issue in its own right that is inextricably linked to prevention policy. The Government has taken up the matter; We are acting on supply and demand in the same effort, and you know how determined the Minister of the Interior is to lead hard lives for those who rot neighbourhoods by selling drugs. Moreover, the bill does not avoid this phenomenon, proof that, if our solutions differ, we make the same observation: the practice is harmful not only for public health, but also for public tranquillity. We walk on two legs: the fight against trafficking and prevention.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u378	You're not fighting anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u379	The national plan to mobilize against addictions 2018-2022 includes in particular strong measures in this direction, which mobilise all the levers: the strengthening of prevention and joint care, both health and social; the development of multidisciplinary research; the fight against trafficking. These levers are all associated with maintaining the prohibition. Mr rapporteur, you have given some examples of foreign legalization experiments conducted by several Western countries. The Government is, of course, following with particular attention the Canadian experience, often cited – as you have done – by the supporters of legalization in Europe and France. The Quebec authorities themselves have published a report on the first years of the implementation of legalization. It says that the decline in use among adolescents – which, I say, is not affected by legal access to the product – has continued because of a proactive prevention policy towards the younger ones, which we also carry out...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u380	Where is this policy today?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u381	... and which gives results, as I have shown you – you would know, if you had listened. At the same time, there is also a significant increase in adult consumption from 18 years of age in Quebec, while legal access to the product is only allowed at the age of 21, a much greater social acceptability and a lower perception of risks. These results seem disturbing to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u382	Greatly disturbing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u383	You are also aware that the exclusion of minors from access to legal cannabis is likely to be poorly respected, as is the ban on the sale of tobacco and alcohol to minors, for which the Government is mobilizing. He did not choose for France the legalization of cannabis. It makes the clear, firm and constant choice of prevention of uses, restoration of the credibility of the protective criminal prohibition, and the fight against trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u384	The government is right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u385	Our objective is prevention, which involves preventing the installation of a person in repeated and problematic uses, but also early identification of these uses in order to effectively orient the persons concerned towards appropriate care. The prevention priority plan and the national plan of mobilization against addictions include actions to this end. To support the priority given to prevention, France has developed a powerful tool to finance the prevention of addictions. As you know, you voted: the tobacco fund evolved in 2019 towards the fund to combat addictions related to psychoactive substances, with an annual budget of almost 120 million euros. These preventive measures are given priority by schools, universities and all actors who are close to young people. A strategy for the large-scale deployment of psychosocial skills development programmes is being developed, in conjunction with the Ministry of National Education. These programmes, evaluated, provide major results on the consumption, school climate and educational success of students.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u386	It's a drop of water in the sea!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u387	As you saw, in the second half of 2021, we also launched a large three-pronged communication campaign to inform about risks. We also educate front-line health care professionals to provide effective responses to their patients. The dissemination of early intervention strategies enables other professionals in contact with young people to identify problematic uses, take them into account in their support, orient themselves, where appropriate, to specialised structures and to form more broadly protective environments for young people, putting at a distance the incentives to use psychoactive substances. For example, we need to raise awareness of the support mechanisms available to young people, their entourage and the general public for any issue or difficulty related to the use of products or drugs. Furthermore, legalizing recreational use could further trivialize this product and enhance its accessibility as well as the positive perception that young people have of cannabis today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and on several benches of the Dem group]] I am pleased that this debate is taking place; It allows for a clear exchange of views on this major topic of public health. The Government's position would, however, be clear, and no less unfavourable to the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u388	Mrs Danièle Obono spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u389	"Drugs, there are no sellers if there are no consumers. People who use drugs on friendly evenings are people who finance these mafia systems and maintain the insecurity of the most popular neighbourhoods. These comments by Emmanuel Macron in his now famous interview in Le Parisien on January 4th are emblematic of the dogmatic posture and the political impasse in which presidents, governments and successive majorities have locked our country in for fifty years. France has for many years been the first European country to use cannabis, a drug widely used in society with 900000 users and users.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u390	It's not French, "usageurs"!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u391	...on a daily basis, between the ages of 11 and 75. Almost half of adults have already experienced it by smoking at least once in their lives, while the European average is 29%, reaching only 27% in the Netherlands where cannabis is legal and over-the-counter. Minister Darmanin's aggressive campaign against consumers and consumers, with the approval of Emmanuel Macron, has not changed anything in recent months. On the contrary, consumption increased during containment, despite supply difficulties. It is time to draw conclusions from this failure. The repressive policy carried out for more than fifty years does not make it possible to reduce the use of cannabis; Prosperous traffic and products become more toxic. This strategy also prevents coherent and comprehensive public health policies, and increases the level of violence and insecurity associated with illegal trade. Legalization is a health requirement. Cannabis is a plant with psychoactive and medicinal effects whose consumption disrupts the central nervous system, modifying states of consciousness. If its harmfulness is less than that of other legal substances – it is ranked eighth in the international ranking, behind the alcohol that is in first place and the tobacco that is ranked sixth – its consumption can have adverse effects on health, sociability and safety, especially since its prohibition is one of the causes of the increase in THC, the main psychoactive component of cannabis sold illegally; This therefore contributes to the dangerousness of this product. The legalization of cannabis is primarily a public health imperative. It is the only way to control the quality of the products consumed, to prevent and reduce the risks adapted to the danger of each substance and to the public concerned. These campaigns must particularly be carried out among young people, whose consumption has been declining in recent years, but for which the indicators of use remain high. Studies show that cannabis causes cognitive, physiological and behavioural disturbances in adolescence, all the more harmful and persistent as consumption is early. Yet the health discourse is stumbling down on a major policy incoherence – among others. Indeed, alcohol and tobacco, which are both more addictive and more dangerous than cannabis – 120,000 people die each year – are allowed and on non-prescription, alcohol also benefiting from framed advertising. A "double standard" that helps blur the message of prevention and risk reduction. In fact, Canadian experience shows that legalization has not increased consumption among young people under 25 years of age; There has even been a decline in the age of first use. As with alcohol and tobacco, a strong legislative and regulatory framework would better prevent consumption and, failing that, regulate and reduce risks. The second issue concerns the ineffectiveness of repression, which – what the executive now boasts – is mainly directed against consumers. Since the 1990s, this crackdown has increased sevenfold, while for other drug-related offences the increase is only 3 percentage points. However, only 10% of cases concern trafficking. This repression nourishes the policy of the figure, and even leads to a deviation of the mission of the forces of law and order. As the Police against Prohibition collective explains, "it is a crime that is solved as soon as it is found, it is 100% of the rate of elucidation, and that is very valuable for the figures of delinquency. 56% of the initiative activity of the cops is the repression of the use of drugs, empty the pockets and put in custody for the quarter of a gram of shit that we have at the bottom of the pocket. The fight against cannabis would thus mobilise one million hours of work of the security forces per year. A Government and a majority who claim to be serious about security could agree that police and gendarmerie forces would certainly have better things to do, including tackling international drug trafficking and other illegal businesses. In 2015, 200000 people were arrested for drug offences, 50 times more than in 1970 when it was adopted. In more than 90% of cases, they were consumers and users of cannabis; 83% were questioned for simple use. Two thirds of drug cases lead to judicial sanction; So there is no laxity, contrary to what some and some say. In 2013, nearly 57,000 convictions were handed down, of which 72% were for simple use, detention or acquisition, or 33,000 convictions, including 1,400 in prison. Over the past 10 years, around 20 per cent of the prison population has been held for drug offences. Here too, given the state of prisons and the numerous convictions of France due to overcrowding in prisons, there would be room for real deflation in prisons. Meanwhile, traffic has never been so flourishing: in 2018, an INSEE study estimated the turnover generated at 1 billion euros per year. While traffic brings a lot, mainly to network heads – privatization of profits – prohibition and repression have a high cost to the community – socialization of losses. A 2014 parliamentary report estimated €2 billion, including €850 million for the "repression, police, justice, customs, gendarmerie, prison administration" component, the amount of the bill. In 2018, two economists calculated the cost of the repressive strategy per user and user: 724 euros for police repression and 227 euros for judicial repression, against 66 euros for prevention and 15 euros for health care. It is therefore almost 1000 euros per user and user that the community would save by legalizing cannabis, not counting the new resources for the State, because of the taxes applied on the products of the sale. In the United States of America, the legalization of cannabis has brought about 10 billion taxes to the various states. According to a note from the Economic Analysis Council of 2019, the French state could thus recover €2 billion of tax revenue. For us, this is not the main argument, but it is still one. This would provide funding for a robust health and education policy. [[Applause on several benches in the FI group]] In the end, contrary to what Emmanuel Macron thinks, his government and his majority – at least until today, because it is hoped that you will change your mind – legalizing is to show courage and responsibility. This has been understood by hundreds of health professionals, such as Patrick Aeberhard, cardiologist, former president of Médecins du monde, medical-social professionals, law professionals, sociologists, such as Alain Ehrenberg, philosophers, such as André Comte-Sponville, economists, associations to reduce the collective risks of users and ushers, elected officials of all walks of life, in this assembly, in France and throughout the world, who are regularly signatories of calls and forums to this effect. In 2019, we found in L'Obs the signature of Michel Kazatchkine, former Executive Director of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, and member of the World Drug Policy Commission, which brings together personalities from all over the world, including former Heads of State and Government, Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the United Nations and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Ruth Dreifuss, former President of Switzerland, whom we heard during the work of this text, the Nobel Prize in Peruvian Literature Mario Vargas Llosa, Michèle Pierre-Louis, former Prime Minister of Haiti, Javier Solana, former representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Policy, Louise Arbour, former High Commissioner of the United Nations for Human Rights, Mohamed el-Baradei, Director-General emeritus of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Nobel Peace Prize winner, or Caesar Gaviria, former President of Colombia. All are in favour of a paradigm shift in drug policy and the legalization of cannabis. It is therefore not a lubricating matter or any marginal public or population, it is a matter taken very seriously, including at the international level, by people who have been at the forefront of the long-running policy of war against drugs and who have drawn the conclusions from it, as indeed a majority of French and French people who believe today that the policy of repression is not effective in combating drug use and are in favour of organising a debate on drug policies, according to a poll held in January 2021. Already in 2016, another poll reported that 84% of French people feel that current legislation is ineffective. Last June, 51 per cent said they were more in favour of decriminalization. The parliamentary consultation of the fact-finding mission showed that 80% were in favour of legalization and our own poll confirms these majorities. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We have the opportunity, colleagues, through this bill, to engage our country with other pioneers on this path of intelligence and progress in the service of the general interest. Here and now, let's not miss the opportunity. In any case, France insoubted will do so once in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u392	With this in mind, further discussion will be postponed to the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1122.u393	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the proposal for a law on the legalization of the production, sale and consumption of cannabis under the control of the State; Discussion of the bill to rehabilitate the soldiers "stripped for example" during the First World War; Discussion of the proposal for a law to restore the rule of law by repealing the emergency regimes created during the health crisis; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to withdraw France from NATO. The meeting is adjourned.
