ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u1	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill adopted by the Senate to modernise the regulation of the art market (No. 2362, 2721).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u2	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I will only call for the amendments and the articles to which these amendments relate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u3	The rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic has the floor to support Amendment No. 4 to delete the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u4	Finally, in a public session, we discuss this text, which was expected by the auctioneers, and which, in addition to working in concert with all the players in the profession, has been the subject of a number of reflections, particularly those developed in December 2018 in the report given to the former seal guard, Nicole Belloubet, by Henriette Chaubon and Me Édouard de Lamaze. This bill was also the subject of close and intelligent cooperation with the Senate, which is why I would like to pay tribute to our colleague Senator Catherine Morin-Desailly. Personally, as a Member of Parliament for Paris, a city that has long held the leading position in the world art market, I am particularly pleased to see this text for which I have invested myself since the beginning of my term. Voluntary sales of furniture at public auctions, which are the sparkling but fragile showcase of this market, amounted to almost €3 billion in France in 2020. They are a formidable brand and a decisive attractiveness factor for Paris and France. Some actors, however, face real difficulties: while France represented 60% of the art market until the 1960s, only 6% of works of art and collectibles are now awarded in our country. In an effort to compete with their international competitors, whether they practice in a traditional way or on the Internet, professionals therefore expect strong actions from their regulatory authority and the legislator. This bill provides for the establishment of a Council of Sales Houses (CMV), the composition of which will be renewed in relation to the Council for Voluntary Sales of Furniture at Public Auctions, and the scope of which will be better adapted to the issues of the profession, in particular with regard to continuing education. It is also planned to strengthen mediation and sanction procedures through an independent disciplinary body. With this text, we affirm an ambition: to continue to make France a central player in the art market by carrying out the modernization that voluntary sales need to develop their activity and thus preserve this intangible heritage of our country. This amendment draws the consequences of the clarifications introduced in committee and of Amendment No 8 which I will present in Article 2. It is not useful to retain the periphrases introduced by the Senate in Article 1e r A to designate auctioneers and sales houses because the generic term operator is appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u5	The Minister of Justice, the keeper of the seals, has the floor to give the Government's opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u6	I welcome the exemplary way in which the two Houses of Parliament have considered a text that illustrates the ability to overcome partisan divisions when the general interest is at stake and the need to find necessary compromises. This bill will enable the regulation of voluntary sales of furniture at public auction to be modernised and to boost this essential component of the art market. It will strengthen the French brand in a context of very strong international competition. Allow me to welcome Mrs Henriette Chaubon and Mr Édouard de Lamaze, whose remarkable report served as the basis for this text. I also have a thought for Nicole Belloubet, who has been very supportive of this initiative. This bill is also the result of a long process of consultation, carried out with all professionals in the sector and the Council for Voluntary Sales of Furniture at Public Auctions. Finally, it is very warmly and with great pleasure and friendship that I would like to thank the parliamentarians who have allowed the successful outcome of this text. They have mobilized to the end to bring about this modernization of the art market under this quinquennium. I am of course thinking of you, rapporteur, dear Sylvain – thank you for your tenacity. I am also thinking of your colleague, Jean-Michel Mis, who has constantly stood by your side. But I would also like to mention your colleagues at the Luxembourg Palace, particularly the author of this bill, Senator Catherine Morin-Desailly, who has done a lot of work since the start of the parliamentary shuttle. I would already like to thank her very sincerely, before doing so during the High Assembly's consideration of the text. Senator Morin-Desailly was obviously able to count on the support and competence of the Senate rapporteurs, Ms.Deromedi and Ms.Belrhiti. Finally, the positive conclusion of this text, which is the result of a trans-party agreement between the two chambers, could not have been possible without the support of Yaël Braun-Pivet, Chairman of the Assembly's Committee on the Laws, and François-Noël Buffet, Chairman of the Senate's Committee on the Laws. Let them be thanked for this. After these sincere and warm thanks, I would like to say that the Government is in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u7	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor for a point of order. On what basis do you make this reminder, dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u8	On the basis of Rule 39(3) of our Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I am sorry to interrupt the debate in this way, but we have just heard from the press that the Chairman of the Finance Committee, Eric Woerth, joined the presidential majority and the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u9	Thank you for the information!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u10	Excellent news!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u11	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] He just announced it. I don't know whether to applaud and, for my part, I don't care: he has the right to get the wrong horse – I know he's a hippodrome fan – that's his problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u12	What does it have to do with the rules?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u13	The report is that Rule 39(3) of our Rules of Procedure states: "Only one Member from a group who has declared himself to be opposed may be elected to the chairmanship of the Committee on Finance, General Economy and Budgetary Control. » It is therefore urgent...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u14	Mr President, it is not here and now that this issue will be resolved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u15	His group is concerned!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u16	Indeed, Madam President, you and your group are concerned! How do we do it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u17	Member of Parliament, I said what I had to say to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u18	Amendment No 5, as corrected by the rapporteur, is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u19	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 6 as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u20	It seeks to clarify the tasks of the Sales Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u21	The rapporteur's amendment No 7 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u22	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 12, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u23	This amendment changes at the margin the composition of the Sales Council to rebalance the roles of the ministries concerned. With regard to the disciplinary mission of the Council, it provides that the investigation shall be carried out by a judicial magistrate appointed as Commissioner of the Government and assisted by a former professional who shall provide him with expertise on the rules of the art and the practices of the profession. In addition to investigating complaints against professionals, the Commissioner may propose an amicable solution to disputes brought to his or her attention. He brought proceedings before the sanctions commission, whose members offered guarantees of impartiality but also had a good knowledge of professional practices. Finally, since the President of the Council of Sales Firms has the power to order the cessation of a breach and the temporary suspension of the activity of the trader in question, the amendment specifies that these powers are vested in the Chairman of the Sanctions Committee when proceedings have already been instituted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u24	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u25	This amendment has four purposes. First, it changes on the margins the composition of the Sales Council by rebalancing the number of qualified personalities appointed by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Culture. Second, it complements the CMV's role in conflict resolution and discipline. Its chairman may call on a professional to cease a breach and impose a temporary suspension of the latter's activity. These latter powers are vested in the Chairman of the Sanctions Committee when proceedings have already been instituted. Thirdly, it broadens the range of sanctions that can be imposed. Fourthly, it modifies the disciplinary procedure. The Commissioner of the Government, appointed from among the magistrates of the judicial order, investigates cases, can propose an amicable solution to disputes and initiates proceedings before the competent sanctions commission – and no longer before the judicial court in Paris – to impose sanctions. He is assisted in his mission by a former professional who has a knowledge of the practices and practices of the profession. For these four reasons, the Government is in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u26	I have two identical amendments, Nos 1 and 3. Amendment No 1 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended. Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u27	The Board of Sales Firms will have an ambitious mission to regulate voluntary sales activities. In particular, it will have to ensure the proper functioning of sales, their safety and compliance with competition rules. It will also be responsible for supervising professionals performing this activity. That is why it is not desirable to give it the power to make legislative proposals. The limit that we intend to impose by this amendment will in no way prevent the new Sales Council from becoming a privileged interlocutor of the public authorities. But it must remain a regulatory and information body for professionals in the public auction sector. To grant it a pre-legislative quasi-role could, in the long run, create conflicts of interest. That is why we propose the deletion of paragraph 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u28	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u29	Under article L. 321-18 of the Commercial Code, since 2011, the Sales Council has been able to make proposals for legislative and regulatory amendments, even though it is made up mainly of professionals. The latter also have a say in the provisions applicable to them. The removal of this mission does not seem relevant to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u30	No, I didn't!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u31	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u32	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u33	Your amendments deserve a few explanations which I will be happy to give you. First of all, it is not uncommon for a regulatory body, even with a majority of professionals, to be able to make proposals. These are a very valuable asset for the public authorities. Who knows a profession better than those who practice it? Professionals have a concrete, pragmatic and precise knowledge of the realities and developments of their profession. Their proposals therefore provide useful insight even if, of course, they do not involve the public authorities, which remain free. Therefore, the concerns expressed are not at all justified. In addition, members of the Sales Council are subject to strict ethical rules. In addition, very comprehensive provisions, concerning both the members of the College and those who will make up the Sanctions Committee, are provided for to prevent any conflict of interest. So there is no fear to have. For all these reasons, the Government is opposed to these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u35	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u36	Thank you for that clarification, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u37	But please!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u38	On the other hand, I would like to reassure you: I am in no way opposed to the modernization or the revitalization of the French art market.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u39	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u40	It plans to transfer to the Sanctions Committee of the future Sales Council the cases currently pending before the Council for Voluntary Sales of Furniture at Public Auctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u41	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u42	This amendment is absolutely necessary, and I would even say it is essential, since its objective is to facilitate the transition between the current Voluntary Sales Council and the future Sales Council. From the day of its creation, the latter will indeed resume the disciplinary proceedings under way before the Council for Voluntary Sales of Furniture at Public Auctions. Very favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u43	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u44	It specifies the conditions under which the title of auctioneer may be extended from 1 July 2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u45	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u46	For the sake of consistency with the provisions applicable to the new profession of commissioners of justice, which provide until 1 July 2026 for transitional measures concerning the former names of judicial officers and judicial auctioneers, this amendment aims to postpone to 1 July 2026 the entry into force of all the terminological changes foreseen for auctioneers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u47	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u48	This transitional amendment has the merit of clarity – which is not nothing. It allows professionals to carry the title of Commissioner-Boarder of Voluntary Sales until it is replaced by the title of Commissioner-Boarder on July 1, 2026. The Government is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u49	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u50	It aims to rewrite the article in such a way as to allow judicial officers who already engage in voluntary sales of furniture at public auction as usual not to lose this part of their activity when they become commissioners of justice. Indeed, this possibility will come to an end when the reform bringing together judicial officers and judicial auctioneers in the new profession of commissioner of justice comes into force on 1 July 2022. The judicial officers concerned – whose number is estimated to be only about 40 in France – will thus be able to continue the voluntary sales, which constitute a significant part of their activity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u51	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u52	This amendment is important for judicial officers. It is intended to allow 40 of them currently engaged in voluntary sales on a regular basis to continue to do so after 1 July 2022, without having to pass an aptitude test. Since they can justify this usual activity over a sufficiently long period of time and in significant proportions, it is of course legitimate not to deprive them of it after that date. The derogatory bridge system thus provided for is subject to strict conditions. The Voluntary Sales Council will verify that these conditions are met before registering the declaration of activity. The Government strongly supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u53	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u54	[[Smile]] It will please you, minister, because it is a request for a report – I know you love them very much! I do not table this type of amendment very often, but I like it very much. I ask the Government to submit a report on a reform of the profession of auctioneers so that they can justify in-depth training in the history of art – we had already discussed it in committee, Mr rapporteur. The auctioneers are in fact more often competent in legal matters than in the artistic field, which may give rise to some questions – in any case for some of them – about the relevance of their expertise. Perhaps it would be necessary to review the weight given to the various diplomas required to be able to pursue the profession of auctioneer of voluntary sales. Today, candidates must justify, at a minimum, a license in law and a license in art or art history. However, it would be interesting to give a pre-eminence to art training. We've all heard of valuable parts under the radar of the experts. This type of error, which sometimes occurs, is likely to cast discredit on the profession. That is why I think it is important to insist on the training of auctioneers in art or art history.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u55	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u56	I thought I was able to convince you in committee, Mrs Ménard, but since that is not the case, I will try again. In order to become a volunteer sales auctioneer, applicants must justify at least one license in law and one license in art or art history. The theoretical and practical training, over at least two years, currently organised by the Voluntary Sales Council, allows trainees to deepen their knowledge of these subjects. It seems unfair to me, given the level of qualification and expertise of auctioneers in art history, to question their training on these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u57	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u58	Many of them graduated from the best art schools, including the École du Louvre in Paris. Finally, Article 1b, adopted in committee, introduces an obligation of continuous training for auction managers, which satisfies your amendment. Training in new technologies will also be important in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u59	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u60	She's the one who will help our auctioneers the most. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u61	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u62	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u63	I will say a few words in my turn because I never despair of convincing Mrs Ménard. Of course, I will make roughly the same remarks as the rapporteur at the moment...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u64	With more talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u65	We'll see! But I do not despair that Mrs Ménard will withdraw her amendment – you never know.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u66	You say that every time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u67	First of all, I have already told you, on other issues, what I generally thought of the reports submitted to Parliament. The two assemblies already have – and this is indeed legitimate – all the means by which they can control the activity of the Government and the monitoring of a particular policy. To return to the subject of our debate, first of all, it is already demanded of the auctioneers of deep knowledge in the history of art – you will tell me that this is the least one can ask them. They must justify not only a license in law but also a license in art history to attend the very selective examination of access to the training of auctioneer – do not carry out this profession which wants. Second, during their training, the auctioneers obviously follow a very comprehensive programme in the history of art. Continuing training is planned. In conclusion, I can tell you that neither their theoretical knowledge nor their practical expertise in this field can be doubted. That is why I suggest that you withdraw this amendment, hoping that the rapporteur and I will have stereoconvinced you. Otherwise, the Government will naturally express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u68	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u69	I would like to point out that auctioneers, even in the smallest sales rooms, have a responsibility for the authenticity of the parts they sell.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u70	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u71	They know how to surround themselves with specialized experts, both for the writing of the sales catalogue and for the description of objects. This amendment is therefore not applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u72	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u73	Mr. rapporteur and Mr. Minister, don't get me wrong.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u74	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u75	I would not want my remarks to be misunderstood. For a student from the École du Louvre, there is obviously no problem, since the training has been given – if I may say so – in the rules of art. With regard to the minimum diplomas required, I simply propose that we review the current balance and give the preeminence to the history of art rather than to legal training: it seems to me that this would not be completely stupid. However, I fully understand your answer. There are also training courses specific to the profession of auctioneer, which provide the additional background in the history of the art necessary for these professionals, and which in fact make their reputation. I don't throw stones at auctioneers. I simply note that, in some cases, masterpieces pass under their radars and in some cases, these omissions are the result of people who may not have received sufficient training in art history. That's all. That is why I proposed to give art history training the pre-eminence on legal training, in order to guard against these incidents of journeys that sometimes stain the reputation of the profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u76	It's hopeless!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u77	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u78	I understand your concern, even if it is not exactly what is apparent from the text of your amendment. First of all, the auctioneers are obviously very well trained. What we intend to do, through this bill, is precisely to provide them with continuous training, not only in art, but also in all areas likely to affect them throughout their careers: their professional life is long and subject to many changes, if only in the objects they sell and are offered to them. I am thinking, for example, of digital works that will multiply in the years to come. You imply that if the auctioneers studied art history more, they could detect that a particular painting is a masterpiece. However, as we explained earlier, they are surrounded by experts, who are called upon to carry out an evaluation in a particularly specific area. This must be maintained: a auctioneer will never be an expert in everything. What he must possess is the general culture that allows him to surround himself with the necessary skills in areas of which he is not a specialist. I therefore continue my request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u79	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u80	We're not going to epilogue. If you wish to speak last, you will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u81	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u82	In this case, it is a question of training auctioneers "at the same time" – I know you don't like this concept – in the law and history of art. To carry out this profession also mobilizes more knowledge of art than of law: even if there is a legal basis, when it is acquired once and for all, what counts is the evaluation of the objects that are sold and the evolution of its knowledge of the artistic thing. I note – and I am a little sorry about that – that while we have answered both of you as best we can, you are taking the floor again to develop a completely different argument, which is no longer related to the amendment that you originally tabled. Is this due to a difficulty in admitting that we are right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u83	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u84	[[Ms Emmanuelle Ménard exclaimed]] I don't know, even if I hope I don't. For the rest, I believe that the training of auctioneers is well ensured, both in law and in the history of art. We answered your question. I am even more opposed to this amendment now that I have heard explanations that do not seem to me to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u85	There's no need to give an unfavorable opinion, since I'm taking it out!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u86	You're taking it off?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u87	Yes! I'm killing myself to tell you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u88	[[Smile]] She's been saying it for five minutes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u89	[[Smile]] So Mrs Ménard will have had the last word – I suppose, however, that's not to displease you, Mr. Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u90	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u91	The next item is the discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on the recognition of the Nation towards the harkis and other persons repatriated from Algeria formerly of civil status under local law and compensation for the damage suffered by them and their families as a result of the indignity of their reception and living conditions in certain structures on French territory (No 4981 corrected).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u92	Mrs Patricia Mirallès, rapporteur of the Joint Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u93	It is with humility and pride that I turn to you to present the draft text resulting from the work of the Joint Joint Committee. With humility, because I am aware that this bill may not respond to all the suffering, all the pain, all the trauma suffered by the harkis and their families. If we have put our whole heart to work, these lines, so deeply engraved in the marble of the law, will never, on their own, be able to erase the heavy imprint of history on the lives of our Harki fellow citizens. In this respect, this text is only one of the stages of the long process of recognition and reparation initiated almost twenty years ago and cannot constitute a balance of all accounts towards the harkis. But it is also and especially with pride that I present this text. For while this bill is certainly only one step, the latter is historic: for the first time, a text enshrines the recognition of the nation's responsibility towards the harkis and their families in the abandonment to which these citizens, French in their own right, have been victims. The bill establishes an unprecedented mechanism for them to redress the damage suffered as a result of the unworthy, sometimes inhuman, living conditions they have experienced in the camps and hamlets of forestation. It will also help to reinforce the emergence of a memory of the harkis, thanks to the work of the National Commission for the Recognition and Reparation of Damages which it establishes in Article 3. It is by this means that we will repair the fault of France, but also and above all that we will heal these always perennial wounds. The transmission of the history of the harkis to all the children of the Republic is necessary in order to respond to the abandonment that we recognize by this text. These drops of blood and tears must appear on the pages of our national novel. Duty of recognition, duty of reparation and duty of memory: on these three essential aspects, the bill is a major turning point for the harkis and their families. The work of the Joint Joint Committee had been fruitful, as the versions adopted by the two chambers had little substantive difference. In this regard, I welcome the spirit of cooperation that prevailed in discussions with our colleagues in this chamber. The main advances have focused on the role and tasks of the National Recognition and Reparation Commission, which will now be able to propose any changes in the list of structures eligible for the repair mechanism, in order to take into account the existence of grey areas highlighted by the harkis associations; to promote, in the course of its work, changes in the right to recognition and reparation for harkis and their families; Finally, please report on any individual situations that warrant specific support, in particular by the National Office for War Veterans and Victims (ONACVG). [[Prolonged conciliabules on the benches of the LR group]] Thanks to the contributions of the two assemblies, the national commission will not be merely a chamber for recording administrative decisions: it will play a real role in ensuring that the history of each harki will be recognized in its specificity and that the mechanism created by the law will take its work into account. The responsibility for this commission is heavy, but it must be entrusted to it in order for justice to be done to the harkis. This new institution reflects, in my view, the spirit that has animated us throughout the examination of this text: we have chosen to return to the harkis the keys of their own memory, to resume with them the march of our common history. Thank you for listening to me, please! I also welcome the significant progress that Article 7 represents for harkis widows, who will be able to apply for the benefit of the arrears of the lifetime allowance for a period of up to six years. Finally, I would like to recall that in addition to this text, the Government has doubled the amount of the allowance for recognition to the harkis: this unprecedented effort allows the nation to greet these veterans and their spouses with dignity since 1 January 2022. This bill has generated many comments, sometimes motivated by concerns far removed from the wish for memorial reconciliation expressed by the President of the Republic in his speech of 20 September 2021. The National Assembly had, however, largely adopted it at first reading, before the Senate did the same a few weeks later. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To reject this text is to deny the older harkis their right to reparation. It is no longer a matter of exercising any political power: only the best interests of the harkis must guide your vote. I would also be grateful to our colleagues in the group. The Republicans do not speak like this when a speaker speaks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u94	That's right, you have no respect!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u95	Oh, it's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u96	She's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u97	Let the President preside, it will be better!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u98	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister for Memory and Veterans Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u99	It is with a lot of solemnity – and, I do not hide it, a part of emotion – that I express myself before you today. Reading the conclusions of the Joint Joint Committee before your chamber marks, for this bill, the end of a parliamentary journey that I will call exemplary. First of all, I want to thank you for your work, for the respectful and balanced debates that took place first in this House and then in the Senate, but also for the amendments and enrichments that have been made to the Government's original draft. In particular, I would like to commend the rapporteurs of the two houses for the quality of their work: it was a real pleasure to exchange and work with them on the success of this bill. Through this text, the Republic has been faithful to its promise. The commitments of the Head of State, made on 20 September on behalf of France before representatives of the Harki associations and before harkis and their families, are kept and honoured. They find in this bill a concrete translation. In a few minutes, you will be asked to comment on a text that marks a new stage in the recognition that the nation owes to the fighter harkis and above all of the reparations due to some of them and their families. This new step is essential because it opens the time for forgiveness. Whatever your sensitivity, you have the opportunity to vote for a text that will mark the lives of thousands of our fellow citizens, which is part of the historical and memory depth of our country, which speaks to men and women who still feel painfully the hardships of the Algerian war and its consequences, which finally meets the requirement of fraternity of our republican pact. This bill will serve in part to satisfy the thirst for justice of our compatriots. You know the spirit behind his writing. It meets the expectations expressed throughout the quinquennium. It is the result of a long-term work – begun for my part in 2017 –, a work of listening and quasi-permanent dialogue with representative associations, and of exchanges on the sites of memory of the harkis and on their current places of life. It is also a follow-up to the report "Aux harkis, la France reconnaissance" issued in 2018 by prefect Dominique Ceaux. During the hours of debate we shared, we recalled the history of the harkis. We have traced the journeys of these men and women between the two shores of the Mediterranean. We have affirmed the nation's recognition of a French tragedy. For yes, the fate of the harkis after the Algerian war is a deep tear in our national novel, a dark page in our history. France turned its back on brave fighters, its fighters, those who had faithfully served it from 1954 to 1962, those who had believed in the promises of the tricolor banner and the fraternity of arms, those who had lost everything: their homeland, their home, their property... This is the singularity of this drama. That is why I wanted this text to be a new affirmation of the nation's gratitude to all the Harki fighters who served our country during the Algerian war. I will never forget the lessons of French fidelity that their history bears. We all still have in our ears the testimonies and stories of the harkis landed one day in 1962 on the ground of France. This account is that of the removal from their roots, of the painful exile on a land finally unknown; that of the incomprehension and uncertainty of families swept away by events like fetuses in the wind of history. I know how to associate national representation with this emotion that grabs us when we talk to our fellow Harkis. We know, the truth is cruel. France has procrastinated to open its doors to the harkis and their families. Among those waiting for hospitality and fraternity, many found hostility or even arbitrariness. For many, the arrival on metropolitan soil marked the beginning of bruises, marginalization and particularly unworthy living conditions. We recalled the ills and traumas, insults and long-term consequences on the children of harkis. This betrayal of the republican promise is the honour of the Republic to denounce it forcefully and to include it in the marble of the law. Thus, we are effectively and surely completing the repair building built for several decades under many governments and majorities. I am particularly grateful for that. The final version of the text makes it possible to anchor in the law the national day of 25 September and to enrich it by paying tribute to our compatriots who accompanied harkis when they arrived on metropolitan soil. I am glad that we have found the way to show them the esteem of the nation. Then, this bill clarifies the scope of compensation for the damage suffered, establishes a national commission of recognition and reparation, whose prerogatives you have greatly enriched. It also updates and strengthens pre-existing arrangements for greater equity. At the same time, I would like to point out, after the rapporteur, that the recognition allowance for the Harki fighters and their widows has been doubled. With you, I am aware that nothing can change the wanderings of the past, that nothing can heal wounds or erase trauma. Nevertheless, I strongly believe that the state must do everything possible to promote a better knowledge of the history of the harkis. It is essential that the journeys and fates of harkis are better known and better understood throughout France. There is, of course, an essential issue of memory transmission, but also an educational, cultural and, I believe, moral issue, because there is no real recognition without the knowledge of facts and events. I say it forcefully in a time when historical facts are subjected to unprecedented assaults, where they are manipulated, instrumentalized, distorted until they are twisted. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] The Republic knows and recognizes its shortcomings. She faces the painful truth. But we also know that the harkis, their children and their grandchildren have made France, that they still make France, that they will always make France, because their history has always been that of a French destiny and fidelity. By voting on this text, ladies and gentlemen, you are also doing fraternity work. And for that, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u100	In the general debate, Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u101	The history of France is a bloc. We cannot dissociate the shadow zones from the light zones. What is important today is no longer to denounce or reveal secrets; it is to understand and even more to accept. It is not a question of resignation, but of accepting that this past, and perhaps even more so the way it was managed after the war, is over. In this sense, in line with the Stora report and the Duclert report, the recent announcement by the Minister of Culture to open, fifteen years in advance, the archives on judicial investigations related to the Algerian war, the recent recognition by the President of the Republic of the shooting of Rue d'Isly in Algiers, France can be proud of its memorial work. It took courage to shed light on the shadows of our history. We stand up to history when few nations dare to confront their own darkness. One more step is being taken today with the consideration of this bill. It concludes a work of recognition and reparation carried out throughout the quinquennium in favour of harkis, whether in 2018, the increase of the recognition allowance and the lifetime allowance of 600 euros per year, or the creation, in 2019, of a social support fund for the children of harkis, with 13.6 million euros – nearly 2000 of them have been helped. In his speech on Monday, 20 September 2021, the President of the Republic recalled the purpose of the bill. This text is not intended to say what history is – it is the role of historians: on the other hand, it highlights the singularity of the drama of the harkis, linked to the abuse of families received in the metropolis. By greasing in the marble of the law the responsibility of France in the conditions of reception of the harkis, we also respond to a historical demand of the associations. Finally, we will continue to make this page of our history live and maintain it in memory, so that the French do not forget, in particular thanks to the day of tribute set for September 25. At the end of the Joint Joint Committee, this text is strengthened and enriched. Article 1 does not omit anything from this page of our history by recalling that we "forsaken" the harkis and that after the Evian agreements, their conditions of reception were "a source of exclusion, suffering and trauma". I thank our honourable senators, who are in connection with the Government, for amending the text so that the section 3 commission is attached to the Prime Minister and not to the ONACVG. In addition, the President of the Republic appointed the Chairman of the Commission, reflecting the State's commitment to this issue. The Government, the Parliament and the associations have therefore worked together, it should be recalled. We also stress the CMP's desire to overcome hatred by deleting Article 8, which established a specific offence of insult. No, having been a substitute for the French army is no shame! It was necessary not to keep this article that could have rekindled wounds. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is therefore a major memorial step forward and a fair remedy for the harkis. It allows France, our country, to be more united, more dignified and better prepared to face other hazards in history. In short, we are more able to make nation. [[Applause on the banks of the Action ens group and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the European People's Party therefore thanks all those who have contributed to this work and will vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u102	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u103	"The Nation expresses its gratitude to the harkis [...] who served France in Algeria and who it abandoned. It recognizes its responsibility for the indignity of reception and living conditions in its territory [...]". These words of Article 1 finally allow Parliament to put, sixty years later, in the marble of the law, what had only been outlined so far. It's about time. It was time for France's responsibility for the fate reserved for those soldiers who had defended their country before being abandoned on their land of origin at the mercy of the very ones they had fought. It was time for France's responsibility in the indignity of the living conditions reserved for those French citizens who, for only a part of them, had been able to take refuge in Hexagon, parked in camps like animals. However, nothing can make the dead forget, nothing can erase suffering, nothing can put an end to humiliation. No recognition, no compensation, no revalorization can repair the irreparable. The memorial wound is as indelible as the stain on the Republic, and the debt of the French State towards the harkis is imprescriptible. So, yes, the establishment of a national day of tribute to the harkis on 25 September, as well as the introduction of the right to reparation, are further advances, enriched by the Senate, in the process of progressive recognition of the nation's responsibility in this French shipwreck. We support them in the same way that we welcome the unanimous and trans-party gathering of the Parliament of the Republic around this bill. To remember, we have to be together: we do. The memory of the Algerian war is that of the harkis, but it is also that of the Algerian returnees. All these memories are still outstanding because of France's deafening non-declaration of tragic events, which were finally officially recognised by the President of the Republic in his speech of 26 January. The uprooting of the land of Algeria is a carnal uprooting, it is the uprooting of a mosaic people, composed of French but also foreigners from Central Europe, Germany, Malta, Italy and Spain; A people of artisans, traders and farmers, but also, for the majority, of workers and modest employees, in contrast to the caricature that is too often carried out. A people that was deceived. As early as 1959, General de Gaulle did not say: "French Algeria is a fichaise [...]". A people that was deceived before being abandoned. A people against whom France fired on 26 March 1962, rue d'Isly, as he demonstrated his strong commitment to his country. As the Head of State pointed out, it was a "unforgivable massacre for the Republic", "a massacre of which no definitive list of the victims was established". A people that France forgot, on 5 July 1962, in Oran, where hundreds of Europeans were also massacred, the French army remaining in its barracks while the government of the Republic had been duly alerted. A massacre that must also be there "looked in front and recognized", according to Emmanuel Macron's words. These massacres reflect the shadows of France. A people, finally, which France abandoned. A people fleeing, in indescribable chaos, who rushed to ports and airports for their survival. "The suitcase rather than the coffin", according to the consecrated formula. A people who encountered mistrust, indifference or rejection when they set foot in the Hexagone, Gaston Defferre, then mayor of Marseilles, going so far as to declare to the headlines of the daily Le Méridional: "Let the black feet go to adapt elsewhere". Black feet persona non grata on their original land; French people persona non grata in their country. The President of the Republic has found the words to say the indescribable, words expected for so long that they have aroused a powerful emotion among those who have experienced this French exodus. Today, a draft law on the harkis, yesterday, words about the Algerian returnees: these are all milestones on the way to appease memories to the impossible healing. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The UDI-I Group will of course vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u104	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u105	The way in which France treated the harkis after 1962 will remain a stain in our history. This painful memory has been hidden for several decades, before gradually leaving room for late recognition. Here I would like to recall the facts: 60,000 victims of massacres, abandoned by their own homeland, and of the 90,000 harkis who had the chance to flee Algeria to join France, more than 40,000 were sent to camps or to forest hamlets, living there in shameful conditions! In these unworthy places, families have experienced misery, promiscuity, barbed wire and physical violence; the children were out of school and did not benefit from the Republican education to which they were entitled. The Liberties and Territories Group supported the bill at first reading and therefore welcomes the agreement reached with the Senate. I would point out that this text is not the first to deal with this painful subject, and that France's recognition of the harkis has taken shape in many parliamentary debates in recent years. The nation is never as big as it is when it confronts its own past and recognizes its mistakes. What message should our republic send to those of its veterans whom it has abandoned, as well as to their loved ones? A message of regret in a logic of forgiveness. She must say that she will never forget and, above all, that she will provide the harkis and their descendants with unwavering support. Of course, the time of repair must go hand in hand with the time of recognition. In this regard, the bill contains the right words regarding the recognition of the conditions of reception in the camps I have just mentioned. This registration at the legislative level marks the end of a denial and permanently removes the veil that concealed the physical and moral violence, confinement and other deprivation of liberty suffered by the harkis and their families. However, while words are important and even essential, they are obviously not enough. Nearly sixty years after the Evian Accords, it is up to the State to remedy its past shortcomings, and it is never too late to do so. In this sense, I welcome the opening of a new right to reparation. But I also understand the reservations made by certain associations: compensation for damage is reduced and concerns only the harkis who have stayed in certain reception facilities. De facto, therefore, are excluded from the scheme those who have joined our country by their own means and have subsequently faced poverty and exclusion alone. We'll need a day to go further. In any case, it is envisaged that the amount of the allowance will be calculated on the basis of the length of stay and the compensation already received. The scale, fixed by regulation, provides 3000 euros for a stay exceeding three months in camps or in forest hamlets, plus 1000 euros per additional year... 1000 euros for a lost year, it remains little! And who could believe here that a few thousand euros will be enough? Despite these reservations, I remain convinced that the financial aspect of the bill is indispensable. However, a method problem arises that we had already denounced at first reading: the appropriations voted at the request of the Government during the consideration of the finance bill for 2022 – an envelope of almost 50 million euros had then been included in the Veterans' Mission, memory and ties with the nation – immediately set a limit to our debates. Setting such a ceiling even before Members of Parliament were seized of the bill still reflected a certain contempt of the Government for parliamentary work. [[Protests on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, like many others, I note that this text comes very late and, by chance, shortly before the presidential and legislative elections. But better late than never!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u106	It's amazing to hear that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u107	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These reservations, however, do not detract from the usefulness and importance of this text, and our group therefore hopes that its adoption will be as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u108	Mr François Ruffin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u109	As this law concerns memory, I would like to bring to this official forum the memory of the harkis in my corner. We know that history began thousands of kilometres further south, on the other side of the Mediterranean, sixty years ago: the end of the Algerian war with, in the middle, the harkis enlisted in the French army; after years of conflict sounded the hour of armistice. L. says: "I left the uniform in March 62. But the French have abandoned us in defeat, that's it. They left us there. It's worse than betrayal! It's like we're being taken to the butcher shop. Our leaders, they didn't give a shit, they took away our guns, our shoes, just like you're making a sheep for Eid! Some officers who, fortunately, did not have "nothing to give a fuck" then returned their men to the metropolis, discreetly, in the bunkers of the ships. But Minister Louis Joxe hastened to ban these initiatives. He requires punishment. The aim is "to seek the promoters and accomplices of these companies and to take appropriate sanctions. Wanting to protect his soldiers becomes almost a war crime.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u110	Louis Joxe's son thought otherwise!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u111	We must remember that it was the disobedients, in this case the disobedient officers, who then saved the honour of France by saving 15,000 men, including Mr. L. He landed in Perpignan with, in his own words, "a suitcase, nothing in my hands, nothing in my wallet. The only thing we had was life, and we were happy with it. From the south, a train takes them, a little at random. On July 6, 1962, at two o'clock in the morning, they descended in Amiens, the military projectors pointed on the tracks, lighting women with babies full of breasts, feet that stumble on the steps, men who support an old man; We don't have the suitcases, we're just a bunch of stuffed packages, and the families fail there, grouped, terrified, jammed on the waves of history, their bled in Algiers and then in France in the camps – the North today, where tomorrow? In the pictures, they are peasants in costume with toques, tired of this trip in third class in wooden wagons, tired of their destiny of third class, waste of a war rejected here or elsewhere, cargo of poor with exile for sole luggage, who do not go off to assault any America, of any revenge, only in search of a refuge safe from rifles. The Red Cross comforts them with a Viandox coming out of a cart driven by young girls – even the pitance is third class. Then they are pushed into military trucks; the grey buildings march to an unknown place... The engine's shutting down. In the dark, a torch in the hand, a uniform opens the way to a barn, pushes the door of his hip: straw is laid on the earth, they will sleep there women, even pregnant, and their babies too. We're unpacking. We're starting to lie down. But three harkis, commanders, complain, they yell: "We are men! We're not animals! Then everyone goes back: head for the citadel of Amiens. "Today, I wouldn't accept it," says S.. "I'd punch on the table. They've received us like animals. At the time, we didn't know how rich France was. She made fun of us, France... Ten square meters for two families, separated by a sheet! And in winter, no heating! In winter 63, it was terrible... just like a stable... from gadoba everywhere, a rink... With our wives, and mine was pregnant, our babies in the swaddles... With the poor like us, it is rapacious France. » The others were taken to Doullens, also in a citadel. They will reside there, in this former prison for nobles, then for women, abandoned in 1959 because of moisture and lack of health. The building is requisitioned for a period of three months. This provisional period will last three years, until May 1965. Mr. R. still grumbles: "We were tailing like tramps, my word of honor. We slept ten times a room. We were doing our needs in a pot, in front of the women, in a corner of the room, with just a curtain to hide. » France had already, through the voice of François Hollande, recognized its responsibility for the abandonment of the harkis. Today, France will recognize the ill-treatment and abuse they have endured in our territory. I thank the honourable senators – on the right – for expanding this recognition beyond the logging hamlets by including the prisons converted to the places where the returnees are accommodated. But on the financial side, what a regret! The amount of compensation is a matter of alms: three years in these camps will be entitled to 5000 euros! Three years deprived of liberty and it's on arrival, Madam Secretary of State, less than a month's pay! It seems to me derisory, almost contemptuous. And I regret that you have linked the two aspects of the question in the same text. On the symbolic part, that is, on recognition, I applaud. But on repairs, it's not acceptable. As Konrad Adenauer said: "History is the total of things that could have been avoided. And many could have been avoided in this terrible story.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u112	Mr Alain Bruneel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u113	Yesterday, we commemorated the Charonne massacre. That was sixty years ago. The police prefect, Maurice Papon, condemned in blood a demonstration for independence in Algeria; 9 communist and trade union activists were then murdered, 250 injured. I would like us to have a thought for these men and women who have fallen victim to the bestial violence of the French colonial state. "The colonial action, the colonial enterprise, the colonial conquest, based on the contempt of the indigenous man inevitably tends to alter the one who undertakes it; the colonizer, who, to give himself good conscience, gets used to seeing the beast in the other, trains to treat it as a beast, tends objectively to turn himself into a beast. This quote from Aimee Césaire illustrates France's inhuman behavior through its colonial enterprise in Algeria; an inhumanity which has also been reflected in the abandonment of the harkis and their families, and in the unworthy treatment of those who have arrived to the metropolis. The approach taken by this text touches on a dark page of our history. I would first like to recall several strong positions of our group: the emancipation of human beings is impossible when peoples are subjected to colonialism or imperialism; self-determination of peoples has always been our compass; The honour of our country must be to know how to look at our own history objectively and to ask for forgiveness to the peoples exploited and colonized for too many years. The purpose of this bill is to respond to the legitimate claim for compensation for harm suffered by the harkis. Of course, we fully share that intention, as we recalled at first reading. Yes, it is healthy to insurrection in the unworthy manner in which the harkis were welcomed upon their arrival in France. Many of them arrived by boat, nearing death, were locked up, after crossing the border, in camps surrounded by wires and wires. A dramatic reality that causes suffering and trauma for thousands of people. I would like to recall the words spoken by André Chassaigne at first reading when he described humans "out in ghosts of themselves, broken, mutilated, impoverished, dispossessed of their property, but also uprooted – not the least of their suffering –, cut off from their native land [...]. These conditions were inhumane and the French State must be held accountable for this damage. If the harkis were so harshly welcomed, it was not because they were harkis but because Algeria had become independent and they were foreigners. It is unacceptable to treat in this way human beings seeking to join France. Other times, another context, but this remains true today, especially in Calais, where the violence and ill-treatment perpetrated by the State against the exiles are unworthy of our Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u114	The harkis fought for France!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u115	To return to the text that concerns us today, and despite this undeniable reality of the colonial war waged by France and its surrogates to the Algerian people, it is more than time to recognize the fundamental rights attached to every human being, including the right to human dignity. The harkis cannot under any circumstances be an exception and deserve recognition and reparation in the face of the indignities suffered. This bill is moving on. He proposes that we take a few further steps, of which we welcome the importance. It's not all settled. In fact, a law would be unable to completely regulate such a page in history. [[François Ruffin and the rapporteur applaud]] It is positive that together we stand up to the unworthy conditions under which human beings from North Africa have been treated. This is relatively rare in times running. We will therefore vote on this law even if we expect more. France must be held accountable for its actions. Freedom, equality, fraternity – and above all humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u116	Mr Olivier Damaisin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u117	I am very happy and very moved to be with you to conclude our discussions on a bill at all historical points. I welcome the work that the Assembly and the Senate have done in recent months, which has enriched the text. The unanimous votes of the two assemblies, going beyond the political divides, demonstrate our common desire to put an end to the long process, begun in 2001, of recognizing the abandonment of the harkis by the French Republic. The outcome of this text is also a thank you: thank you to the harkis, to the former substitutes, for their commitment to France. But the conclusion of this text is also to recognize the mistakes, the abandonment by France of the harkis, the returnees formerly of civil status under local law and their families. Parliamentarians, as the President of the Republic did in his speech of 20 September, clearly recognize the responsibility of the authorities for the unworthy conditions in which the harkis and their families were welcomed to French territory after the Evian Accords. According to the words of the President of the Republic, this text aims to "include in the marble of our laws the recognition and reparation of the harkis". As I have pointed out on many occasions, the passage of this bill is essential in order to move forward on the path of reconciliation of memories. The recognition of the nation is also expressed by the payment of recognition allowances and lifetime allowances, which have already been increased by 600 euros since 2017, and which have been doubled as of January, as you recalled, Madam Minister Delegate. Some citizens of my constituency called me and wrote to me about it. Some harki widows never received the allowance because they had not been informed of its existence. I am very pleased that they can now claim to do so. On behalf of these citizens, I thank you, Madam Minister Delegate, for your commitment and for keeping your promises. Reparation for harm suffered by harkis is a major step forward. I am pleased that this project dear to our President, who had committed himself to finalizing a text before the end of the quinquennium, is being voted on today in our House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u118	There will at least have been a commitment of duty!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u119	I simply and sincerely hope that on this 9th February we will be proud of the work done and that we thank once again the commitment of the harkis for France. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Of course, the La République group is in the process of voting for this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u120	Mrs Michèle Tabarot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u121	We are at the end of the parliamentary process on the bill to recognize and compensate the harm suffered by the harkis. A conclusion that leaves a bitter taste. I sat on the Joint Joint Committee which examined this text and, like my colleague Julien Aubert, I voted against it. I voted against because this text leaves behind tens of thousands of harkis on the pretext that they did not live surrounded by barbed wire. It is shameful to deny the unworthy living conditions in which those who have piled up in unhealthy housing so as not to be locked up in camps. They too have the right to recognition and reparation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u122	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u123	We had to do it first!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u124	I voted against this text also because the strong demands of the harkis have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u125	All the Senate had to do was propose it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u126	They wanted their French citizenship to be engraved in the marble of the law. That was refused. They wanted insults to their memory to be more heavily penalized. That was refused. They wanted, like the Blackfoot, that the commemorations of the sinister March 19 Evian Accords were no longer official. This was also refused to them. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the magnitude of the gap between the promise of the Head of State and the reality of an action that effectively excludes thousands of potential beneficiaries without even proposing a memorial reparation. We have seen the great receptions and the speeches filled with emotion of the President of the Republic towards the harkis and then towards the returnees. I don't believe it, I'm a black-foot girl.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u127	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u128	... because I do not forget the acts committed by the Head of State which have been felt as insults to the memory of those who have lived these dark hours. True soothing requires official apology for having assimilated blackfoot and harkis to criminals against humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u129	Anything! Lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u130	Real appeasement requires that concrete efforts be made to enable the harkis who wish to return to their homeland, where they are still threatened, to live there in peace. The real appeasement requires the President to go to our graves rather than go to bloom the monument of the FLN, as he did in Algiers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u131	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u132	It hurts!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u133	Yes, true appeasement will come not only from words; It requires strong actions, and that we do not remember the tragedy of the harkis only in the run-up to the elections. Although consideration of the text in the Senate has made some progress, particularly for those who were initially excluded from reparation, this remains insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u134	It's easy to come and do the beauty at the last moment, but you had to work first!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u135	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] I would advise you to remain silent, Madam rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u136	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u137	[[Same movements]] I heard what you said. Respect your function.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u138	Calm down, please! Go on, Mrs. Tabarot.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u139	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – "What a shame! » on several benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, I maintain my position and will vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u140	Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u141	On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, I am pleased that the discussions between the Assembly and the Senate have led to a common text in the CMP. This is in line with the will of the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, expressed on 20 September, not only to ask for forgiveness of the harkis and their families on behalf of France, but above all to translate this apology into a new law of recognition and reparation. Such a perspective naturally encouraged us to act in a trans-party setting – or almost. The memory duty of the nation to all these women and men who have worked for France and whose sufferings remain present is therefore not only reaffirmed in this text, but also well-materialized, correlatively, by a duty of reparation. [[Brouhaha on the benches of the LR group]] The legislative situation showed that it was necessary to review some of the conditions relating to the benefit of the living allowance due to spouses and ex-spouses, married or having entered into a civil pact of solidarity, survivors of former harkis, moghaznis and staff of the various alternative and assimilated local civil status training courses that had served in Algeria. Our two chambers agreed on the importance of allowing the latter to retain the benefit of such an allowance despite a late request or the absence of a file. [[Brouhaha persistent on the benches of the LR group]] It is also a question of extending to spouses and ex-spouses of persons "assimilated" to members of supplementary training courses, previously not concerned, the scope of this lifetime allowance. This measure also applies to those persons who have established their residence in another Member State of the European Union and who, until then, had encountered difficulties in receiving this allowance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u142	Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, I ask you to continue your discussions outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u143	Definitely, from the very beginning, our colleagues have been disrespecting this bill! These provisions directly echo the findings of the working group chaired by Prefect Dominique Ceaux. Harkis are an elderly and mostly vulnerable population whose living conditions have marked their existence. Therefore, the situation of the widows of these courageous men should be of particular interest to us. Similarly, consideration should be given to the situation of women who had divorced from a harki and who, if their former spouse was still alive, could not receive an allowance to compensate for the consequences of their repatriation to France. For all these reasons, I am very pleased with the final version of the text adopted by the Joint Joint Committee, the result of a genuine parliamentary debate between our two assemblies. Promulgation of such a law will be a pride for all of us: through its new provisions, it meets the expectations and hopes of the harkis and their families. The younger generations, in particular, are delighted that their history is being taught on a national commemoration day scheduled for 25 September. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you will have understood, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote with enthusiasm. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, the rapporteur, for your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u144	On the vote on the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the groups The Republic on the Move and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u145	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text. I would like to pay tribute here to the spirit of harmony that has guided all of our parliamentary work, particularly in the Defence Committee. We owed it to the harkis, the returnees and their families. Indeed, while it is not for parliamentarians to do the work of scientists in writing history, it is the duty of the people's representatives to pay tribute to those who sacrificed themselves for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u147	From the beginning of the Algerian war, it is estimated that almost 150,000 of them had responded to the call to defend the French Republic. Some have paid for it with their lives. We had to recognize this sacrifice; That's what we do with this law. This recognition cannot go without that of the inhuman conditions in which the harkis and their families were subsequently received in France. Already completely uprooted from their land of origin, they are almost 88,000 to have been relegated to transit centres, forest hamlets, camps, closed cities. They are segregated, isolated, hungry and unsanitary, far from respect for human dignity. I would like to recall that it is necessary to wait until 1975, thirteen years after the beginning of the repatriations, for the French Republic to begin to improve their living conditions, and thirty-two years for the last camp to close. This culpable delay has caused deep and lasting trauma to the harkis, the returnees from Algeria and their families. For this abandonment, this injustice, France must ask for forgiveness. But if this recognition is to be enshrined in the laws of the Republic and in our collective memory, it must also involve financial reparation. I am therefore pleased that the CMP has made it possible to make progress and confirm several points on which we had alerted the Government at first reading. Indeed, the original text referred to "the abandonment of the harkis". We had tabled an amendment to replace this expression with the stronger and fairer one of "absorbing the harkis"; The CMP confirmed this. Our group also stressed the importance of clarifying the missions of the ONACVG and those of the future national commission for the recognition and reparation of the harm suffered by the harkis, in order to avoid administrative shuttles which sometimes discourage our fellow citizens from asserting their rights. The text now specifies these powers, and distinguishes the recognition and reparation commission of the ONACVG, by placing it under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister. That's a good thing. I would like to welcome a third step forward: the extension of the repair mechanism, which will allow compensation to all the harkis, and not only those who have passed through the camps or hamlets of forest, as originally proposed by the Government. The CMP finally confirmed the progress achieved in the Senate with regard to the extension to six years, instead of four, of the duration of arrears for widows under the lifetime allowance. It also maintained the principle of assisting the descendants of the harkis to the second degree in their administrative procedures for access to the common legal aid schemes. This is an important step forward whose practical consequences are not negligible for all those who can benefit from it. Finally, I would like to renew the alerts of my colleagues Olivier Faure and David Habib as well as the Socialist and related group as a whole. It is estimated that the compensation scheme should benefit more than 50,000 people, where only 5,469 persons were covered by the aid already in place. It is therefore imperative for the Government to ensure that the human and financial resources will be sufficient to process applications. I will conclude by recalling that this spirit of concord is in keeping with the positions of Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and François Hollande. The latter stated in his statement of 25 September 2016: "This truth is ours, and I make it clear here, on behalf of the Republic. I recognize the responsibility of the French governments to abandon the harkis, the massacres of those left in Algeria, and the inhuman reception conditions of the families transferred to the camps in France. That is France's position. » [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I say again, the Socialist and related group will vote in favour of this text, because the nation must be unanimous in recognizing the harm done to the harkis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u148	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u149	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 142 Number of votes cast 131 Absolute majority 66 For adoption 122 Against 9
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u150	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u151	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to thank you very sincerely and with great emotion for this very strong vote. I listened carefully to the various interventions. Not everything is perfect, I have the humility to say it, because perfection does not exist. As for the excessive comments I have heard, I think they are worth nothing, precisely because they are excessive. We had the courage to propose this law. We built it together and you voted for it. I thank you, not on behalf of the Government, but for the harkis and their families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The scheme was estimated at €310 million. I really thank you because I believe that this will allow our country to travel with the harkis and for the harkis, and we need to walk together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u154	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u155	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u156	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u157	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to democratise sport in France (No 4930, 4994).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u158	The Secretary of State for Priority Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u159	Where's the sports minister?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u160	First of all, allow me to address a friendly and kind greeting to the Minister responsible for sports, Roxana Maracinanu, who unfortunately cannot be with us today. I know how much he cares about this text and, on behalf of the Government, I will try to raise our commitment to sport in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u161	In that case, where's Mr. Blanquer?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u162	Here we are for a new reading of the bill to democratize sport in France. Waiting for several years, it marks major advances for sport in terms of development, transparency, democracy and protection. This text, enriched by the contributions of many parliamentarians, carries with it transformations, modernity and the future. The sport needs it, and fast. I believe that we are all convinced here of the usefulness, effectiveness and benefits of sport for the education of our children, for public health, for our physical and psychological well-being, for the cohesion of our country and for the integration of everyone, especially the most fragile. Because it brings solutions and creates spaces for sharing, because it creates emotion and because the emotion is felt, sport needs to be helped to develop and conquer new territories of intervention. He needs to see the doors of school, disability and health open wide. We have a responsibility to remove the obstacles to its development among as many of our fellow citizens, and the health crisis has only accelerated this emergency as isolation, distrust and sedentaryness are gaining ground on a daily basis. Beyond the current health context, we have before us a unique, historic and exciting deadline: the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris. In two years, we will receive the world at home, and we want to show it the best face of our country: that of a France that is welcoming, modern and responsible, of a France that inspires and traces a path of progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u163	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u164	In the run-up to the Paris 2024 Games, which we will collectively ensure are those of the whole of France, we must ensure that, thanks to this bill, French sport is at the forefront of global sport on ethical, democratic and integrity issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u165	And women's presence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u166	In these areas, French sport is lagging behind, far behind, particularly as regards equality between women and men, the renewal of its strengths and its ability to attract new audiences. I am aware that such changes are not easy to achieve, but they are essential to allow sport to reinvent itself, so that it resembles the society in which it aspires to play a more prominent role. Parity in the governing bodies of the federations, the limitation of the mandates of presidents and presidents and the greatest representation of clubs in their election are the pillars of this transformation. The players in sport are aware of this; Many of them are already ready and our duty, that of the Ministry responsible for sports, is to accompany all federations in this virtuous transformation. Surprisingly, the obstacles to these developments have not come from the federations, which are nevertheless the first concerned, but from some parliamentarians, the same ones who said that the text was not ambitious enough. Worse, in the context of a presidential campaign, several political groups, including the right wing, have taken the bill hostage for partisan purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u167	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u168	Like the majority of you on these benches, I deeply believe that sport is a means of overcoming social, cultural and economic divisions and helping to cement the nation. Attempts to use this text, with a view to relaunching the discussions on neutrality in sport and in the public sphere, are harmful; In short, they are disconnected from the concerns of the vast majority of clubs, educators and volunteers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u169	You have to get out of your house and go a little to sports clubs!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u170	I do not deny that sport, as well as our society as a whole, is affected by many ills and particularly by community phenomena. And I think you'll have the floor after me, Madam Member of Parliament!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u171	You're attacking us! Stop attacking us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u172	Yes, sport is faced with radicalization. Yes, the Government is fighting this phenomenon in the sports sector, as never before. The Government as a whole is working with determination and seriousness. The large number of amendments aimed at reintroducing these issues into the text will give me an opportunity earlier to detail what we are doing to preserve sport from any form of instrumentalisation and to combat violations of the Republican Pact. I would like to recall that these subjects were the subject of lengthy discussions during the parliamentary proceedings of 2021 on the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic. And as far as sport is concerned, Parliament has decided – you have decided – very clearly, guaranteeing the application of the principle of secularism as set out in our Constitution: you have enshrined freedom of conscience in individual or collective activities, including associative activities, and intransigence without exception in the face of the behaviour that breaks with the common foundation of our Republic. It is precisely in order to strengthen the means to combat religious separatism and proselytism that the Act of 24 August 2021 created the Republican contract of engagement, now binding on all associations recognized or subsidized by the State or the communities. It is precisely in order to combat these abuses that we have created the CLIRs – departmental units to combat Islamism and the community retreat – to which the youth and sport services are now systematically associated, and that we strengthen the targeted controls of the structures. That is why we have built a network of referents in our establishments and in our deconcentrated departments of the Ministry responsible for sports, but also within the sports federations. Finally, it is in this perspective that we introduce, in the new delegation contract, new prerogatives attributed to the sports movement to detect, prevent and report suspicious behaviour. But let's go back to the text. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the desire to make France a more sporting nation, by promoting the development of sport in all fields of our society. Democratizing sport means making it more accessible to all, in all territories, at all ages and at all times of life. This is the whole purpose of the text, which opens up new horizons for the world of sport while preparing it for the great challenges that confront us. Sport is a pillar of our children's education. In order to strengthen its educational role as well as its place in school, the Ministry of Sports has moved closer to that of national education. To give substance to an educational alliance, this notion that you reintroduced in the text last week, in committee – thank you, Madam rapporteur – is to recognize the fundamental role of the educator, the club, the association for the benefit of our youth. The bill strengthens access to sport for as many as possible, including persons with disabilities, whether in school or in a professional setting; It also enables us to act as closely as possible to the territories, whose clubs are major socio-economic actors, which must be better considered. We are convinced that giving sports players new perspectives and opening up unexplored fields can only be achieved by introducing guarantees. As you know, over the last three years we have undergone a major reform of the French sports model. This transformation is now based on a new relationship between the State and sports federations: the supervision exercised by the Ministry has replaced itself with increased autonomy combined with strengthened means and responsibilities; As for the State, it is involved in the field of accompaniment and control, and we hope that this control will be considerably enriched. In this renewed landscape, sports federations are more recognized for their social and educational role. These new prerogatives involve evolutions that should enable them to be in line with our time and with the aspirations of practitioners. I referred to it at the beginning of my speech: we have already fully undertaken a work in this direction, protecting the republican pact in the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic. But we need to go even further. This is the purpose of Title II of the draft law, which thoroughly renews the governance of federations by providing for parity within their governing bodies and those of their regional leagues, by placing clubs more at the heart of the voting system for the election of leaders, but also by limiting the number of mandates of presidents and, tomorrow, presidents. I wanted to thank you, Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan, for re-establishing these ambitions – which we share – during the re-reading in committee. Finally, Title III contains essential provisions to strengthen and secure the economic model of sport. While we still have to deal with the consequences of the health crisis, we must give amateur and professional sport the opportunity to emerge stronger, while preserving our model. Your recent work, Mr Cédric Roussel, has indeed demonstrated this: to be better armed against the drifts that weaken its model, the sports movement needs to renew its structures. We can therefore welcome the fact that the proposed law endorses the creation of a platform to ensure the integrity of sports competitions, and contains an article aimed at combating the illegal offer of sports betting – this is a major issue, particularly in view of the upcoming major competitions that we will host. We know, ladies and gentlemen, your intransigence on the subject of violence in the stadiums; It is discriminatory violence, physical violence that hurts and humiliates. In order to put an end to this, the Deputy Minister for Sport presented to the Senate, on behalf of the Government, an amendment to create a flat-rate fine procedure, which follows the commitments recently made by the world of football. It illustrates both the method and the Government's ambition to combat this scourge: it is a question of punishing, but rightly so, by always placing pressure on the perpetrators of such acts. Finally, the sports sector must also be encouraged to innovate; the proposed law allows it, by opening up the possibility for professional leagues to set up a commercial company within a framework governed by the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, what Roxana Maracinanu said to you last March, I would like to reiterate to you today: this text is useful, concrete, pragmatic and innovative. I would like to commend the quality of your work and the constructive dialogue the department has had with you, the rapporteurs. Like the Minister Delegate, I also have a special thought for our millions of volunteers, who are the foundations of the community setting with so much human and social connection, and for our athletes and coaches, who are making sport a great spectacle – for the greatest happiness of the supporters we are. And I salute our athletes, who are now giving the best of themselves at the Winter Games and on all terrains in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u173	Mrs Céline Calvez, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, spoke on Title I.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u174	A little over a year ago, the groups of the presidential majority tabled this bill; in March 2021, we adopt it almost unanimously of our assembly. After his passage in the Senate, it must be noted that this unanimity has eroded and that the many articles added by the senators have instilled confusion and division, sometimes taking the opposite of the sports values that we were happy to share.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u175	With fair play, we did not systematically come back, in committee, on the enrichments of the text brought by senators. We keep in mind the ambition of the bill, which is to democratize sport in France. So, when beautiful ideas have been proposed, concerted, in-depth, we propose, of course, to keep them. I am thinking of sports-health homes, the development of adapted physical activity or certain provisions of corporate sport or school sport. We regret all the more that we have not reached an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee. The new reading in committee has allowed the removal of devices which may have value but are devoid of legal meaning, are subject to regulatory power, are of pure display or are contrary to the spirit of the bill. We shall return to parity and the application of the principle of secularism in sport, given the number of amendments tabled today. We were keen to restore the original title of the text because democratizing sport means democratizing access to sport practice and the governance of the sports world; It also consolidates the economic model, so that its actors are able to spread and share sport for all. The primary objective of this bill is to democratize access to sport, whether spontaneous, academic, associative or prescribed for health reasons. As early as Article 1, we had devoted access to physical and sporting activities for persons accommodated or cared for in social or medico-social institutions. In a public session, we extended the prescription of sports activities to patients with chronic diseases. We had also modernized article L. 100-1 of the Sport Code, which defines the objectives of sport policy. This met the aspirations of several groups. We have taken into account the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), intergenerational solidarity, health, or equal access to sport, without discrimination. The commission restored the arrangement by retaining several Senate additions. We will conclude the drafting of this founding article during our debates by recalling the respect for the republican principles introduced by the law of 24 August 2021. With Article 2, we improve access to school sports facilities for outside users, by allowing facilities for the creation or renovation of a school, college or high school, as well as access to sports facilities under the jurisdiction of the State. Creating access is one thing, making them known is more important. That is why we are improving their census by the state and the knowledge communities have of it. Article 3 creates local sports plans, a partnership approach that brings together a number of actors around a goal: to offer all audiences a diverse sporting path throughout life. From the first reading, the Government introduced the possibility of creating educational alliances within the framework of these plans. We have reinstated it and I will propose to you that the creation of sports associations in primary school is also a possibility. We went back to the relationship between local sports plans and the territorial strategic projects of the Regional Sport Conferences (RCSs), following a logic of mutual consideration. Article 4 makes it possible to strengthen the missions of these conferences. The original text provided for this by integrating health sport and basic sports knowledge; We have retained the addition of social and professional integration through sport or sustainable development. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Our contributions show that sport can be structuring for territories and all public policies that contribute more widely to the fight against inequalities, stereotypes and discrimination. Sports values are irritating this ambitious text, which, moreover, is intended to transmit it to the youngest, sportsmen of tomorrow. That is the title of which I am the rapporteur. The other two rapporteurs, with whom I was pleased to work for more than a year, will show you all the other advantages of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u176	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, spoke on Title II.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u177	I am very pleased that we are discussing, again, this bill to democratize sport in France, a text that has come a long way since its first inspirations in 2018, and since it was tabled on January 26, 2021. I am all the more pleased that Title II for which I have responsibility includes essential and even revolutionary measures to boost the governance of federations. I will quickly recall the outline of the text that we voted in the House. Article 5 requires full parity at the head of federations, both at national and regional level. Article 6 establishes the direct universal suffrage of sports associations to elect the governing bodies of federations: the presidents of clubs will now be able to directly elect their president of federation. I would like to recall that it was Emmanuel Macron's commitment in 2017 – another commitment. Article 7 limits to three the number of mandates exercised at the head of a federation. Finally, Article 8 extends the reporting obligations to the High Authority for the Transparency of Public Life (HATVP) to a large number of sports leaders. To sum up, the aim was to open up federations to the invigorating air of renewal and to strengthen the democratic debate there. The Senate took this view regarding good repute, by improving the applicability of Article 8 for HATVP, and concerning direct suffrage in federations, taking into account, in particular, federations with a high proportion of non-associative bodies. On the other hand, our positions have diverged on parity and on the number of authorised mandates. While deeply regretting it, I take note of this divergence. As far as parity is concerned, I have defended in committee a simple position: the introduction of full parity in national bodies by 2024 and, at regional level, by 2028. This leaves ample time for federations to mobilize a pool of leaders at the regional level, and to set a clear line, without deviating from the goal of parity in all disciplines. As Marie-George Buffet recalled a few days ago, we must not negotiate on parity, a major societal and democratic advance. This vision was supported by all the groups of the presidential majority, but also by the other groups – Socialist and related, La France insoumise, Left Democratic and Republican – with the exception of the group Les Républicains.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u178	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u179	At my request, our beautiful Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education has re-established the Assembly's text on the limitation of the number of terms of office, i.e. up to three terms, a position supported by all the groups with the exception of Members of the Republican Group. However, I am not opposed to the candidates whose third term is pending at the time of the promulgation of the text applying for a final term of office. The text adopted by the Assembly also included provisions on sport overseas, which were intended to allow ultramarine athletes to participate in regional competitions and thus to promote their progress in their geographical areas – an idea of the Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats. The committee has re-established the text voted on at first reading and I welcome it. I will defend a final arrangement to ensure that the text will not be emptied of its substance by general prohibitions imposed by the national federations. In the end, Title II makes progress on a wide range of topics: renewal and parity at the head of federations, improvement of their governance, fight against discrimination and violence in sport. These advances are rooted both in the original bill and in the contributions of the parliamentary shuttle. They are also part of an ambitious political agenda and a historic budget for sports associations. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] We can be proud of this parliamentary work that we now have to complete, as it brings the voice of millions of volunteers and will contribute in its own way to the immaterial legacy of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u180	Mr Cédric Roussel, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, spoke on Title III.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u181	On 19 March 2021, a year ago, we voted almost unanimously, at first reading, for an important text in favour of sport. At the end of this first reading, we proposed significant progress on the sport economic model, the subject of Title III, for which I have the responsibility as rapporteur. I will not elaborate on all the provisions but will come back to some developments. I think, first of all, of the advances in ethics, through the strengthening of the fight against the manipulation of sports competitions. Unfortunately, the scourge of rigging has been experiencing new prosperity in recent years, thanks to the development of illegal betting sites and the play of extraterritoriality. It was therefore essential to equip ourselves with new tools to combat this evil: this is done with the platform to combat the manipulation of sports competitions, adopted in accordance with the Senate. Then I am thinking of sports piracy, another scourge that hinders the financing of sport. With Article 10, we proposed to establish a new judicial procedure for blocking pirate sites on the basis of a single "dynamic" order to de-reference and block sites without going back to the judge. Reprised in the law on the regulation and protection of access to cultural works in the digital age, defended by Minister Roselyne Bachelot, in a spirit of convergence of the struggles between culture and sport, this system is now operational, a first ordinance, whose effects were praised by the rightholders such as beIN Sports and Canal +, having been pronounced a few days ago. The text adopted at first reading opened the economic model of sport to new legal forms. Let us note the creation of the cooperative society of collective interest, the famous SCIC, a new status that clubs will now be able to choose to develop their economic model by strengthening, with all the actors, their local anchor. The Senate voted in favour of the rule. It is then the commercial company, introduced by one of my amendments, that now makes consensus on the basis of a broad framework. It should allow professional football clubs and, more broadly, the entire sports ecosystem, hard tested by the combination of health crises and the Mediapro affair, to regain room for manoeuvre to support the commercialization of television rights. This marketing company must also be able to open its capital to external investors. On this last point, the Senate wanted to provide new guarantees. At the first reading in the House, I had shown that the text presented all possible guarantees and had used the term "belt and straps". We are therefore adding here, together with senators, a new pair of straps to the device, which, if it satisfies everyone by being a bit talkative, is nonetheless effective. However, I believe that a final change is necessary to make this mechanism fully operational. That is why I have tabled an amendment to open the commercial company to all professional leagues, and not just to those who have transferred broadcasting rights to sports companies. The aim is not to reserve the new system to the football league alone, but to reduce the guarantees requested. Faster, higher, stronger: Pierre de Coubertin's motto sums up the spirit of our work, and it also sums up the spirit with which the Senate has worked, since it has added fifty-eight articles to the bill, nine of which are in Title III. I'll come back to two additions. The Senate took up one of the proposals of my report from the fact-finding mission on the rights of audiovisual broadcasting of sports events, chaired by Régis Juanico. This is the possibility of extending the duration of the first professional contract from three to five years for young players in training. The second addition concerns supportism. It has been a topical issue since the start of the football season last August, and I am pleased that the Senate has been able to handle it. Several relevant amendments have been adopted in committee, creating articles aimed at regulating stage trade bans, completing the dossier of stage bans and obtaining from the Ministry of the Interior the publication of an annual report on custodial measures. I also support the creation of a flat-rate fine to combat the introduction of weapons and fireworks in stadiums. It is indeed essential to pursue a policy of firmness against violence in the stadiums, and to preserve the quality of the sporting spectacle. This struggle, however, involves achieving a balance so as not to suppress all behaviour, including the festive uses of fumigants. As we all know, the use of fumigants is in the DNA of supportism. It makes fans and even TVs happy, who do not take away from showing them when they are used responsibly. That is why I call for a new balance, by going further in the authorisation of fumigants on an experimental basis while more seriously suppressing unauthorized uses. I am a supporter of the Olympique gymnaste club (OGC) in Nice, to whom I wish, personally, good luck for tonight's game, and I would not like to put in the same basket those who participate in the animation and those who confuse weapon and fireworks. I will be vigilant on this point. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM group]] We can all be satisfied with the text and developments I have mentioned. In any case, Title III addresses several economic problems in professional and amateur sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u182	I have received a motion from Mr Damien Abad and members of the Republicans' Group to reject in advance pursuant to Rule 91(5) of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u183	[[Murmures on the panels of commissions]] This motion for rejection is more about what this text does not contain than the elements contained therein and which will be discussed on behalf of the Republican Group, Maxime Minot. Madam Secretary of State, I solemnly draw your attention to the consequences of the vote on this motion of rejection, while people wearing hijab and wishing that it would become the rule in sport are demonstrating before our House. The Joint Joint Committee failed because the Government and the majority you embody refused the courageous measure adopted by the Senate, following its majority, aimed at making sport a safe sanctuary from the rise of Islamist communitarianism. Indeed, the Senate had introduced a provision to prohibit the wearing of the Islamic veil in order to participate in sporting events and competitions. In republicans of all walks of life, we have a collective duty to include this courageous measure in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u184	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u185	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group. – Applause on the benches of the LR group]] This is surely the last opportunity for this majority to leave a trace, a tiny trace of your will to fight against Islamism. Otherwise, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium will end with a terrible aftertaste of submission to Islamism. I know it bothers you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u186	The text is about sport!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, only the speaker has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u188	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] [[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Yes, it's a text on sport, but that's not the point. The essential thing is that you refuse to register! If you do not adopt this measure, Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium will end on this spot of shame! [[Same movements]] We can only see the failure of the "at the same time" in the fight against Islamism. The list of your small accommodations and your big cowardices is long, too long. You have refused the Senate's proposed constitutional law to state that no religious rule can be higher than the laws of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u189	It's already in the Constitution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u190	You refused to ban the wearing of the veil to girls and school assistants. You refused to ban burkini on the beaches and in the pools. You refused to ban sailing at university or for users of public services. And today, you refuse to ban sailing for sporting events and competitions. This text, however, offered you the opportunity to remove ambiguities that you cannot ignore. As you know, there is a serious legal blur on the wearing of religious signs during sports competitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u191	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u192	Some federations prohibit them, others allow them. It is necessary that the law now clearly define the rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u193	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u194	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] That was the will of the Republican senators; you have refused this measure. You have an opportunity tonight to get back together, otherwise you will fall into a form of indignity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u195	Get yourself together, Mr. Ciotti!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u196	Take your actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u197	The wearing of the Islamic veil must be explicitly prohibited in sports competitions. The world of sport must avoid this ideology of totalitarianism. We are all aware of the situation, which is worrying: 74 per cent of young Muslims between the ages of 15 and 24 say that their religious beliefs are above the values of the Republic; 57% of young Muslims consider Shariah to be more important than the law of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u198	You're mixing everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u199	In the face of these cowardices, let us not forget that in the fall of 2020, a teacher was beheaded in our country because he taught the Enlightenment and freedom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u200	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u201	We're talking about sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u202	Let us not forget that young Mila is threatened with death for standing up against Islamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u203	We're talking about sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u204	Let us not forget that the journalist Ophelia Meunier and Amine Elbahi have been the targets of death threats since the broadcast of a report on radical Islam in Roubaix, a city whose first magistrate is ardently defended by Mr Darmanin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u205	We're talking about sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u206	Let's talk about sport!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u207	Please, let the speaker speak!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u208	Faced with these abuses, in the face of these threats, the Republic has a duty to put an end to Islamist demands aimed at weakening our republican model, changing France, transforming our ways of life, enslaving women.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u209	Zemmour, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u210	Charles Péguy said, "You always have to say what you see. Especially you always have to, which is more difficult, see what you see. " But you refuse to see the truth. Islamism is spreading in prayer rooms, mosques, of course, but also in our neighbourhoods, homes, clubs and sports federations. Everywhere Islamism advances and seeks to impose its rules in disregard of those of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u211	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Zemmour, get out of this body!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u212	Islamism rejects gender equality; Mr. Rebeyrotte, is that what you're advocating for yourself?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u213	Mr Rebeyrotte, let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u214	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] Your remarks mark an complicity with this ideology. Islamism refuses apostasy, denies women's freedom, refuses secularism, refuses the Republic and hates it; He hates homosexuals, atheists, Christians, Jews! Let us finally open our eyes: the Islamists conquered souls and territories. The Republic is provoked and the veil is the standard of this totalitarian project, the fanion of this advance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u215	What does it have to do with the text?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u216	In 1989, in the case of the middle school girls of Creil, the rector of the great mosque in Paris explained why the girls of sixth grade had to be veiled: "The Qur'an is clear: he recommends that the woman cover herself to avoid any form of seduction. The veil has this function: to cover what can be attractive in it. It is therefore a question of preventing seduction, of preventing women's freedom, of making them a mere object, an object of desire that should be hidden. Well, no, ladies and gentlemen, even if it bothers you, as your reactions show, the veil is not serene, as Jack Lang claimed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u217	The text is about sport! We want to talk about sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u218	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] It's not a fashion accessory; It is a prison for women, an ideological marker that locks up, an instrument of submission and negation of the individual.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u219	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u220	The fight against the wearing of the veil is a fight for equality and against submission. To refuse to wear the veil is to advocate thousands of young Muslim women who do not want to be abandoned and enslaved by the tyranny of a religious minority expressing violence. When I hear some Members tell us that, in an ideal world, choice is free...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u221	You confuse Islam with Islam!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u222	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] But open your eyes! Stop with naivety, with cowardice! There are entire quarters where there have never been so many veils, where a young woman of Muslim origin cannot go home freely in the evening if she is not veiled. Whole neighborhoods are cut to pieces regulated by Islamists. To those who are tempted by the sirens of an "open secularism", I say: break with the spirit of Munich that prepares submission and dishonor, break with the weakness widely maintained by the Government for five years! This text cannot ignore this objective, for a France that is Islamizing is the Republic that is effaced.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u223	The Republic of Charles Martel?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u224	You once again demonstrate your indifference to these advances. Unfortunately, the French are witnessing this; They'll be judges tomorrow. This text offered you a final opportunity to translate the martial speeches of the President of the Republic into action. The refusal to retain a concrete measure introduced by the Senate to combat Islamism in the sport community requires the adoption of this motion, without further consideration of this text. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Hues on the benches of the LaREM group]] The story is ours. Only one choice is available to you: honor or submission.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u225	Mr. Ciotti is radicalizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u226	All right, have we calmed down? The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u227	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Ciotti, I confess that I did not expect to come to this Chamber to attend a political forum. I'm all the more surprised that I don't really know who you represent, honourable Member. Nevertheless, I am very happy to see that you are finally interested in sport! Unfortunately, your motion merely confirms your group's political position of failing a text for a provision that has never been included in it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u228	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u229	Sophism!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u230	Let's admit it's a strange process. Given your commitment to sport, Mr. Ciotti, you are aware that this text is the result of more than three years of consultations conducted by parliamentarians and the ministry, in consultation with the sports movement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u231	What if it leads to bad measurements?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u232	On the other hand, you decide to sweep away all of this constructive work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u233	Constructive for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u234	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Our fellow citizens will be grateful. In the motion of rejection, you refer only to the subject of the wearing of religious signs, which is not in the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u235	Because of your cowardice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u236	You subtly or deliberately omit to mention all the major advances that this text brings for French sport. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] By this motion, you say no. So you say no to parity in sports bodies, you say no to limiting the number of mandates; you say no to the development of healthy sport in France; you say no to strengthening the links between school and sport, you say no to creating a more robust economy for professional sport. Mr. Member, don't run away from your responsibilities! By your motion, you say no to all of this; you must assume it in front of the sports movement and in front of the French. Finally, the issue of neutrality in sport and, more generally, in the public sphere was very widely addressed in 2021 during parliamentary work on the law to uphold the principles of the Republic. Amendments identical to those to be presented on this text have already been discussed. The Government has a very clear position on the matter. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Protests on the benches of the LR group]] We are fighting against radicalisation in sport more actively than has ever been done before. During the debates, we will once again detail the forms that our fight against radicalization takes daily, on the ground, alongside clubs and associations. The Government prefers action over incantations. I will explain in depth the details of our action,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u237	Stop giving lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u238	... particularly with sports associations: their responsibility is reinforced by the seven measures which now make up the Republican contract of engagement, the signature of which, I would remind you, requires the granting of any public aid, including the simple provision of public premises. [[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, this debate must take place in the Republican Group. I assure you, French sport deserves it. Two years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris, let's be worthy, let's live up to this event! Let us participate in the democratization of sport in France. And keep your stand for next Sunday!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u239	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u240	Mr Ciotti, you ask us to keep our eyes open: they are! Our eyes are also focused on the title of this bill, which aims to democratize sport in France and not anything else. You are contemplating a provision, which, as the Secretary of State said, was not included in the original bill. This can happen – it is sometimes interesting: it is the fruit of parliamentary work. However, by this motion of rejection, you are only trying to reverse the progress made by the National Assembly and the Senate in order to democratize sport in our country. Here we seek to create more links between sport and health, to strengthen access to school sports facilities and to develop the link between sport and education, to introduce a partnership approach at the territorial level, to strengthen parity, or to renew and make the governing bodies more transparent. All these advances, your sole goal is to reject them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In a more embarrassing way, you strongly stress the need to leave what you call "a tiny trace of [our] will to fight against Islamism." However, the law of 24 August 2021 confirming respect for the principles of the Republic does not seem to me to constitute a tiny trace; On the contrary. It called for a great deal of investment and a great deal of dialogue on these benches: it should be recalled. This law is based on the deep respect for the law of 1905 concerning the separation of churches and the state, which you seem to have forgotten some elements of. You forget that proselytism is already prohibited – in Article 31 – and you confuse neutrality and secularism. [["Yes! » on several benches of the LR group]] In essence, you are inviting us to reject this bill solely for a sailing story. Your comments have only been on this point, whereas this is not the subject of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u241	You think it's anecdotal?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u242	No, it's nothing anecdotal, but we have put in place the necessary measures to combat Islamism: that's what upsets you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u243	What a naivety!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u244	Angelism!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u245	Please! Mr Herbillon, only the rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u246	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I repeat, it is not anecdotal, but you remain obsessed with this issue, which is not on the agenda of our Assembly, since this text deals with the democratization of sport in France. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, I urge you not to vote on this motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u247	On the motion for a preliminary rejection, the Republicans have a request for a public vote before me. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mr Régis Juanico.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u248	Today I discover the sudden appetence of our colleague Eric Ciotti for sports matters. As he himself acknowledged, this was probably the last opportunity for him, before the end of the legislature, to talk about sport in the Chamber. Well, that's a mistake! The content of this motion for prior rejection distorts and completely diverts the purpose of this text aimed at democratising sport. I would like to recall that sport brings together...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u249	It's becoming constant in the last few days, the gathering between the left and On the move!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u250	... and that it carries values of integration, emancipation, social brewing, secular and republican fraternity, and not hatred, division or stigmatization. With your obsession to introduce an article on the prohibition of the wearing of ostensible religious signs at sporting events and competitions, you are instrumental in examining the bill for political purposes, transforming it into a political forum on the sole issue of the veil in sport. This political operation is all the more irresponsible as it pursues another less avoable objective: to make a diversion to conceal the important setbacks of the Senate majority, with which you are associated, on issues of parity and limitation of the cumulation of the mandates of the sports leaders. The position of the Socialist and related group on this subject is clear: the article on the prohibition of religious signs in sport has nothing to do in this bill or in any text. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] According to WHO – World Health Organization – sedentaryness is currently the world's leading preventable mortality factor. And according to the national barometer of sports practices of 2020, sport practice is slightly declining in France, with women showing stagnation between 2018 and 2020. The challenge is not to limit the practice of physical activity, but to make it accessible to all. We will therefore vote against the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u251	The communal vote is on!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u252	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u253	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] The Group of the European People's Party will obviously not vote in favour of this motion to reject it beforehand. I would like to remind Mr Ciotti that this majority is fighting against Islamism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u254	With words!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u255	... when we pronounce the dissolution of dangerous associations that want to put their own laws above those of the Republic, or when we dismantle terrorist channels. Mr Ciotti, you should support the action of the majority and the Government in this area. I would also like to say that this bill contains real advances for sport, expected by athletes and federations. It would be time for us to talk about it. But since you want to do politics, Mr. Ciotti, I'll answer you. Five years ago, around Édouard Philippe, we left The Republicans and when I hear your speeches, I can tell you that we are very happy to have done so!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u256	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u257	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] And to hear your speech today, I believe that Mr Woerth and Mrs Vautrin are right to leave your party in their turn. I do not know if you would like to become the Prime Minister of Mrs Pecresse, but you could very well hold this position for Mr Zemmour. Even Mrs. Le Pen wouldn't want your political hardness!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u258	And this isn't politics?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u259	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u260	Mr Ciotti, I am speaking to you, because I hope that the people around you, on your benches, do not share your views – I very much hope so. Once again, you took advantage of a speech to stigmatize part of the French population.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u261	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u262	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] You don't say a word about sport, just hatred, spilled into the country of human rights. This dishonors you, Mr. Ciotti! Sport conveys values of inclusion, equality, respect, which are far removed from your hate speech. You advocate exclusion and rejection: your speech is anti-republican!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u263	The Unsubs with On!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u264	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] I am against this text, but I will not vote for your motion to reject it beforehand, because I love my country, because I love the Republic, because I love France. Freedom, equality, fraternity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u265	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Republican Group, I invite you first to look at the action of the sports movement. The Olympic Charter denies any right to political or religious propaganda in sports stadiums and facilities. Look at how our federations, of all disciplines, refuse religious signs. These are facts. Also, let us trust our volunteers, our mentors, our technical cadres, the leaders and leaders of the federations, so that secularism and neutrality are at the heart of sport practice. It would be much more interesting, through the examination of the amendments, to have even more resources and to ensure that no girl is hindered in access to sports practice, that they are accompanied everywhere to reach the highest level. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem, SOC and Agir ens groups. – Mr Michel Larive also applauds]] While Paris will host the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024, we should also work to ensure that all delegations are mixed, and here I am thinking of our Afghan sisters. That is the approach we should take, rather than holding hate speech, particularly politicians.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u267	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u268	We start our discussions with a motion of rejection: it's amazing! We begin our debates with the rejection of the debate. We rarely legislate on sport, but that is what we are trying to do with this text, and this great meeting, you want to deprive the French of it, for considerations that have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u269	Because you never did?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u270	As we would have liked, a few days before the end of the parliamentary session, to hear from you about the preparations for the Olympic Games. As we would have liked to have relied on you to develop healthy sport – a subject on which you have not been involved. As we would have liked to be unanimous in delivering a message of national unity to these millions of French people, practitioners, mentors, volunteers and federal officials, who are waiting for our voice and are impatient with our vote. But of all this, you have no cure for it! Your obsession is elsewhere: you have an eye on the faces of Muslim women and the other on the electoral calendar – the amendments you have tabled on this text testify to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u271	It's because we're tired of making minutes of silence!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u272	It is the very nature of obsession: you are diverting the debates on another subject, which we have already debated and on which we have been much more courageous and enterprising than you, in order to guarantee respect for our republican principles. We will not be hostages to this obsession. We will not be drawn into this contempt for the entire sports movement. We will not enter the sidereal void of your vision of sport and our society. We will not confuse the constitutional principle of secularism, to which everyone is attached, with the duty of neutrality. We will carry a message of hope when you advocate exclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u273	Renunciation! Open your eyes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u274	We'll do a serious job when you do the dodge. We will live up to our responsibilities when you prefer posture. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, the La République en marche group will strongly oppose this motion of rejection.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u275	You're great!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u276	Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u277	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Jacques Chirac and the then presidential and parliamentary majority in 2004 had the courage to ban the wearing of ostensible religious signs at school.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u278	Don't mention Chirac!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u279	[[Same movements]] Nicolas Sarkozy and the presidential and parliamentary majority of the time had the courage to ban the wearing of the complete veil, which completely hides the faces and bodies of women, in public space. History will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that you have not had the courage to prohibit the wearing of any ostensible religious sign in sports competitions. As far as we are concerned, we have this courage and want to carry this message of emancipation through sport and equality between women and men. I repeat, sport is a place of emancipation and religion has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u280	Mr. Ciotti only spoke of Islam!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u281	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Open your eyes, ladies and gentlemen, and avoid denial of reality! The penetration of certain sports federations, associations and clubs by official and Islamist movements, including Frerists, is a reality. These are documented facts that you cannot deny. You must open your eyes and have the courage to tell all young women and girls who want to live free in France, without being subjected or enslaved, that the Republic will be at their side. Let's say no to the veil that enslaves the women and girls of France!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u282	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u283	As was said during the presentation of the text, the work carried out by the Assembly and the Senate at first reading has greatly enriched the bill. As for the debates that we had last week in committee, in a new reading, they were an opportunity to re-establish the provisions that we felt were essential, after they were removed by the Senate, while retaining many other elements introduced by senators. The exchanges that took place in the Joint Joint Committee show that our two visions were far from irreconcilable, with the exception of a measure, defended by the Republican Group, aimed at prohibiting sportsmen from wearing ostensible religious signs in sporting competitions. In my view, and I know that this position is shared by many colleagues on all sides, this provision has absolutely no place in the text, the main objective of which is to encourage sports practice by the greatest number of people. Of course, neutrality is a fundamental principle guaranteeing respect for secularism in our country, but it is exercised within a very specific framework, defined by our legislation, which is itself reinforced by the enactment of the law of 24 August 2021 which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. In the run-up to the presidential and legislative elections, the timetable is narrowing, and I can only see in the introduction of Article 1d C a political game aimed at relaunching debates which, as we know, divide and are therefore instrumentalised in the media. This motion of prior rejection is fully part of this dynamic of an exacerbated political game when it has no legitimacy if we consider that we all share here – I do not think I am mistaken in saying it – the ambition of this text. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Strengthening sport practice is essential to ensure the well-being of our society. That is why the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will vote against this motion to reject and in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u284	Well done, supples!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u285	I put to the vote the motion to reject it beforehand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u286	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 129 Number of votes cast 129 Absolute majority 65 For adoption 25 Against 104
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u287	In the general debate, Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u288	The failure of the CMP's discussions on the bill to democratize sport has a practical consequence: the text can only be finally adopted by our assembly in the last week of this Parliament's session, in fifteen days' time. A vote in extremis, in the final seconds of the legislature, a bit like a catch-up session for sport, just two and a half years from the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris. This is quite a performance for a text that was examined in an accelerated procedure and adopted almost unanimously at first reading here on 19 March 2021 and which, as part of the parliamentary shuttle, was only placed on the Senate agenda at the beginning of January 2022, following an incomprehensible race of slowness. This late examination in the middle of the presidential campaign had another unfortunate consequence: the transformation for political purposes, by the Republicans group, the majority in the Senate, and by its counterpart in the Assembly, of a text aimed at developing sports practice into a forum on the sole issue of sailing in sport. Fortunately, the new reading in committee last week allowed us to return to the balance of the bill adopted at first reading in the National Assembly. Some enrichments of the text by the Senate have been preserved, such as the broadening of the possibilities of prescribing physical activities adapted to chronically ill or with risk factors, the development of physical activities in social and medical-social institutions or the definition in the law of sports-health homes, all of which are recommended in our report on sedentarity, written with Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe in July 2021. The Socialist and Related Group is also in favour of the adoption of the governmental amendment to Article 1e r bis extending the possibility of prescribing physical activities adapted to persons who lose their autonomy. We also support the possibility of extending the first contract for young professional athletes from three to five years, as we advocated in December 2021, with Cédric Roussel, in our report on the audiovisual rights of sport. Despite the limited ambitions of the text as a whole, the Socialist and related group played, from the beginning, the game of enriching the bill, considering that sport should not be held hostage to political contests. For example, we have adopted an article on the census of sports facilities in schools, which does not currently exist. Together with others, we have included a provision for parity in the office of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee (CNOSF) – and we hope to do so earlier in the French Paralympic and Sports Committee (CPSF). We have also had amendments adopted to regulate the establishment of a commercial company by professional leagues or to allow sports clubs set up as a cooperative society of collective interest to receive subsidies from the National Sports Agency (ANS) – on this last point, we could have gone further by also allowing sports associations to form as SCICs. In the Senate, progress has been made, particularly at the initiative of our colleague Jean-Jacques Lozach, such as the inclusion, in the declarations of extra-financial performance of large companies, of actions to promote physical and sporting activities, as well as the relaxation and simplification for adults of the certificate of absence of contraindications to sports practice. On the other hand, some progress achieved by the socialist and environmental groups of the Senate was removed during the new reading in committee, such as the integration of the development of physical and sporting activity for employees in the field of annual negotiations on occupational equality and the quality of life at work, or the obligation for anyone who builds an industrial or tertiary building in a workplace to provide it with showers and changing rooms. We re-submit in open session the two amendments to include these provisions because the legislation does not contain provisions that promote physical and sporting activity in a professional setting. We also regret that our amendments aimed at better recognizing the coordination and evaluation missions of teachers in adapted physical activity, which they have been carrying out for forty years in our territories, have been declared inadmissible; The law will not recognize these professionals while massagers-kinesistherapists are given the opportunity to renew adapted physical activity requirements. Finally, we cannot vote on Article 3a B as it does not explicitly mention the obligation to establish a sports association in first-degree schools, as is the case for second-degree schools. The possibility contained in the text of creating territorial educational alliances with vague outlines, in the framework of cultural, sports, artistic and citizen projects, seems to us to dilute the objective of developing physical and sporting activities in schools and to weaken existing sports associations within the Sports Union of Primary Education (USEP), although they should be strengthened.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u289	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u290	[[Michèle Victory and Marie-George Buffet applaud]] In the absence of the adoption of some of these amendments, the Socialist and Related Group, while noting some substantial progress in the text, will not vote in favour of it and will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u291	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u292	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the minister responsible for sports, Roxana Maracinanu, who we miss because she has invested a great deal in this text. After the failure of the CMP, we are again considering this long-awaited bill in public at a turning point for the sports world. We take a very positive view of this text, which is a real step forward for the sports movement and for the sport nation that we call for. Indeed, French sport is in many ways at a turning point. At the structural level, first of all, it has been in full change since the creation of the ANS in 2019 and the new territorial organisation of sport throughout France. At the societal level, then, French sport is facing a crisis of trust: I am talking about the violence that we must protect practitioners to ensure that sport remains, in accordance with its values, a place of life learning, emancipation and self-building. In economic terms, the players in the sports world are still suffering the effects of the crisis. Beyond this difficult observation, we must not lose sight of the two objectives underlying our sport project: the development of sport for all, and the success of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024. Within two years of this major deadline for our country, a law on sport is needed in order to respond to the various issues. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the progress made by this bill, which contains measures to increase sport practice, modernise the governance of federations and develop a more virtuous sport model. During the first reading of the text in the Assembly, we had worked well to complete the text on important points: the access of all to sport with the development of independent entrances for sports facilities in new colleges and public schools; the emphasis on health with the extension of the activity prescription to persons with chronic risks or diseases and the designation of sport focal points in social and medical-social institutions; the safety of practitioners with the extension of the control of the criminal record of all persons involved with minors; the evolution of the economic model with the possibility for professional leagues to set up commercial companies for the management of audiovisual rights. At the initiative of our group, we had given territorial projects a training mission to combat all forms of discrimination in sport and asked for a report on the impact of the current crisis on sponsorship expenditure. These provisions were kept during the shuttle: I am delighted! Similarly, we are pleased that the commission has maintained several provisions introduced in the Senate such as the inclusion in the law of sports-health homes or the administrative blocking of illegal online betting sites. Finally, we welcome the continuation of Article 1 ter E, which opens up the possibility of including cultural and sporting issues in the same way as societal and environmental issues in the raison d'être of companies: this is a provision that we defended at first reading in the National Assembly; I had committed myself to the subject. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is rich. The duty of the Republic is always to seek the right balance, which demands the courage of the nuance and the refusal to yield to the radicalization of minds. Thanks to the law, we will strengthen respect for the principles of our Republic, a task that we have accomplished during the quinquennium: the accreditation of sports federations is now conditional on the signing of a Republican contract of engagement in which they clearly promise to respect republican principles, particularly secularism. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We are talking here about democratizing sport: do not try to restrict it, do not reduce this text to a controversial measure that does not belong to it! Because sport is a formidable vector of social cohesion and a formidable engine of individual emancipation, because the values of respect, solidarity, perseverance and collective spirit that sport is driving are the ones that our country needs most, because France, our beautiful nation, will very soon be the sporting showcase of the world on great occasions, we must carry a great ambition for sport. Let us take advantage of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024 and the Rugby World Cup of 2023 to bring this ambition to life, and commit ourselves to this text by voting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u293	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u294	I am pleased that we are meeting today to talk about the development of sport in France, a subject which is too often discussed in this House. The many sports associations in our country will have suffered deeply from the health crisis; The same is true of ambition in sports policy when a great law was promised to us. I must acknowledge that our work, like that of our colleagues in this chamber, has greatly enriched the text with rapporteurs who have been able to take the right ideas. I would therefore like to commend their work – your work – because today we have a more comprehensive text that addresses many issues such as the democratization and accessibility of sport practice. It is on these aspects that we need to focus on. First, part of the bill aims to compensate for the lack of sports infrastructure by opening up school facilities. In this connection, if the announcement of an investment of EUR 200 million for the construction of equipment over the period 2022-2024, which I welcome, discusses the maps, it can be regretted that it intervenes so late in the quinquennium. Indeed, it is a request that I, together with my group, have been making for several years. Moreover, while the priority areas of city policy must be the first to benefit from these new facilities, I hope that rural areas will not be forgotten, since the lack of infrastructure is often the first obstacle to sport. Secondly, the introduction of the sports pass has enabled some families to re-register their children in different sports practices after the difficulties of the new year 2020. It cannot be ignored, however, that there have been some difficulties in the deployment of this system due to the lack of prior experimentation. We could also begin to consider supporting other audiences, including students who would not have access to sports equipment on their campuses. I hope that we can maximize the benefits of such a system. Thirdly, the issue of school sport is another major issue that I would have liked to have dealt with more in this text. A WHO study indicates that almost 80 per cent of adolescents do not do enough sport on a daily basis. This clearly shows that the issue of sport from an early age, especially at school, is central, whereas it is more secondary points that are sometimes addressed in the text. On the subject of territorial educational alliances, Madam rapporteur, I listened with great attention to you; There are still some questions. Finally, I am pleased that more attention will be paid to young people enrolled in a high-level course. The school must do its utmost to support the development of their careers without compromising their studies. Their success, the continuation of their careers and the resulting influence of French sport depend, among other things, on their support from an early age in schools. Beyond performance, it is also the benefits of sport for social integration or health that we must promote from an early age. Sport must, in the future, be seen not as mere leisure but as a genuine tool of public policy in the service of the well-being of our citizens. In this sense, I believe that the recognition of sport as an actor in a health prevention policy must finally succeed. It would be an important paradigm shift for health insurance to undertake upstream educational action to prevent the onset of certain diseases. It is for all these reasons that, I repeat, the question of equipment and its multiplication in the territory is of paramount importance. In conclusion, I would like to address the governance of federations quickly. Imposing parity in the various bodies of the federations means going in the direction of history. To change attitudes, we sometimes have to force things on different levels of society. The image of women in sport must change and, in order to accompany this change, the representation of sportsmen must increase. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The UDI-I Group will support this bill in the hope that it will soon call for further progress in sport in our beautiful country, France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u295	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u296	The sports movement deserves an ambitious text; this great law "sport and society" is in part only. Its late registration in the Senate has wasted us time, a waste of time that is in addition to the delays that have been accumulated since 2017. As I said, the sports movement deserves a debate that is commensurate with the issues that go through it. In any case, it should not be instrumentalized during the presidential campaign period. In this regard, I cannot but deplore the fact that the modest but expected progress of this text is slowed down by parasitic debates. I am thinking in particular of the ban on religious signs that can be used in sporting competitions. It is true that the spirit of sport is sharing, integration and emancipation. In any event, these controversies seem far removed from the immediate concerns of the sports movement. Should it be recalled that, with the health crisis, the number of licences has fallen and, consequently, tens of thousands of sports associations are threatened with disappearance? This is the emergency. The question of means therefore appears to be a priority in order to strengthen the practice of sport throughout the territory. Indeed, it is at the bedside of a very difficult sports movement that we must look at, and the answers proposed, for the time being below expectations and needs, must be up to date. With the approach of the Olympic Games in Paris 2024, we have the opportunity to build a heritage other than material: a legacy of the development of sports practice. Therefore, sport at school, in business, in the territories, and health sport are all elements that should be consolidated through ambitious accompanying policies. [[Smile]] The generalisation of the pass'sport has unfortunately not yet had the expected effects due to a number of malfunctions, but this is a first step. We need to improve this system. In the same way, the €200 million announced by the President of the Republic to finance 5000 sports equipment by 2024 arrive late and will necessarily be below the needs, which are large; Moreover, the conferences of the financiers, responsible for granting these projects, have not yet been set up. Above all, it is regrettable that an agreement could not be reached with senators, even though most of the provisions of the text are consensual. I am thinking, for example, of those strengthening the fight against sexual violence through better control of the mentors. The possibility introduced for associations to form a cooperative society of collective interest also delights us: the example of the Sporting Club of Bastia, dear to my heart, should be a model for many other sports structures – anyway, Sporting should be a model for everyone... In the Senate, interesting measures have been adopted and enrich the text: this is the case of the consecration of sports-health houses as well as provisions for high-level sport and professional referees. On the other hand, two setbacks were noted: one on parity objectives in federations, and one on governance and non-cumulation of mandates. I therefore welcome the re-establishment of the elements concerned in committee. Nevertheless, important issues remain insufficiently addressed in the text. The provisions relating to the retransmission of sports events added to the Senate have not been maintained; But we really need to think about better access to sport for all: today, Amazon Prime, a paid American platform, broadcasts 80% of football League 1 matches. On several occasions, our group has tried to move forward on school sport: the Commission has chosen to develop educational alliances, while we are proposing the establishment of a school association in all first-level schools. Finally, we regret that we have not been able to make progress on a number of important issues for our group, such as the reimbursement of prescription sports or the improvement of the participation of licensees and supporters in the governance of federations. [[Applause on the benches of the LT Group. – Rapporteur Pierre-Alain Raphan also applauds]] Colleagues, we are meeting today for a new reading of the bill and we are unable to agree on a consensus text. That is regrettable. At first reading, the Libertés et Territoires Group voted in favour of the text, while insisting on its important limitations. Even if we question a little about the progress it will make for the entire sports movement, we will confirm our positive vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u297	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u298	Here we are in session for a new reading of the bill to democratize sport in France. As was recalled in committee last week, important work had been done in this House from the first reading, with exchanges leading to a balanced and highly enriched text. Unfortunately, our desire for co-construction has not been transcribed into the Joint Joint Committee and it has failed because of one provision, which we regret. It is indeed a great pity that the work that has been going on for months to make real progress in the access to sport of our citizens is so little respected by some of our fellow Members because, in doing so, it is our citizens that they are having a negative impact. The acts speak for themselves, and the French are lucid on the political games that base the behaviors of some. Let us remember that the majority promotes the access and development of the practice of sport for each – I insist on the feminine – and each of us, since democratizing means bringing it to the reach of all. So, in committee last week, we fully restored the original spirit of the text. On parity, first of all, the Democratic Group is satisfied with the re-establishment of strict parity in federations at both national and regional levels. The position of women in the sports movement and its governing bodies, in particular, must become evident. The re-establishment of the article establishing parity within the office of the French National Olympic and Sports Committee is also to be welcomed. With regard to the cumulation of mandates, we have re-established a three-year limit on the presidency of federations in order to ensure the renewal of officials within federations. It is an important symbol to encourage transparency and renewal in the forums. We have also removed in committee the provision, introduced in the Senate, concerning the prohibition of the wearing of sail in sports competitions organized by the federations. Our group considers that this provision had no place in the text and that the law to uphold the principles of the Republic had already strengthened and strengthened the mechanisms for respect for secularism. Our group also welcomes the re-establishment of the possibility for leagues and ultramarine sports committees affiliated with a regional federation to organise sports competitions. In particular, we wanted this provision submitted by our colleague Justine Benin to be restored, in the interests of the competitiveness of ultramarine teams, geographically remote from hexagonal competitions. Our group participated in the removal of the obligation, introduced by the Senate, to install a shower during the construction of offices. Of course, we share the Senate's interest in the development of sports practice in the professional world, but the mechanism seemed incomplete and even counterproductive: on this subject, we must encourage and co-build with the actors of the professional world rather than be in coercion. I have recently been entrusted with a ministerial mission on this subject with my colleague Aude Amadou, and we are convinced that coercion is not the way to take for the sustainability of an offer of physical and sporting activities (APS) in company. We will shortly issue our recommendations to the Associate Minister for Sport. Several provisions of the Senate have been retained because they have enriched the text: the expansion of the prescription of health sport, introduced in the National Assembly by our group, which was enriched by the submission of a report to Parliament on the management of adapted physical activity (APA) and the deployment of sports-health homes, or the possibility of renewal of the APA by massagers-kinesistherapists. Our group welcomes these good developments which contribute to the improvement of public prevention policies. The creation of a high-level arbiter of professional sports recognizes the competence of these players and underlines their importance in the sporting world. The creation of the territorial educational alliance aimed at promoting the emergence of cultural, sports, artistic or citizen projects in order to encourage the involvement of students is also to be welcomed. We also welcome the introduction of an administrative blocking procedure for illegal gambling sites, instead of a judicial procedure. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Rapporteur Pierre-Alain Raphan also applauds]] The Group of the European People's Party hopes that today's debates will keep the same momentum by returning to the fundamentals of the text, voted unanimously in committee, while retaining the contributions that Parliament has made to it. Our common objective is, I know, to improve the daily lives of our citizens and to enable everyone to practice and access sport easier, more ethical and more serene. The Democrats will obviously vote in favour of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u299	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u300	First of all, I will have a thought for the Minister responsible for sports. In September 2017, France won the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. It was a great opportunity for our country to demand the mix of all the delegations that will participate in them and to revive a great sport policy, within the framework of the public service, in favour of the right to sport and a sport culture for all. The objective we share here is to remove all the barriers that prevent sport, when you are a teenager, when you live in an underprivileged area of infrastructure, when you have a disability, when you cannot afford it. All this should have been the priority for the last five years, with the Games as the engine. This is the real legacy to be built. Unfortunately, hopes were short-lived: with a decrease in the budget of the Ministry of Sports the first two years of the quinquennium...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u301	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u302	... and the supervision of the Ministry of Sports, which has many consequences for its agents, ambition has been set aside. Past hopes remain with us this bill. It contains some progress, which I welcome, but there are still many shortcomings. My first regret concerns the lack of measures regarding the EPS – physical and sports education – specifically the confusion about sport at school created by this text. Children need to do more and better physical and sports education – this is a subject in its own right – under the auspices of the teachers of EPS and of the well-trained teachers of schools. They don't just need to move 30 minutes a day, they also have to do sports as part of the EPS, four hours a week – it's not the same thing. I therefore object to the establishment of a separate physical activity from the EPS courses provided for in Article 3c(A). In fact, the EPS, USEP and UNSS – the National School Sport Union – are the key to creating among the youngest the habitus who will encourage the practice framed in a club. I also regret the absence of measures concerning sport in higher education, whereas at the time of the transition from high school to higher education, young people stop the practice of sport massively. We propose the normalisation of half a day for the latter, while regretting that the chronic underfunding of higher education makes such a measure complicated to apply for schools. As far as supportism is concerned, the account is not there either. At first reading, our colleague Sacha Houlié and I had drawn attention to this subject. I welcome the progress that has been made in committee: the stage trade bans will now have to be pronounced within three months of the commission of the facts; the use of fumigants in stadiums will be tested. However, rather than providing for a flat-rate fine in the event of misuse, it would have been necessary to work on the terms of the administrative stage ban, by strictly framing it and linking it with the judicial stage ban. It would also have been necessary to improve travel preparation, in order to avoid the still too systematic use of travel bans. Above all, it would have been necessary to increase the rights of supporters and their associations, to improve their place in clubs, to create a French model of supportism, thanks to the founding of houses of supporters dedicating their social role. Sport is popular or not sport; A club without supporters to make the stadium live is a soulless club. Violence must be firmly repressed and hatred cast out of our stadiums. It is precisely by dedicating the place of supporters through a close dialogue that we will achieve this. I welcome the re-establishment of gender equality provisions and the limitation of mandates. This perseverance reflects a laudable commitment by the Minister- Delegate, because in terms of parity, incentives are not enough – we see them in politics. Parity in the representative bodies of the federations will have to be accompanied by ambitious objectives for the development of the practice of women. I also support measures to improve access to sports equipment, which is ultimately the nerve of war in gaining access to practice. Similarly, local sports plans can offer good solutions, provided that actors, especially local communities, have the means to implement them and that volunteers are given the status they need to fulfil their commitment. The professional leagues will be able to set up commercial companies. Such a measure should have been part of a broader framework, in order to put an end to the speculative and financial madness surrounding sport, especially football. This flight forwards income, wages and commissions undermines all professional sports such as amateur sport. Similarly, the clear dissemination of sporting events is important. The best way to combat illegal streaming is to allow cheaper access to sports competitions broadcast on screens. It is also these images that motivate young people to register in a club. The list of events of major importance to be disseminated in plain form, fixed by decree, must therefore be expanded to include, in particular, women's sporting events. It is also necessary – but this is another debate – to stop bleeding in the public audiovisual sector. We await consideration of our amendments on these issues. As it stands, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left plans to abstain on the text, even if our position can evolve during the discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u303	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u304	I will also have a thought for Mrs.Maracenanu, who is listening to us. Here we go! We have the honour to take an additional step towards making our country a sport nation, as this was the route outlined by the President of the Republic when he set the goal of reaching an additional 3 million practitioners by the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games. This is the meaning of the work carried out for more than three years by our majority, with the reform of sports governance, the labelling of 436 sports-health houses, the sustainability of the pass'sport or the plan of 400 million euros to build or renovate the sports equipment park. These are unprecedented efforts, never seen before. This is the meaning of the initiatives, the parliamentary work and the various information reports from our benches. I am thinking today of the millions of volunteers, athletes – whatever their level and talent – and the leaders, educators and referees who together form the sport nation and look at us. I am thinking of this child who, by meeting Roger Bertozzi – peace to his soul, he left us a few weeks ago – understands that we can, like him, give time, heart and much of his life so that children, teenagers, can flourish and build themselves in sport. I am thinking of Marie-Hélène, who convince thousands of women to run against breast cancer, to Jean-Marie or to Christophe, who dedicate themselves body and soul to the practice of sport by disabled people or to adapted sport. I am thinking of my fellow marathoners, sands or others, who understand that humility, perseverance and self-exhaustion make it possible to cross all the finish lines. On such an important subject, while sedentaryness and its consequences on physical and mental health worsened during the health crisis, senators and members of the opposition group The Republicans have tried to take us to a new auction on the issue of secularism, and I regret that. This text is balanced. It was co-built with the cabinets and the French National Olympic and Sports Committee and enriched by the senators on the occasion of the parliamentary shuttle – I want to thank them, as well as the rapporteurs, for their tremendous work. The question of the wearing of the veil in sports events vitiates the purpose of this bill and the group The Republic on the move is opposed to the addition of any considerations which need not be included in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u305	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u306	The fight against separatism was carried out within the framework of the law confirming the respect of the principles of the Republic – the contract of engagement republican requires in particular sports associations and federations to commit themselves in writing to respect republican values and the principle of secularism. Above all, sport is a vector of emancipation. The spirit and values of Olympism, which will be in the spotlight in France in just over two years, must enter every home, regardless of the condition, origin, colour of skin or confession of its members. Sport is the place of encounters, of healthy competition, of otherness: it is anything but a bunker.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u307	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u308	It is therefore up to us to return to the fundamentals of this bill and its stated objective: to give priority to sport in France. In this connection, I would like to mention some major provisions which are in line with the promotion of the values of sport and the democratisation of its uses. First of all, in terms of governance, we are transposing the rules governing our democratic life to the sports community. Through this law, federal governing bodies, whether national or deconcentrated, will become equal partners; each affiliated association will participate in their election. Federal presidential mandates will be limited to three, unless otherwise justified by the local context. We can be proud of that. The text recognises the competence of the Regional Sport Conference in the field of health sport; it places the offer of physical and sporting activity among the missions of general interest of the institutions and of the social and medical-social services. Thanks to the shuttle, the prescription of adapted physical activity will be possible for persons of advanced age or loss of autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u309	This isn't very clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u310	We also act as close as possible to the territories and trust the actors on the ground to develop the local sports plans, drawn up in an interdisciplinary dialogue indispensable for their success. Similarly, we facilitate access to school sports equipment for associations and companies, with the aim of optimizing their use. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, with regard to the sport economic model, we are achieving considerable progress. Last October, during a trip to Seine-Saint-Denis, the President of the Republic set the objective of "putting sport at the heart of the nation for what it brings us, to allow us to be a stronger nation in the perspective of the Olympic Games, but also after, with an issue of inheritance". It is today and here that this legacy is being prepared.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u311	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u312	Facial secularity, secularity with variable geometry, secularity of renunciation – finally, everything except secularity, everything except political courage, everything except looking at reality in front of it: this is the conception of the secularity of this majority and of this government, when you refuse the prohibition of ostentatious religious signs at sporting events and sports competitions organized by the federations that the Senate rightly proposes. Yes, for you, secularism and equality between men and women are not fundamental principles of the Republic, but ideas at the service of your political interest. When they serve you, you brand them as a standard; When you don't have to make waves, you put them in a corner. As Éric Ciotti rightly said, and with courage, in defending a motion of prior rejection which had no other purpose than to place the majority before its contradictions. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Unlike you, we are thinking of all these women, all those young girls who, in our country, face daily pressures to make them give up being themselves, fighting for their rights. Contrary to you, we know that political Islam is gangrene us on all sides, including in sports practices, as the public services information report submitted in June 2019 by our colleagues Éric Diard and Éric Poulliat – the latter is indeed a member of the majority. Contrary to you, we are convinced that the legal blurry benefits not the defenders of freedom, but the communityists. Refusing to admit it is a political mistake, but even more so a moral mistake, which the minister responsible for sports will have to report, despite her absence tonight. This is a fundamental difference between us. For our part, we assume our responsibility and maintain a language of truth, which does not please anyone, in view of the task that falls to us. Thus, this measure is not incidental. On the contrary, it is essential in many respects and has its full place in this text, especially since apart from it, the mountain has given birth to a mouse. Indeed, while sport should be promoted at all levels, especially two years after the Paris Olympic Games, it must be noted that this bill is very timid and does not meet the ambitions displayed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u313	It's no use!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u314	If certain measures go in the right direction, it will certainly not remain in the annals as a founding text, far away, as too often, from what was promised. The Senate has endeavoured to allow the text to respond better to the issues, to give it the consistency it lacked, but you have retained only the accessory, removing the bulk of the contribution of our colleagues in the upper chamber. This intransigence shows that you are in no way seeking compromise and that, in the end, you have no room for manoeuvre in relation to what the Government dictates. For him, any reference to religious neutrality must be banned. Yet, it translates the Olympic Charter itself, which prohibits all kinds of "political, religious or racial demonstration or propaganda". You can count on us not to abdicate and submit amendments that redeem your cowardice. We will thus take up the proposal put forward by the Senate rapporteur, Michel Savin, in the Joint Joint Committee in order to define the conditions for applying the principle of secularism. In official sports competitions organised in France by the delegated federations, the wearing of religious signs by the sports licensees would be prohibited; However, this prohibition would not apply to athletes who are members of foreign sports federations, in order not to interfere with the rules of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) or international federations. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Your ability to take part in the fight to be waged will depend on our final vote. Prefer the general interest to postures. I sincerely hope that you will appreciate what is happening here. We are the national representation, don't forget!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u315	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u316	We are again considering the bill to democratize sport in France. From the first reading, I expressed my disappointment, so great was the gap between the promises of the title and the reality. The proposed provisions seemed to me to be far from the stakes and to be too few. After a passage to the Senate and last week in committee at the National Assembly, the text, despite its limited interest, contains 90 articles, instead of twelve. A particularly controversial provision has been added. The aim is to allow professional leagues to create a commercial society, which will inevitably increase the financialization of sport. I will have the opportunity to come back to this when the articles are examined. The new version of the text is emptied of the little progress it contained, after the adoption of amendments from the presidential majority. I am thinking in particular of the abolition of the system of installing changing rooms and showers in new buildings for professional use, in particular in order to encourage the use of bicycles for journeys between home and work. I am also thinking of the renunciation of expanding the free-access broadcast of women's and men's competitions. Despite its 90 articles, your text does not foresee anything to improve the retransmission of Handisport events, nothing to guarantee sportsmen equal remuneration to that of their male counterparts, nothing to limit the effects of money in sport, nothing to the representation of fans and their associations, nothing at last to simply allow the greatest number to follow on television the major sports competitions without taking up a multiplicity of offers – in short, nothing to democratize sport in France. Your majority's record in sports policy is catastrophic. The Ministry responsible for sports is even more subject to the interests of the private sector, particularly since the establishment of the National Sports Agency. The Mouvement des entreprises de France (MEDEF) participates in the governance of this public interest group, whose only financier is the State. The public authorities have delegated some of their powers to this agency; However, it pursues an ultra-elitist policy, which aims to achieve short-term results, to the detriment of the structuring of a diverse set of sports disciplines, which nevertheless constitutes the DNA of sport in France. As a result, the findings made in 2017 are still valid. Local sports facilities, where they exist, are outdated, inadequate or even at the end of life for half of them. Voluntary engagement is not recognized, and lack of financial resources prevents associations from making the necessary hirings. The needs of people with disabilities are not adequately addressed. Yet, in addition to health issues, support for sport is in the public interest. The sports movement is the second largest French association, with 16 million licensees, 286000 jobs, a network of clubs and 3.5 million volunteers, invested in 317,000 associations which represent 24% of French associations. I plead for a sports policy back and forth from your liberal logic, which assigns sport to the culture of intense competition to its climax. Sport is a public service mission. Without amateur sport, there will be no champions or champions. It is therefore time to get the sport out of the logics of market, competition and bargaining to the extreme, in order to allow everyone to develop their creative abilities and self-esteem, in respect of others – I say well: in respect of others. Access to sport and physical activity of one's choice must be guaranteed for all throughout life, regardless of income, sex, age, skin colour, religion or disability. It is time to make healthy sport an essential element of human well-being by supporting prescription sport and the renovation of sports facilities. The text is not up to these great ambitions. It does not break in any way with the situation of the sports movement. You believe that access to sport and physical activity is a chance more than a real right. All this is a huge waste – five years lost to the public service of sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u317	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u318	We are considering for the second time the bill to democratize sport in France, the only five-year text dedicated to the practice of sport for all. He was expected. Indispensable to society, sport is a vehicle for emancipation, union and equality between women and men. He suffered the health crisis with full force: amateur sport was completely stopped during the first confinement; 74% of clubs reported, on average, a loss of 26% of their licensees due to the epidemic; the cumulative revenue losses amount to almost EUR 400 million. Yet we have never needed it so much. Telework, inactivity, sedentaryness, isolation: sport is an indispensable response to all these problems. I regret that the priorities of this text have not been to encourage the practice of sport or to promote its benefits for health and social cohesion. From the rostrum, I thank all the players in the sports movement for their determination: the volunteers of the associations of our constituencies; sports coaches; the officers of the regional academic delegations on youth, engagement and sports, mobilized every day, the number of which has unfortunately been divided by two. For their part, local and regional authorities are doing everything possible to ensure the permanence of the sports world, by endeavouring, despite ever more severe budgets, to maintain or even increase subsidies to sports associations. The purpose of this bill is in particular to develop the practice of sport for as many people as possible and to establish new governance. It also aims to create a national platform to combat the manipulation of sports competitions and to combat the illegal retransmission of events, including streaming. Bringing French sport into the modern age, imposing parity in sports bodies and allowing women to take up leadership positions are ambitious goals, which unfortunately are accompanied by shortcomings. Amendments on physical and sports education, on the development of women's sport and on mandisport were found inadmissible. In these areas, however, the French have real needs and expectations. Nor does the text provide for the possible financial support of expensive sports facilities to enable all children in our country to practice sport of their choice, even if it is expensive, in order to avoid any discrimination between those living in a precarious home and those from wealthy families. However, it is a matter of democratizing sport. There is no provision for sport at school. Physical and sports education, unfortunately, remains an adjustment variable, while it is a real lever for emancipation, discovery and health for young people. Furthermore, measures on new governance in sport will only take full effect after four years. Legislation to strengthen parity or non-cumulative mandates will only apply in 2024, after the Olympic and Paralympic Games, when they are intended to be the first equal games. This would have been a good signal, but it must be noted that the timetable for this bill is late. I am also bitterly sorry that since the Joint Joint Committee, the wearing of religious signs during sports has become the main theme of this text in the media. I have the absolute conviction that this is not the subject,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u319	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u320	... and that the involvement of volunteers and the sports movement, as well as its place in our society, require a much higher debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u321	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u322	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u323	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u324	Article 1 provides that medical and social institutions and services shall provide persons with disabilities and vulnerable and elderly persons with physical and sporting practices, in particular through a sports correspondent whose parliamentary work has confirmed their existence. The aim is to expand the public that can benefit from an appropriate physical activity prescription, as well as to add new prescribers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Thanks to the enrichments brought in as it is reviewed, here and in the Senate, the text reinforces the deployment and missions of sport-health homes. Finally – it should be obvious to each and every one of us on these benches – it enshrines equal access to sports, without discrimination of any kind.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u325	The rapporteur, Céline Calvez, has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u326	It is intended to clarify that the information provided to persons attending social and medico-social institutions should relate to the activities carried out both within the establishments and in their vicinity or in the home of the persons concerned. It is therefore an amendment of precision, which tends to provide better information.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u327	On Amendment No 104, I have a request from the Socialist and Related Group for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u328	The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 96.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u329	Ms Roxana Maracinanu, Minister for Sport, and Ms Brigitte Bourguignon, Minister for Autonomy, are very committed to making sport a powerful tool to combat the loss of autonomy; their departments are actively working together in this direction. This amendment aims to improve the quality of life and prevent the health problems, including mental health problems, of our seniors through appropriate physical activities. It's about making sport a must in every moment of life. In the medium to long term, this important investment in prevention, as opposed to curative action, will save families and social security.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u330	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u331	Favourable opinion. This cannot be the other way round, since it is a matter of opening up the prescription of suitable physical activity to a greater number of people; In addition, the scheme is part of an ageing population, which must be accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u332	Mr Régis Juanico has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u333	As I said in the general discussion, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this amendment. Indeed, it is appropriate, since there will be no "large age and autonomy" law, whereas it should include a part relating to the prevention of loss of autonomy. These provisions are complementary to those already contained in the text. Indeed, the amendment aims to broaden the target audience of the scheme, which will now apply to persons with chronic disease or loss of autonomy, in addition to those with long-term illness. As with the definition of sports-health homes, the training of doctors is concerned, because prescriptions require prescribers. However, the text provides that all physicians who take care of the patients concerned, and not only the treating physicians, will be allowed to establish such prescriptions. With regard to sedentarity, 25 per cent of women and 17 per cent of men aged 55 to 85 reported falling in the last 12 months. However, 85% of emergency services for people over the age of 65 are linked to a life-time accident and are caused by a fall. Thus, for seniors, greater physical activity reduces the risk of falls and mortality, and improves cognitive functions. Many actors, such as the Blue Siel Association, are involved everywhere with people in situations of loss of autonomy. We referred earlier to teachers in adapted physical activity: we will not be able to include their role in the law, but I want to take this opportunity to greet them and tell them that we are thinking about them. For forty years, they have also been trained for this audience.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u334	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u335	The report of the Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee of 21 July 2021 formally attests that, at all ages of life, the link between physical activity, the preservation of autonomy and the reduction of early mortality is no longer to be done. It demonstrates the value of adapted physical activity for seniors, echoing WHO's proposals. Many actions have already been put in place, such as the European Vivifrail programme for the prevention of fragility and falls among the over 70s, or the senior fitness test, which evaluates the physical condition of the elderly. This amendment, which aims to extend the prescription of physical activity adapted to persons who are ageing and are at risk of loss of autonomy, is a real step forward in preventing loss of autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u336	A revolution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u337	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for this amendment; If of adventure we expanded the possibility of performing this prescription to massagers-kinesistherapists, it would be even more extensive and effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u338	The Commission has deleted Article 1b(D). Mr Regis Juanico has the floor to support Amendment No 104, which is intended to restore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u339	The three headings of the text contain provisions which constitute real progress. These include physical activity from an early age, although it is still too little developed after school, college, high school and higher education – there is a lack of such activity. We have just mentioned people who are losing their autonomy; We could also talk about administration. There is still a lack of meaningful measures to promote physical and sporting activity in the workplace and in businesses. This amendment aims at re-establishing a provision adopted in the Senate at first reading, which provides that the annual negotiation on occupational equality between women and men and the quality of life at work also concerns measures promoting the physical and sporting activities of employees, for their health and well-being. We know that it is a powerful factor in the fight against stress and anxiety; It is also a tool for combating absenteeism in the workplace – it is scientifically demonstrated. If we want to encourage companies to install sports facilities and sports halls, to bring in business workers, to encourage and encourage their employees to take licences or courses in physical and sporting activities, it is necessary to include them in the labour code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u340	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u341	In the absence of consultation with the stakeholders concerned and in view of the recent introduction of mechanisms, we have deleted Article 1b(D). The mechanisms I am talking about are those that we adopted in the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. The benefits of the employer's provision of equipment for collective use dedicated to the performance of physical and sporting activities or of the employer's financing of physical and sporting activities are, under certain conditions, exempt from social contributions and contributions. This is a real incentive, perhaps far more effective than the reference to collective bargaining, which has not yet achieved results. We do not think that this aspect of the quality of life at work, favoured by physical and sporting activities, is ripe to enter into negotiations, especially since since 2017 and the work orders, we have reinforced the fact that physical and sporting activities are part of the tasks of the social and economic committee of the company. We cannot therefore oppose these two fields. On the other hand, the more fields are integrated into annual negotiations, the more the capacity to process each field is weakened. I remind you – some will be sensitive – that we have incorporated equality between women and men into the annual negotiations; You know, it's a five-year priority. It was important to preserve the place of this field in annual corporate bargaining. Finally, since we are talking about sports in companies, I must mention the parliamentary mission entrusted to our colleagues Aude Amadou and Maud Petit, which is precisely about this subject and will lead to recommendations in a few days' time. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u342	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u343	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u344	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u345	I really regret, Madam rapporteur, that I do not know when this proposal to promote the physical and sporting activities of employees, which I think is entirely justified. We are very late compared to other countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u346	That's a good argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u347	Since we are talking about the democratisation of sport, this may be an opportunity to make progress. I therefore call on my colleagues to vote in favour of Mr Juanico's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u348	I put to the vote Amendment No 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u349	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 74 Absolute majority 38 For adoption 20 Against 54
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u350	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u351	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u352	Throughout the afternoon, we emphasized in most of our interventions the importance of sport practice for young people, for elders, for women and for men – in short, for everyone. The Act must mean that access to sports activities and sports practice is a right, in the same way as the right to a roof, health or education. A right means that everyone must be able to benefit from a sports practice. The inclusion of this concept of law in the law would be an important step forward, which would then allow the necessary means to be devoted to the opening up of this practice to all.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u353	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u354	You and your group have already defended this amendment on the notion of essential law. As you recalled, sports practice is essential. However, the notion of essential law is not part of our legislative possibilities, as it does not exist in our laws. We have selected some of the proposals you made to modernize Article L. 100-1 of the Sport Code. On the other hand, the fragility of this notion of essential law leads me to express an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u355	I call Mr Michel Larive to support Amendment No. 69.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u356	The aim is to place several fundamental principles at the heart of the sport model, by stating from the first lines of the sports code that "sports practice is a national priority", that "the right to physical and sports practice is guaranteed to everyone" and that "the public service of sport ensures... to guarantee this right and implements a policy based on solidarity and collective emancipation. It should be remembered that physical inactivity kills ten times more each year than road accidents. The right of everyone to the practice of sport must also be guaranteed. This means that resources must finally be devoted to the construction and renovation of sports facilities, that they must be adapted to persons with disabilities, that arrangements must be created to enable single-parent families, women and senior citizens to have access to sports practice. It also requires the adoption of a free-of-charge principle so that money is no longer a barrier to practice. Finally, this requires an effective fight against all discrimination within the sports movement. To achieve these objectives, the public service of sport must be at the heart of our policy. This amendment therefore intends to re-examine the French sports model and make collective emancipation our compass.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u357	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u358	You speak of a national priority: it may be attractive, but it does not correspond to any legal reality. There are the national causes and major causes, which are the subject of executive decrees, but national priority cannot be included in our body of legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u359	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u360	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u361	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u362	Madam rapporteur, I agree that sport should become a major national cause.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u363	You're not the one who decides!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u364	The rapporteur can under-amend!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u365	The rapporteur's amendment No 118 is precise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u366	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 119 and 128. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 119.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u367	I shall allow Mr Poulliat to present the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u368	I call Mr Poulliat to support Amendment No. 128.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u369	During the examination of the law of 24 August 2021, we discussed at length the question of respect for the principles of the Republic, particularly in the field of sport. This led to the drafting of the Republican commitment contract for associations and the introduction of republican principles in the sport code. Since the provisions of the Sports Code, in particular article L. 100-1, have been amended in the course of the examination of the bill, it seems to us essential to reintroduce the practice of sport within a framework strictly respectful of the principles of the Republic. This is the aim of this amendment: to bring the democratisation of sport under the proposed law and the observance of the principles of the Republic required by the Act of 24 August 2021, which aims to combat separatism. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We thus respond to the demands of the sports world, opening our arms to all, to make sport a space of cohesion, in the love of the Republic and respect for its principles. It's our Republic, our whole Republic, just our Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u370	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u371	It aims to highlight how sport activities allow for understanding of rules, tolerance and friendship between people, groups and peoples. It is also, through its drafting, an appeal to the sports movements to fulfil these missions, to respect them and to work on them. We need an ethical sport model that meets these objectives and the principles of the Republic, as provided for in the amendment just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u372	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u373	One of the virtues of sport is to understand the rules, to discover each other and to be more tolerant. If this conviction is shared on every bench, I do not think it is relevant to include it in the text. The values it promotes echo those set out in the Olympic Charter, which is very comprehensive. You pay tribute to the sports movement, which fully supports their defence. The bill provides a new framework and means to further protect them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u374	Mr Michel Larive has the floor to support Amendment No. 70.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u375	We want to sanctify the public service of youth and sports. This amendment follows the mobilisation of the General Assembly on Youth and Sports, which alerts the national representation on the future of this public service. She noted that the draft law reinforced the lack of resources allocated to public policies and the recruitment of staff in the field of youth and sports. Public service must do more with less resources. In 2010, 8500 people worked in this sector; Today, there are 4200 of them, reflecting a desire to implement a plan for the extinction of the workforce. Several thousand people are missing: 1000 people working in the administrative services, 1000 sports teachers, 1000 popular education and youth counsellors. Yet their role is indispensable. With the General Assembly, we ask ourselves: who else but the staff to carry out these public policies of linkage and education in this field? The absorption of the public service for youth and sports by the Ministry of National Education must not lead to its disappearance, while it has been plagued by budget cuts for years. By this amendment, we propose to include the role of the public service for youth and sports in the sports code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u376	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u377	The public service for youth and sports exists well.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u378	It doesn't sound like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u379	There is no need to mention this in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u380	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u381	Mr President, I would also like to put the public service for youth and sports to a standstill. Indeed, society is changing, as is social demand. It is in this context that the officials responsible for this public service mission must intervene. An ongoing study assesses the need for new missions and the skills required to carry them out effectively. We must not freeze any provision in the law until we have taken the time to analyze the conclusions that will be delivered. Of course, the public service for youth and sports must be maintained, and I am also convinced of that. We must organize it in order to be in line with the needs of our time. For this purpose, the Minister has the regulatory power to organize his services. The public service for youth and sports will not be absorbed by the Ministry of National Education. The educational alliance is a completely different logic: it consists of intervening during the school and extracurricular time of the child. Since times are different, intervention methods must also be distinguished. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u382	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u383	It is interesting to note that we agree. So if we are, you can include the role of the public service for youth and sports in the sport code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u384	On the same amendments Nos 3 and 98, I have a request from the Group of the European People's Party for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u385	This editorial amendment aims to simplify the wording of paragraph 6, in order to avoid getting lost in litanyes of exceptions – by adding them, they lose their meaning. To clarify that the law promotes equal access "for all" to physical and sporting activities is sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u386	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u387	This "litany of exceptions" is inspired by the wording of article 225-1 of the Criminal Code. This legal basis is strong enough and tested for listing to be included in the proposed legislation. It is important to remind us in Article L. 100-1 of the Sport Code that it is necessary to promote the fight against all discrimination. To do so, it is important to know what this word means. In law, discrimination is an unfavourable treatment that meets two cumulative conditions: to be based on a criterion defined by law and to be subject to a situation covered by law. I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u388	Mr Raphaël Gérard has the floor to support Amendment No. 20, which is the subject of a sub-amendment No. 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u389	In committee, the rapporteur has adopted an amendment to assign to those involved in sport development policy a mission to prevent and combat violence of all kinds. For the sake of consistency, I propose to adopt a wording of paragraph 2 of Article L. 100-2 of the Sport Code identical to that of Article L. 112-14 of the same Code, defining the objectives of the regional sports conferences, as set out in the Act of 1 August 2019 on the establishment of the National Sports Agency and various provisions relating to the organisation of the Olympic and Paralympic Games of 2024. These two provisions have the same purpose. Furthermore, the introduction of the objective of combating and preventing discrimination in this text is relevant.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u390	The rapporteur has the floor to support sub-amendment No 159.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u391	It aims to delete the phrase "for all", in order to emphasize the fight against violence and discrimination. Favourable opinion on the amendment as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u392	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u393	Favourable opinion on the sub-amendment and the amendment as amended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u394	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u395	I am surprised that the legislator gives in to the sirens of the politically correct verbal. So far, the grammatical rule that applies in France is that which we have been using since the 18th century; The primacy of the male over the female is a legacy of the Century of Lights, widely cherished among these ranks. The grammatical principles it has established have not yet been seriously questioned. The legislator does not have to use a vocabulary corresponding to the modes of the moment. That is the meaning of this amendment, which is intended to delete the phrase "all and", in order to retain only the word "all".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u397	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You want to delete the phrase "all and". In the summary presentation, you refer to the Century of Lights. If we were to stay at that time, we would give up many advances in women's rights, including the right to sit here. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u398	It's grammar!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u399	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u400	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u401	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u402	Dear colleague, you refer to the Century of Lights; I advise you to read what Jean-Jacques Rousseau wrote about women, including his description of their role in society. They simply had to raise the son, be a good wife and a good lover. Point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u403	A certain minister of the interior said the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u404	Yes, Jean-Jacques Rousseau belongs to the Century of Lights. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and FI groups]] In France, until 1965, women could not work without the permission of their husbands; until 1944, they could not vote; For a whole period of time, there was only talk of politicians, for there was no politician. The visibility of women, talking about women and men politicians, citizens and citizens, writing "all and all", is a step forward. This goes far beyond what was written in the Enlightenment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u405	The Commission has deleted Article 1d(B). I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 3 and 98, aimed at restoring it. I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u406	Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your lack of clarity puts our patience to great test. On the one hand, you explain that sport should be promoted; on the other, you delete this article which recalls the essential role of sport in school for young people, who can only avoid it for medical reasons. While Article 3 quater A intensifyes the practice of sport in elementary school, at the same time you refuse to recall the obligation to participate in sports courses; It is a new illustration of the "at the same time", so characteristic and difficult to understand. Finally, this article gives the head of establishment the opportunity to verify the actual reason for an exemption from sports classes, but it does not oblige him to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u407	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u408	We frequently find that, in order not to engage in physical and sporting activities, young girls submit medical certificates that prove to be certificates of convenience. Behind these certificates, an Islamist community pressure – let's say very clearly – is being exerted. Thus, sport could not be practiced in a mixed manner. Moreover, with regard to the debate that we have had – and that we will have again in a few moments – on the presence of ostensible religious signs during the practice of sport, I have noted a statement by the lawyer of the "hijabists" or "hijabists", I do not know how we can qualify them. She says that for the moment – everything is in this expression – they do not claim to practice sport on separate schedules. They had to demonstrate before the National Assembly earlier; the order prohibiting the police prefect has just been suspended by the administrative court. It is clear that the wearing of hijab, a provocation, is already a step in the establishment of differentiated courses and timetables for girls and young boys, which are permitted by these certificates of complacency.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u409	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u410	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] As Maxime Minot recalled, we want to make it clear that no certificate of complacency can be accepted and that a check of school medicine must therefore be carried out when there is suspicion. The purpose of this provision is to recall that the practice of sport is universal and that in the French Republic men and women, girls and boys are not separated for religious reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u411	What a contempt!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u412	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u413	You want to come back to a subject that has been widely debated during the discussion of the law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. I use the words of my colleague Anne Brugnera who, at the time, had answered perfectly: "Although the question of certificates of convenience is not annoyed and must be objected to, this article has the consequence of allowing, or even imposing, the head of the institution or the teacher, on the sole basis of his suspicion, to question a medical certificate which has been drawn up by a doctor, in accordance with the medical secrecy and the oath of Hippocrates which binds him as to the acts which he carries out and issues. Such questioning of medical speech cannot be encouraged. » I wish to inform you that Article R. 312-3 of the Education Code provides that medical certificates are already issued to school doctors when an incapacity of more than three months is found.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u414	Three months!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u415	Article 2 of the Decree of 13 September 1989 on the medical examination of incapacity for physical and sporting education in educational institutions states that "Any pupil for whom a total or partial incapacity of more than three months, consecutive or cumulative, for the current school year has been pronounced shall be subject to special supervision by the school health doctor in conjunction with the attending doctor".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u416	Finally, article 3 of the same decree states that any teacher of physical and sports education may, when he deems it necessary, request the examination of a pupil by the school doctor or by the family doctor. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u417	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u418	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u419	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u420	Here's the solution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u421	[[Mrs Constance Le Grip protested]] Dear colleagues of the Republicans Group, it is the coherence that you are putting to the test. Throughout the review of the text that reinforces the tools for managing the health crisis, you raised the issue of medical secrecy – which, in your opinion, was so absolute as to justify the lack of verification by the head of medical certificates, the vaccination pass or the health situation of the students. And then, you want anyone to be able to question the word of the doctor who issued a medical certificate. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You can resort to any contortion to oppose the expression of a religion in sport: it is your right, it is your position, but it is not a majority in this House and will not appear in the text. Nor are you in a position to justify the totally incoherent statements you make, so that we are opposed to your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u422	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u423	Mr Ciotti, you are fantasizing a country that does not exist and we will not give it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u424	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u425	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] You're starting from a medical certificate to lead to stigmatization. Will all your amendments be of the same content? Be aware that we will reply systematically "Republic", Mr. Ciotti! Because you're gone!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u426	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 3 and 98.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u427	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 88 Number of votes cast 88 Absolute majority 45 For adoption 17 Against 71
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u428	The Commission has deleted Article 1d C. I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 130, 12, 57, 13, 60, 2, 85, 100, 101, 11, 49, 1, 35, 46 and 99, which are intended to restore it and which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 12 and 57 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 13 and 60, Amendments Nos 2, 85 and 100, Amendments Nos 11 and 49 and Amendments Nos 1, 35, 46 and 99. I call Mr Lioger to support Amendment No. 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u429	Coming from a working-class family in Saint-Denis, I know what I owe to the secular and universal republic. I will therefore strongly defend this amendment, which is not in any way a way to exclude anyone from sports practice, but instead seeks to recall its values of universal sharing. Sport is an essential place for education, socialization, and learning about respect for rules and civics. It must bring us together, help us to fraternize, vibrate together and break down the barriers of our differences. It is therefore intended to be deeply egalitarian: all equal on the ground, without distinction, whatever it may be. Sport is a smuggler, a tool to create a bond, to help us – whoever we are, wherever we come from, whatever our beliefs, orientations and origins – to live together, to overcome differences, to build common. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We all defend, on these benches, the same republican and universalist principles. As in school, all people involved in sport – starting with the younger ones – should wear only one uniform: the jersey common to their team and similar to that of their opponents. It must remain the only visible distinguishing sign of the spectators. Any other addition, of any kind, must be prohibited by the law of the Republic, so that sports educators, coaches, club presidents can refer to it and require only the wearing of the sports equipment in force. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u430	Mr Eric Diard's Amendment No 12 is being defended. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 57.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u431	It refers to the Olympic Charter – that of the supreme organ of the organisation of the sports movement – and aims to incorporate its principles – which are common sense – into our law and the sport code. Article 50 of the Charter states that "no kind of political, religious or racial demonstration or propaganda is permitted in any Olympic place, site or other location". The aim is to decline this provision at the level of sports federations and sports clubs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u432	On identical amendments Nos 2, 85 and 100, and on identical amendments Nos 1, 35, 46 and 99, the Republicans have asked for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Identical Amendments Nos 13 by Mr Eric Diard and 60 by Mr Eric Pauget are being defended. Mrs Constance Le Grip has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u433	In a constructive spirit of compromise and concord, I fully endorse the compromise and conciliation amendment proposed by the rapporteur for the text in the Senate, Michel Savin, at the meeting of the Joint Joint Committee. It aims to clarify that "the wearing of signs or held by which persons... ostensibly manifest religious affiliation in sporting competitions... is prohibited. » It also aims to establish a system identical to that of the 2004 major law, which, in application of the principle of secularism, governs the wearing of signs or outfits showing religious affiliation in public schools, colleges and high schools, which establishes a phase of dialogue allowing situations to be considered on a case-by-case basis. The ethics committee set up by each delegated federation could thus exchange with the persons concerned by a possible measure prohibiting the wearing of signs that ostensibly manifest membership of a religion. This amendment seems acceptable to me and is in line with the spirit of the Olympic Charter which our colleague has just mentioned. It is also in line with the major law of 2004, which established a dialogue phase before any decision was taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u434	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 85.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u435	I will be brief, because Mrs Le Grip has defended this amendment well. Of senatorial origin, proposed at the Joint Committee, it corresponded to the minimum trade union to obtain an agreement. This is a withdrawal amendment, aimed at prohibiting the wearing of ostentatious religious signs by sports licensees in sports competitions. The restriction of such a ban on sporting competitions is already a big step backwards. The examination of the bill to strengthen respect for the principles of the Republic has shown that Islamism has made schools – and especially sport – its preferred playground and one of the privileged targets of enterrism and separatism. We see it every day, since no match takes place without ostentatious signs of manifestation of a religion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u436	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u437	You say no, but that's the case in a lot of places. It is important to repeat it and remind it, with a lot of calm but also a lot of firmness, because sport must only guarantee respect for its own values: not religious practice, but the overcoming, respect for oneself, its opponents, the rules of the game and solidarity, the team spirit and the taste of effort. That is why we are once again defending this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u438	Amendment No 100 by Mr Eric Ciotti is being defended. I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u439	It is intended to prohibit the wearing of religious signs ostensible by minors. It is an amendment of withdrawal from that which I will defend in a few moments to prohibit the wearing of ostensible religious signs in sports practices. It could be the subject of broad consensus. Indeed, while adults are likely to oppose their freedom of conscience regarding ostensible religious signs, minors – very often children – are subjected to communal and religious pressure that they cannot oppose, because of the strength of a family and friendly environment often associated with constraints. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Who in this House, even if they had done so in the past, would today accept the wearing of religious signs – the wearing of the veil – for girls? I repeat, the veil is an instrument of submission, a sign of distrust of women and deep inequalities. When minors or girls are involved, this constitutes an aggravating circumstance, to which our assembly would honor to express a firm and resolute opposition, a sign of courage and firmness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u440	Mr Eric Diard's Amendment No 11 is being defended. I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u441	[[Mrs Constance Le Grip acquiesce]] [[Mrs Anne Brugnera protested]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Similar to that of our colleague Eric Diard, it follows from the report drawn up by the latter, which I invite you to read again. Sport cannot become the gateway to Islamic religious community in our country. I have been, for twenty-five years, deputy in charge of sports in a very sporty city – Antibes Juan-les-Pins: I have seen in some sports disciplines – not all – a religious and Islamic enterrism. It is our duty – as legislators – to put barriers, to recall the Charter of Olympism: on a sports field, it is not faith that dictates the rule, but it is the law that we must adopt.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u442	They didn't read it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u443	I call Mr Maxime Minot to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u444	As I indicated in my opening remarks, this amendment by the Republicans as a whole is aimed at re-establishing Article 1d C in the version adopted by the Senate, in order to prohibit ostentatious religious signs in sporting events and competitions. We refuse to compromise on secularism or on equality between women and men. These principles are challenged by radicalised people who use sports practices and events, although financed by the taxes of all French people, to make proselytism. This misappropriation of the ideals of sport is intolerable, while the answers provided so far are insufficient. This text provides us with an opportunity to strengthen our legal arsenal. Let us recall that this proposal is an application of the Olympic Charter, which prohibits any political, religious or racial demonstration or propaganda. We therefore propose that you re-establish the clause adopted in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u445	Mrs Marie-France Lorho has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u446	My amendment is to reinstate a provision of the Senate, which I find to be of common sense, on the wearing of the veil by participants in sporting events and competitions. The wearing of the veil is a sign of political connotations. In the vision of Wahhabi Islam, found in Saudi Arabia or Qatar, the woman is distinguished by wearing a veil supposed to mark her modesty. It is unacceptable to allow a political message from foreign nations to enter sport. In addition, wearing the veil during the sport practice is not suitable because it distinguishes the people who wear it and induces a potential disparity of treatment among all those present in the field. Madam Secretary of State, Republican contracts of engagement, which are not binding, are by no means a valid answer to such a problem. It is therefore necessary to crystallize in law the prohibition of the ostensible port of such an eminently political distinctive sign.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u447	I call Mr Pauget to support Amendment No. 46.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u448	Without going back to the content of this amendment identical to the two previous ones, I would like to warn you of the risk of allowing sport to open up to communalism. Let us recall some figures from the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports and the Ministry of the Interior. There were 127 associations linked to separatist movements and you intervened with 16 of them – there are 111 of them left. As an association has an average of 80 to 90 licensees, so there are potentially 10,000 people in our country who are linked to separatist movements through sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u449	Potentially!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u450	This should open your eyes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u451	I call Mr Ciotti to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u452	This amendment repeats a measure that we have been calling for since the beginning of this sitting and that the senators of the group The Republicans and the Senate majority courageously tried to introduce this text. You pretend, Madam Secretary of State, that our position is a challenge to the text, which is not the case. On the other hand, I believe that the National Assembly, at least its majority, would commit a very serious fault by allowing a provision to flourish that will favour the wearing of religious signs in sport and which will give up the sports federations very loosely to themselves. This debate joins the one that Jacques Chirac had been confronted with in 2002, after the case of Creil's college girls, and the one to which Nicolas Sarkozy was confronted when it was necessary to pass the law against the concealment of the face, against burqa in public space. So yes, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this evening we solemnly call on you to show courage. In the future, all our sports competitions must not be polluted by tensions, violence, confrontations, demonstrations or demands such as those that have wanted to speak before the National Assembly this afternoon. The hijabs are testing us. They challenge the Republic: their veil is a standard of conquest, the flagbearer of Islamists and communalist demands. The danger is there. Measure it! Finally show courage! [[Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] [[Same movements]] This quinquennium will have been of no use in the fight against Islamism. He produced only words, words, beautiful speeches. We have to take action. We must leave the discourse of the Walls and the addition of measures such as those of the law for the respect of the principles of the Republic which, we see, has no concrete effect. See what's going on in Roubaix, hear the threats! [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] We must not allow Islamism to contaminate sport. Have this courage, seize this subject, do not let it, out of cowardice, prosper and create irreversible tensions in our society!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u453	You're the one doing it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u454	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u455	In view of this variety of proposals, I think it is important to recall certain principles. First point: you are making a very quick shortcut between the ban on the wearing of religious signs and the Olympic Charter, which prohibits any political or religious demonstration or propaganda during the Games. The Council of State, in a decision, held that the wearing of the headscarf alone could not constitute propaganda. Secondly, I would like to clarify the difference between the duty of neutrality and the principle of secularism. The principle of neutrality applies to agents and mentors of sports federations, public service delegates, and not to their users. They are no more subject to this duty of neutrality than they are in public space. Let's go to the miners. Mr Ciotti, you recalled the 2004 law which prohibits the wearing of religious signs in schools. If you adopted the same system in associations, whether for minors or adults, you would be against associative freedom. That is why I express an unfavorable opinion on all these amendments. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, I recall that the 1905 law allows us to fight proselytism. As for the law that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic, it has created the contract of republican commitment. Currently, federations and associations are signing this contract, a pragmatic and effective response to the risks of radicalism that exist in sport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u456	We have doubts!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u457	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u458	In my joint response to all of these amendments, I will reiterate that we have widely discussed neutrality in sport, and more generally in the public sphere, during the parliamentary work of 2021, particularly in the context of the examination of the law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. As far as sport is concerned, parliamentarians have decided very clearly to ensure that the principle of secularism, as defined by our Constitution, is applied. As I said in the general discussion, however, it is important to look at the situation as it is and not to put the dust under the carpet: sport is, like the whole of our society, plagued by radicalisation. Combating this phenomenon is a priority of the Government, in particular the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports. It is precisely in order to strengthen the means to combat religious separatism and abusive proselytism that the law of 24 August 2021 created the contract of engagement republican. It is now mandatory for all associations recognized or subsidized by the State or communities. It was our government that wanted the sports associations sector to be more accountable through the seven measures contained in this contract of engagement. It was our government that reminded local authorities of their primary responsibility to monitor the use of public subsidies and their equipment. It is our government that has imposed on the National Agency of Sport, the operator of the ministry that deploys the funding to the sports federations, the elaboration of a charter of the values of the Republic for the implementation of its action. I will not erase the many measures and public policies applied in the territory, particularly in the area of priority education, as I will not go back to the appropriations deployed by the city's policy, particularly in the areas of republican reconquest. It is our government that has re-founded the relationship between the state and sports federations through the compulsory signature, in 2022, of a contract of delegation that will regulate the conditions under which prerogatives of public authority will be entrusted by the ministry to the federations. It is our government that has deployed in 2018 the network of referents for the prevention of radicalisation in the thirty-one sports federations. Yes, it is a little long, because the Government has done a lot, as in our twenty public training establishments and in all our deconcentrated services. For the fourth time in four years, the Ministry of National Education, Youth and Sports will bring together its three networks in a few days, under the guidance of our liaison officer of the Ministry of the Interior, in order to address in the eyes all the subjects relating to the management of the religious fact, the fight against separatism and the prevention of radicalization. Finally, it is our government that created the CLIRs, which involve all government officials, including youth and sports officers. Here are two figures: 385 sports facilities have been specifically controlled since 2018; 16 sports establishments were closed administratively. Sport is a vehicle for learning citizenship, integration, social cohesion, combating school failure, emancipation and reducing social and cultural inequalities. We are proud of that. Mr Ciotti, you want to repeat a debate that took place exactly a year ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u459	You're putting a room back in the jukebox!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u460	No, I'll answer you! It is precisely because the legal means were insufficient that the Law of 2021 gives new levers to the prefects to dissolve the associations. You know that! For all these reasons, the Government gives an unfavorable opinion on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u461	Ladies and gentlemen, I have nine requests to speak. If I kept the rules to the letter, which I won't do, I should only accept two. I will give the floor to each of you, but I ask you to be brief and not to exceed one minute per intervention. Mr Pierre Henriet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u462	The Secretary of State rightly referred to the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic. Amendment No 130 is intended to extend the provisions of this text and the charter of secularism in public services, adopted on 9 December 2021, which stipulates that users of public services must refrain from any form of proselytism. We propose to introduce this obligation of neutrality in the sports code, which would allow sports federations to combat religious proselytism on a daily basis. The players in the sports world have not waited for us to put in place strong measures to ensure respect for secularism, as Mrs Buffet pointed out. I would like to mention the French Football Federation (FFF)...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u463	Please respect the rules that we have given ourselves, my colleague. I'll give you time to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u464	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Article 1 of the FFF Regulation prohibits "any sign or dress that ostensibly manifests a political, philosophical, religious or trade union affiliation. We want to strengthen this principle by including it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u465	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u466	This series of amendments shows that some of you see only what they believe. Let's try to get out of the beliefs and look at reality in the face. This text tends to allow all to practice an inclusive sport, which embodies values such as friendship, respect, self-exhaustion, mutual assistance. These are the values of the Republic. You, Members of the Republican Group, are proposing a text that limits this practice, excludes, discriminates, stigmatizes some of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u467	You really don't do caricature!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u468	For our part, we want to facilitate access to sport for all, everywhere in France. We propose, for example, to integrate sport in the missions of social and medical-social institutions, to make school facilities accessible to associations, to develop health sport. We believe that to democratize sport, it is necessary to transform the governance of federations by making it more transparent and by establishing parity within federal bodies. To democratize sport, it is also necessary to reform the sport economic model. But you, the Republicans,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u469	Thank you, Mrs. Rilhac.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u470	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] ... you reject this text on the sole ground that it does not prohibit the wearing of ostensible religious signs in competitions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u471	We are not talking about explanations of vote!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u472	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u473	Let me reply to Mr Pauget. Like him, I was a sports assistant; Like him, I've been confronted with this kind of situation. But never – I'm never saying – has it been settled in the prosecutor's office or at the police station. We have been able to solve this problem intelligently, which we do not underestimate. I'd like to go back to the Olympism Charter. We fully agree with you on the first sentences of Article 50, which you have quoted. But you have limited yourself to these words while the International Olympic Committee has said much more about the subject. For example, he claimed that women had the right to wear the veil by allowing an Iranian athlete to do so during the 2008 Olympic events in China. This position is shared by IFAB, the International Football Association Council. I recall that the French Football Federation, mentioned earlier, made its decision for reasons of safety and not proselytism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u474	She did what she could!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u475	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For all these reasons, we will vote against...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u476	Thank you, Mr. Belhaddad. Mrs Aurore Bergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u477	We have all been, at one point in our journey, members of sports associations. I don't really know a single sports association that has ever discriminated against anyone based on their orientation or religion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u478	It's not about religion, it's about ostentatious signs of a religion!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u479	Sport has nothing to do with religion. The aim of Amendment No 130 by Mr Cormier-Bouligeon is precisely to reaffirm it, to ensure that no one is discriminated against on our sports grounds, in our sports federations and in our associations. All those who wish to do so can practice sport in France, because we are a secular, universalistic and democratic country. So we're giving everyone access to sport. Those who discriminate are those who want to separate, who want to veil and who want to make believe that the hijab allows the elevation and emancipation of women, whereas it is the opposite. It is important to reaffirm that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u480	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u481	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In the presidential majority, since the beginning of the legislature, we have been a number of people who want to say it very clearly and clearly. The Government and the majority have also acted decisively to ensure that a number of texts are in line.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u482	Mr Pierre-Alain Raphan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u483	Colleagues, you are in the midst of a collective drunkenness. You mentioned 127 associations, Mr. Pauget. Of course, there is a phenomenon and the problem has been dealt with in some way. However, it accounts for only 0.0003 per cent of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u484	Ten thousand fired!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u485	[[Protests on the benches of the LR group]] Secondly, you are once again dealing only with women. After wanting to reduce parity, you want to exclude veiled women from sports grounds. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] As you say that there is no need for religious signs on sports grounds, I would like to know how we should react when players make a sign of a cross on a football field by entering the field or to celebrate a goal or when they put their religion directly on their bodies by tattoos. Rather than just targeting a sex and religion, explain what we need to do in these cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u486	It's naive!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u487	Mr Michel Larive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u488	Our excellent colleague just said what I wanted to make heard. We're still not going to spend the evening answering an extreme right litany. Let us try to focus on the text: this should allow us to deal more intelligently. I agree enough with Mr. Raphan's comments: Should Jonathan Edwards be prohibited from signing when he broke the triple jump world record?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u489	That's not what this is about!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u490	Yes, it's the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u491	It's not an ostentatious sign!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u492	Will Fijian rugbymans not be allowed to sign when they sign an essay? Will it be necessary to prevent Neymar from signing when he marks a goal?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u493	You're confusing everything, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u494	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Your proposals are totally inconsistent. If it wasn't that bad, it'd be laughable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u495	Islamo-leftism is not a fantasy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u496	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u497	[[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] The Republican Group wishes to support Amendment No 130 by our colleague Cormier-Bouligeon and some 20 parliamentarians of the presidential majority...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u498	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u499	... because it proposes to introduce in the sports code an obligation of neutrality which can serve as a legal basis for the action of clubs and associations. We intend to work in the public interest and without sectarianism. We shall therefore vote on Amendment No 130.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u500	A far right support!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u501	It's okay!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u502	Mr Eric Ciotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u503	[[Long protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] I simply note – hoping that our fellow citizens who listen to these debates will witness this – that there is a total communion of views between the marching majority and the Insoumis. Yes, Mr. Castaner, it was you who compared the veil to Mother Teresa's scarf!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u504	Line up on the far right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u505	Now you come to tell us that a sign of the cross made when entering a football field has the same scope as the veil, an instrument of submission of women.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u506	It's a sign of religious affiliation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u507	Be very comfortable, line up on the far right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u508	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group. – Long exclamations on the banks of the LaREM group]] That's what you're saying, and you're assuming it in front of the national representation! We need the French to witness this, to measure the duplicity of Mr Macron's speech, to know that the texts you are voting here are supported by Mr Mélenchon's Insoumis! You are the accomplices of Islamism: The French will judge!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u509	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u510	Mrs Anne-Christine Lang has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u511	[[Claims on several banks of the LaREM and LR groups]] We are, of course, not fooled by attempts by some to exploit this text. I would like to say that we do not share in any way the outrageous and hateful remarks that have been made to the right of the House and that we do not give in to any hysteria on the question of the veil or a desire to stigmatize anyone, as others would like to make it appear. [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] We will vote for these amendments, because the values of the Republic, universalism and women's rights are essential to us. As we did during the consideration of the bill to uphold the principles of the Republic, there will be a number of us here to support these amendments. [[Same movements]] We believe that at the same time we must bring young people together through sport and fight with no naivety against Islamist intrusiveness. We are convinced that sport, like school, is one of the main vectors of the Republic. I have a very high idea of sport and its educational mission, as well as of the school of the Republic. I am convinced that the substance of this debate is the same, and that religious neutrality is the same in both cases because we are dealing with young people under construction. The values of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u512	Thank you, Mrs. Lang.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u513	... emancipation, a certain idea of gender equality or the lack of distinction between young people on the basis of their religion must be promoted in the same way in classrooms and on sports grounds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u514	Macron, Mélenchon: same fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u515	Pecress, Zemmour: same fight!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u516	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] I note that the arguments of those who oppose these amendments are exactly the same, word for word – I have done some research – as those that were raised during the 2004 Law on Religious Signs in Public Schools. Almost twenty years later, however, we see that this law has not posed any problems. In a team,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u517	Thank you, Mrs. Lang.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u518	[["Very good!" on the benches of the LR group]] ...in the field, everyone has the same jersey.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u519	Mrs Anne Brugnera has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u520	I would remind you that we have already had these debates on the occasion of the bill that reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. An article of this law specifically devoted to sport also provides for devices that already work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u521	They're useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u522	[[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] It seems to me quite uninteresting to relight the wick today simply for fun, to stick labels to each other or because we decided to make videos to broadcast during the campaign.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u523	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u524	[[Same movements]] The arguments themselves are quite uninteresting. The one who puts forward the Charter of Olympism is completely wrong, we have repeated it countless times during the examination of the bill confirming respect for the principles of the Republic – Belkhir Belhaddad has reexplained it to you. You repeat this argument when you do not know the subject or the law in question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u525	We are a group, we work in groups!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u526	We're not smart enough, it's probably too subtle for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u527	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] You use this type of argument, which is inaudible, only to hysterize the debate. We want to talk about sports!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u528	Mr François Jolivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u529	I will support Amendment No 130, firstly because it is excellent and secondly because, as legislators, we are doing law. However, on 22 November 2021, the Conseil d'État gave an interim ruling after being seized by a club banned by the International Federation of Football Association (FIFA) because of the dress of the players. Strangely enough, the judge in question did not cite, for his demonstration, the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic. On the one hand, he relied on article 1 of the statutes of the Fédération française de football, according to which clubs must ensure that any discrimination between participants is prevented on religious or political grounds – this is not the subject of the debate we have today – and on article 50 of the Olympic Charter, while specifying that if the sport in question had not been an Olympic sport, he did not know how he could have expressed a refusal. I simply echo words that I invite you to read, since the decision was published in the Lebon collection. In fact, the magistrate concluded – in a great spirit of courage! – which he did not want to judge on the merits, considering that the question was not urgent and that he would reply later. [[Richard Lioger applauds]] I simply note that our normative bloc today does not provide the judge with a legal basis for his decision.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u530	Mrs Claire O'Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u531	When I hear you, Mr Ciotti, I am ashamed – really ashamed. As a former high-performance athlete – I have been international for four years – I can tell you that sport is not that. It's not just that. I think above all about all these volunteers, these leaders, these coaches who convey values to our children,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u532	And what are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u533	... especially the love of the jersey, the love of their club, friendship. When we enter the dressing room of a stadium, we all dress in the same way: we put on the same socks, of the same color, tennis, shorts, jersey...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u534	We're not going to review the entire locker room, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u535	Some leaders have denounced...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u536	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u537	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 2, 85 and 100.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u538	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 100 Number of votes cast 97 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 22 Against 75
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u539	I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 1, 35, 46 and 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u540	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 96 Number of votes cast 93 Absolute majority 47 For adoption 21 Against 72
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u541	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-09-O1152.u542	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Further to the discussion of the bill to democratize sport in France. The meeting is adjourned.
