ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius on cooperation in defence matters and the status of forces (No 4200, 4754).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u3	I am pleased and proud to present today the bill to authorize the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius on defence cooperation and status of forces, signed in Port-Louis on 12 March 2018. France maintains excellent bilateral relations in the field of defence with the Republic of Mauritius, neighbouring La Réunion, the overseas department and region. Operational cooperation, which is dense and varied, mainly concerns the development of counter-terrorism capabilities and the increase of interoperability in its three dimensions: land, air and sea. It relies on about ten actions per year, in particular with the Armed Forces in the Southern Indian Ocean – FAZSOI – in the following areas: exchanges between units specializing in demining, joint trainings between the 2nd regiment of naval paratroopers and the Mauritian special forces, trainings of Mauritian personnel at the tropical ringing centre of La Réunion. The Mauritian security forces (MRF) also participate in major regional exercises of the FAZSOI such as Papange, Varatraza and Phoenix. The relations between the French armed forces, in particular the FAZSOI, and the Mauritian security forces, including the mobile special force, are strong and bear mutual trust. For more than 15 years and up to the restrictions linked to the health crisis, bilateral cooperation activities were carried out annually, mainly dedicated to the training of Mauritian military personnel, but also to aero-maritime actions in the French and Mauritian exclusive economic zones. Particularly appreciated by the Mauritian authorities, military cooperation between Mauritius and France proved dynamic and contributed to the influence of France in Mauritius. It also promotes the integration of overseas departments and regions into their regional environment. This shared issue was at the heart of the discussions between the French Prime Minister and the Mauritian Prime Minister, during a meeting on 7 September 2018. On that occasion, the two prime ministers discussed the common challenges facing our two countries in the Indian Ocean and how best to address them together. The strengthening of the bilateral relationship takes the form of the conclusion of a lasting legal framework to facilitate the deployment of French military personnel to Mauritian territory. Prior to the signing of the Defence Cooperation Agreement and the Status of Forces on 12 March 2018, the two States had already signed an agreement on cooperation in matters of internal security on 13 June 2008 and an agreement on maritime search and rescue, signed in Port Louis on 21 July 2011. The declaration of intent on bilateral defence cooperation, signed on 9 November 2018, confirms the strengthening of its naval component. The dynamism of military cooperation, however, is hampered by the lack of legal coverage of French forces deployed on Mauritian soil, highlighted in 2001 by a vehicle accident in which a serving member was involved. It is in order to overcome this difficulty that our two countries, in Port-Louis, signed the agreement today under your consideration on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Mauritius' independence. It determines the legal status and conditions for the stay of French personnel deployed in Mauritius and Mauritian personnel deployed in France in the framework of cooperation activities in the field of defence and security. It formalises the development of cooperation in the field of defence and security and defines the principles for its implementation. It specifies that the parties shall cooperate in the fields of defence and security policy, the organization and operation of the armed forces, humanitarian and peacekeeping operations, military education and any other area of cooperation which may subsequently be defined by the parties. Staff members and their dependants shall be bound by the legislation of the host party. They shall be allowed to enter and leave the territory of the receiving Party, subject to the holding of a passport and visa and prior communication of their identity to the authorities of the receiving Party. In tax matters, the tax residence of staff members and their dependants is maintained in the sending State. In addition, the sending party may import and re-export, free of customs duties and taxes, equipment intended for the exclusive use of its forces in the territory of the receiving party. In criminal matters, the agreement provides for a division of jurisdiction. Infringements committed by a member of the staff of the sending party or by a dependant thereof shall in principle fall within the jurisdiction of the courts of the receiving party. However, priority shall be given to the competent authorities of the sending party where the offence has been carried out in the course of the service or where the property or security of the sending party alone or of the personnel of the sending party has been infringed. In the case of proceedings before the courts of the host party, the person concerned shall enjoy numerous procedural guarantees for the respect of his right to a fair trial, in particular the right to be tried within a reasonable time, to be represented or assisted, to be provided with an interpreter, to communicate with a representative of his embassy, to be informed of the charges against him and not to be subject to retroactive application of the criminal law. If the prosecution results in a conviction in the receiving State, the agreement provides that the receiving State will kindly consider requests to enable the sentenced person to serve his or her sentence in the sending State. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] These are the main observations called for by the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius on cooperation in defence matters and on the status of forces, which is the subject of the draft law now proposed for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u5	The next speaker is Mr Didier Quentin, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u6	On 1 December the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a bill authorizing the approval of the agreement between France and Mauritius on cooperation in defence matters and the status of forces. This agreement, signed in 2018, provides a precise legal framework for this cooperation, in particular for the dispatch of military personnel by each State to the territory of the other State. It is now up to our assembly, in open session, to authorize the approval of this agreement. This is an opportunity to look at our relations with this friendly and partner state of the Indian Ocean of France. We must start by looking at a map because, as Napoleon said, a state does the politics of its geography. At the crossroads of Africa and Asia, Mauritius has a privileged link with India: more than half of its population has Indian origins, such as the current Prime Minister, Pravind Jugnauth, and Hinduism and the dominant religion. This proximity is reflected in India's strong investment in Mauritian defence. Many officers of the armed forces are of Indian nationality, Indian warships regularly stop at Port Louis and India has even been allowed to build maritime and air facilities in the Mauritian archipelago of Agalega. India is also Mauritius' leading economic partner, which represents an entry point to Africa. While India is therefore seen as Mauritius' mother, it still has another key partner: China, which has invested in Mauritius and has financed many infrastructure. A free trade agreement between the two countries entered into force in early 2021, allowing tariff barriers to be lifted in certain niche markets such as special sugars or tea. Mauritius, despite its status as a small island country, thus knows how to play intelligently of its geographical location. What about France in this context? Before becoming British, then independent, Maurice was French for almost a century. It was then called the island of France. Our ties are primarily cultural. One of the most famous French-language living writers, Nobel Prize laureate in literature, Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clézio, doesn't he have Mauritian origins? One of his most beautiful books is in Rodrigues, a small island east of Mauritius. France supports, through the Agence pour l'enseignement du français à l'étranger, the AEFE, a network of French schools made up of five schools with 5,000 pupils, two thirds of whom have Mauritian nationality. The city of Port-Louis plays an active role in the International Association of Francophone Mayors, IAMF. We also have a lot of academic and research exchanges. This cultural proximity is coupled with close economic exchanges. France is Mauritius' third largest trading partner, its first customer and the first provider of tourists. In the opposite direction, Mauritius is the first foreign investor in Réunion. France is also one of Mauritius' main bilateral partners in official development assistance. This cultural and economic proximity finds a political extension. France and Mauritius are members of the two main international organizations in the region: the Indian Ocean Commission and IORA, the Association of States bordering the Indian Ocean. Our political approaches are largely converging, whether it is the desire, first, to increase economic exchanges with the African continent, second, to respond to the challenges of sustainable development, third, to meet the challenges of preserving climate and of terrestrial and ocean biodiversity. What about security? An agreement on internal security cooperation was signed in 2008. A Maritime Search and Rescue Agreement was subsequently signed in 2012. More specifically, with regard to defence, France and Mauritius have been cooperating for many years. Mauritius does not have an army in its strict sense, but a police force with three components: a police force itself, special forces and a coast guard. On the French side, cooperation is essentially assumed by the FAZSOI, or armed forces of the South Indian Ocean area, stationed in La Réunion and Mayotte, whose main tasks are the protection of French nationals and the contribution to the security of the region. Our cooperation concerns the fight against terrorism and maritime security. In particular, it takes the form of joint exercises, with the aim of improving the interoperability of our armies in the fight against drug trafficking. We also train Mauritian officers. The ships of our national navy regularly stop in Mauritius and are repaired in its shipyards. In this context, what is the interest of the agreement before us? It has two types of stipulations. The first, specifically in defence, provides a framework for cooperation in the areas of training, training or logistical support. The other stipulations relate to the legal status of forces deployed in the partner State, such as entry and residence, carrying of weapons, driving licences, access to health services or tax residency. In criminal matters, there is provision for the division of courts. Thus, an offence committed by a French soldier in Mauritius will in principle fall within the jurisdiction of the Mauritian courts, and by way of exception of the French authorities when the conduct alleged has been carried out in the course of the service or has harmed the property or security of France or French personnel. It should be recalled that Mauritius does not apply the death penalty. The present agreement is therefore likely to bring great legal certainty to the presence of the French military in Mauritius as well as the Mauritian military in France. France has concluded similar agreements with many countries. The absence of this type of agreement is potentially a source of litigation. Incidents that may occur must then be dealt with on a case-by-case basis through diplomatic negotiations. This is not a school hypothesis, as the minister delegate reminded us a few minutes ago. In the early 2000s, during a stopover, a traffic accident involving a French sailor highlighted the disadvantages of this legal vacuum. Beyond strengthening legal security for the military on both sides and their families, this agreement provides a legal framework for Franco-Mauritian defence cooperation to meet the challenges that Mauritius shares with France, given its involvement in the Indian Ocean. These challenges are multiple: firstly, the monitoring and protection of our maritime spaces; Secondly, the fight against drug trafficking; thirdly, the fight against illegal fishing; Fourthly, the fight against oil spills; fifthly, the expansion of radical Islam, particularly from northern Mozambique. For all these reasons, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered it essential to approve this Agreement. However, two points of vigilance were raised during the debates in committee. First of all, while Mauritius has a constitutional and legislative framework that guarantees fundamental freedoms, it is important to continue to encourage that State, as a partner and friend, to make further progress, for example in the representation of women in positions of responsibility in the public sector, in the supervision of the financing of political parties or in the place of the press and the media, and more generally in the modernization of its political model. The second point of vigilance concerns the preservation of French sovereignty over the Scattered Islands and particularly on Tromelin Island...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u8	... located about 560 kilometres north of La Réunion. I recall that a Tromelin Economic, Scientific and Environmental Co-Management Agreement was signed in 2010. This agreement has never been ratified by France because of the opposition of many French parliamentarians of whom I was, who saw it as a first step towards the recognition of the legitimacy of Mauritian claims on this island. It seems important to warn against any attempt to reintroduce this type of agreement, and more generally against any initiative that would undermine French sovereignty over Tromelin Island and the Scattered Islands.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u9	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u10	The approval of this Agreement shall not be construed as a step towards any reconciliation on the issue of Tromelin. On the contrary, this approval must establish and strengthen the legitimacy of the French presence in the Indian Ocean.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u11	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u12	Ah! Ah! Unbelievable! Would Tromelin be worth a war?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u13	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As these points of attention have been stressed, this Defence Agreement remains a very welcome legal instrument which the Committee on Foreign Affairs has approved. That's what I'd like to invite you to now. Of course, the Republican Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u14	All right! Long live Tromelin!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u15	And the Scattered Islands!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u16	Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u17	Neighborhood by La Réunion, France has excellent bilateral relations with Mauritius. Thanks to this proximity, the sister islands of La Réunion and Mauritius have a very strong relationship, particularly with regard to cooperation. France is Mauritius' main bilateral partner in official development assistance. The French Development Agency, AFD, is Mauritius' first creditor before the African Development Bank and the second lessor to lend directly to public enterprises after China. It is essential to strengthen the bilateral relationship between France and Mauritius – already very dense, especially in the overseas departments and regions of Mayotte and La Réunion – due to the common challenges facing the two countries in the Indian Ocean, on maritime security or the ecological transition. However, the lack of a status-of-forces agreement was a hindrance to the deepening of this cooperation. After several discussion sessions that resulted in different adjustments, both parties agreed on a version that could meet their approval. A military cooperation agreement had already been concluded in 1979 in order to define the status of French military technical co-ops made available for the organization and training of the armed forces of Mauritius, but the latter had not ratified it. However, the cooperation has been significantly strengthened since 2018, with the rapprochement between Paris and New Delhi in the background. This desire to strengthen Franco-Mauritian defence cooperation was manifested by the signing, on 9 November 2018, of a declaration of intent on bilateral defence cooperation. This political commitment was aimed at reviving cooperation in the field of defence, particularly in its naval aspect, and at increasing the fight against drug trafficking and illegal fishing in the Indian Ocean. The declaration also provided for a comprehensive bilateral exercise called Phoenix. Indeed, the question remains of our presence in the Indian Ocean. The French island of Tromelin, located about 560 kilometres north of La Réunion, belongs to the district of the Éparses Islands of the Indian Ocean which is attached to the French Southern and Antarctic Lands. It is claimed by the Republic of Mauritius with, of course, the exclusive economic zone – ZEE – corresponding, but this subject is not a blocking point which could significantly harm our relationship with Mauritius, despite the expectation that France will ratify an agreement on economic, scientific and environmental co-management signed on 7 June 2010 by the French and Mauritian authorities and which is expected to last ten years. [[Sophie Mette, Frédérique Tuffnell and Michèle Peyron applaud]] Given its geographical location, Mauritius, located at the hub of Africa and the Indo-Pacific, plays an important role in the Indian Ocean. This particular place, but also a shared history and multiple cultural ties form the basis of the existing cooperation between this State and France. It is up to us to encourage and strengthen them. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u18	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u19	The Agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius on cooperation in defence matters and the status of forces was signed on 12 March 2018, on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of Mauritius' independence. This agreement is the result of negotiations initiated in 2018. Its objective is to formalize the development of cooperation in the field of defence and security and to define the principles according to which such cooperation is implemented. It is important to stress that this is the first bilateral agreement with Mauritius in the field of defence. This area concerns us very directly, because of the proximity of Mayotte and La Réunion and because it is in the heart of the Indian Ocean. Recent events – the failure of the signing of submarine contracts between France and Australia – have highlighted the strategic nature of this indo-pacific zone in which France is also represented through New Caledonia. Relations with our partners on the ground, particularly in defence, must be weighed and thought out globally. Bilateral relations are therefore very important, and this agreement contributes to this. It organises the status of defence-related civilian and military persons who stay or are in transit on the territory of our two countries, but will also strengthen maritime security, which includes the fight against trafficking and illegal fishing. As we have seen in committee, this agreement provides a broader legal framework for Franco-Mauritian cooperation aimed at meeting the challenges that France, given its involvement in the Indian Ocean, faces as much as Mauritius. These challenges are many and formidable: the monitoring and protection of our maritime areas, the fight against drug trafficking, the fight against illegal fishing, the fight against oil spills. Such a legal framework will be useful to deepen our defence cooperation in addressing these issues. To date, the implementation of bilateral cooperation with Mauritius is based on two agreements: the agreement of 13 June 2008 on cooperation in the field of internal security and the agreement on maritime search and rescue of 21 July 2011. We had to go further. [[Sophie Mette applauds]] The agreement which is subject to our consideration will strengthen the bilateral relationship between France and the Republic of Mauritius and secure ongoing cooperation actions. The IDU and independent group is of course in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u20	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u21	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u22	Geography has often made an appointment to history. That is why our group, Freedom and Territory, welcomes this bilateral agreement between France and Mauritius. This convention, however modest, will allow us to increase our presence in the Indian Ocean area and to strengthen our strategic cooperation. The Franco-Mauritian defence relationship is a bit special, due in particular to the proximity of two of our ultramarine territories, La Réunion and Mayotte. This close French presence must of course encourage us to maintain the best possible relations with our neighbours. Whoever has a good neighbor has a precious asset. The Indian Ocean area is now facing new challenges that must call for our full vigilance. I am thinking of the fight against terrorism, maritime security and the fight against drug trafficking. On the other hand, our relationship with Mauritius gradually tends to take full account of ecology. In this regard, our group takes note of the discussions that the Prime Minister and the Head of the Mauritian Government had in this regard in 2018. Let me remind you that Mauritius is particularly vulnerable to climate change. The Agence Française de Développement therefore tends to promote a sustainable development model by intervening in particular in the field of energy transition. The conventional rapprochement therefore goes in the right direction. Of course, I am pleased to see that this agreement makes it possible to fully include Mayotte and La Réunion, which welcome our armed forces in the southern area of the Indian Ocean, a sign that the State can fully trust the communities to contribute to the military influence of France. With regard to the core of the agreement, jurisdiction, I welcome the legal protection and guarantees provided to our military personnel who are called upon to carry out actions in Mauritius. The ratification of this Convention will strengthen the legal framework of our relations by a priori resolving practical and legal difficulties arising from, inter alia, dispute resolution, communication systems or overland areas. Our group, however, has some reservations about the place of India and its military in the deployment of our defence relations with Mauritius, not to mention China's very political proximity. India is more than a special partner for the island; it exercises almost a form of security guardianship. We would therefore like some clarification on this point from the minister delegate or the rapporteur. I'm a little worried about another subject. I believe it is necessary to obtain assurances from the Government regarding the preservation of our sovereignty over certain islands, in particular that of Tromelin claimed by the Republic of Mauritius. Of course, this is not the purpose of this agreement, but cooperation in defence matters should encourage us to consolidate our sovereignty. We must not go back on such an issue. Finally, our group welcomes the multidimensional aspect of this agreement, which also provides for exchanges of good processes, training, training and logistical support for Mauritian forces. For all these reasons, he will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u23	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u24	The GDR Group, through our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq, has called for a debate on this agreement, because it considers it necessary to deepen the questions relating to its content as well as its implications for international policy. I am thinking in particular of the Indo-Pacific strategy, a relatively new political construction that reflects a shift in priority issues from the great powers of the Atlantic world to these two oceans. This strategy should be taken into account because, according to the countries, it does not take on the same realities and the information mission on the indo-pacific space carried out by our colleagues Amadou and Herbillon will shed light on this. Is it an axis designed to counter China, with the United States, Australia, Japan and the British as the bridgehead? No, France, at least if we stick to official statements, has opted for an indo-pacific so-called inclusive strategy, which considers China as a partner and not an enemy. This strategy can be found in a series of agreements and cooperation – with Mauritius, as we see today, with Mozambique, Djibouti, the Comoros and Ethiopia – that reflect a rise in France's economic, diplomatic and military power on the east coast of Africa and in the Indian Ocean. Major strategic issues, particularly around trade routes, explain this. We see a growing militarization of this area of the globe to which France is contributing – the sale to Mozambique of six patrollers made in France, assault rifles in Madagascar, constant and reinforced presence in Djibouti. The agreement with Mauritius, of a classical nature in terms of force cooperation, goes in this direction. By facilitating the action of the armed forces in the southern Indian Ocean, it meets several needs, particularly in terms of the protection of our exclusive economic zone, but it goes beyond that. Mauritius is indeed at the heart of an increasingly strategic space for France. Our country has very important territories: La Réunion, Mayotte – although not recognized in international law – the French Southern and Antarctic Lands, including the Scattered Islands, which form a quasi-territorial continuity around Madagascar and at the heart of the Mozambique Canal. There are sovereignty conflicts between France, Madagascar and Mauritius in this area, as the rapporteur pointed out in his report. The island of Tromelin is thus claimed by Mauritius. In 2010, a co-management agreement between France and the Mauritian Republic could not be established because the National Assembly saw it as a potential infringement of our sovereignty. Is it planned to relaunch it? As for the Glorious Islands, they are claimed by Madagascar, which was amputated from these territories during its independence. International law is quite clear: the first UN resolution of 12 December 1979 calls on the French government to begin negotiations without further delay with the Malagasy government with a view to the reintegration of the aforementioned islands which have been arbitrarily separated from Madagascar. No steps have been taken in this direction, given the challenge of exploiting the EEZ and its current and future resources. Moreover, the cooperation proposed in the agreement is not sufficiently detailed: will contracts for the sale of arms be concluded when it enters into force? This question clearly highlights the opacity of France's military cooperation. Parliament is finally only here to endorse things, without being able to exercise its powers of control. Why is a re-visit clause not provided for so that national representation can control the way in which this agreement is translated? My last point concerns the interest of both parties in this text: if France is historically linked to Mauritius, even if only by the use of a common language, one may wonder how its action is perceived. As my colleague Moetai Brotherson did in committee, I wonder what the benefits of this agreement are for the Mauritians themselves. For all these reasons, the GDR Group will vote against this agreement, whose objectives and control procedures are not sufficiently substantiated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u25	Mrs Monica Michel-Brassart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u26	If I take the floor today on behalf of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, it is my pleasure to report this bill to the Defence Committee for its opinion. The Commission has issued an opinion in favour of its adoption, which will mark a new stage in the deepening of our defence and security cooperation with Mauritius. I will not go back to the provisions of the agreement which we are asked to approve, because they have been perfectly set out by our colleague Didier Quentin. It is one of the stones that will contribute to the strengthening of our defence and security architecture in the indo-pacific space, every day more strategic. This is reflected in the increased security and political tensions in the area, as well as various land claims, which increase the risk of regional crises emerging. I am thinking in particular of China's highly destabilizing attitude, as well as the risk of resurgence of maritime insecurity as a result of acts of piracy, particularly off the Horn of Africa. Strategic uncertainty threatens the stability of the entire region and must lead France to wonder what role it intends to play in this part of the world. There is little doubt, however, that, for our country, indo-pacific space is a major issue. First, it is for geographical reasons. With the Scattered Islands, Mayotte, La Réunion and further east, Polynesia and New Caledonia, France is present in the two oceans, the Indian and the Pacific. This widespread territorial spread, which gives our country the world's second-largest exclusive economic zone, requires the deployment of means to secure our sovereignty and protect the 1.6 million of our citizens living in these regions. If this indo-pacific space represents a particular issue, it is also because, in a bubbling context, France claims a position of power of equilibrium. That is why, in recent years, significant efforts have been made to strengthen our presence in the region's multilateral fora. I would like to remind you that France is a member of the Indian Ocean Commission, the only political organization in the South-West Indian Ocean and the only African organization of which our country is a member. She is also a member of the IORA with twenty-two other countries, from South Africa to Australia. In addition, it adopted an Indo-Pacific strategy, unveiled on 2 May 2018 by the President of the Republic. The stakes of our presence in the Indo-Pacific zone are so crucial that our Assembly has itself taken up the matter through two fact-finding missions which will shortly give their conclusions. I am honoured to have been appointed co-rapporteur of one of them and, for me, who was born in Seychelles, it is a real pride to work on defence issues in the region. It is in this context that the strengthening of our cooperation with Mauritius takes place. Why Maurice? At first glance, some might be surprised by this strategic rapprochement. However, defence cooperation between our two countries is important. It is even almost inversely proportional to the size of the country. In the field of defence, our cooperation activities are mainly carried out by the armed forces of the southern Indian Ocean area, stationed in La Réunion. Operationally, they include combating terrorism, enhancing interoperability in all three areas and improving maritime security. We also co-organize many regional joint exercises, such as Papangue in 2018 in La Réunion or, since then, Phoenix exercises on the fight against drug trafficking or Varatraza, conducted jointly with Malagasy, Seychellois and Comorian forces. In fact, I believe it is essential to continue to strengthen our relations with the countries of the subregion, taking advantage of our Djibouti-Mayotte axis - La Réunion because, from the Somali coast to the Mozambique Canal, the western part of the Indo-Pacific space sometimes has everything from a powderbox which, if poorly publicized, must lead us to the greatest vigilance. [[Michèle Peyron applauds]] As you will understand, colleagues, my group will support the passage of this bill, and I invite the whole of our chamber to do the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u27	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u28	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u29	Our relationship with the Republic of Mauritius is old and rich because of our common history, linked to colonization, but also because of the relative proximity we maintain with this country, thanks to the overseas department of La Réunion and the community of Mayotte. Our assembly has a France-Maurice friendship group and we very much hope that our Mauritian parliamentary friends, by reciprocity, will create a Mauritius-France friendship group. The challenges facing the Indian Ocean are increasing, both in terms of maritime safety and environmental issues, and this context invites us to strengthen bilateral cooperation. Because of its geographical location, at the crossroads of Africa and the Indo-Pacific zone, Mauritius plays a particularly important role in the Indian Ocean. It also has strategic links with different States. Mauritius thus bears witness to privileged exchanges with India, which is its first economic partner. Recall here that a large part of its population has Indian origins, and Hinduism is the majority religion on the island. Similarly, while its relations with China are less close, they remain important. As for the cooperation we have with this country, it is already dense, particularly in the field of defence, particularly with regard to the maritime aspect. It has been strengthened in recent years by the signing of two agreements: one in 2008 on cooperation in the field of internal security; the other, in 2012, relating to maritime search and rescue. Both helped to intensify relations between the French armed forces, including the armed forces in the southern Indian Ocean and the FRMs. For more than 15 years, bilateral cooperation activities have therefore been organized annually to train the Mauritian military, but also to carry out joint actions in our respective exclusive economic zones. Let us recall here that the Mauritian security forces regularly participate in the regional exercises carried out by our armed forces in the Indian Ocean. This dynamic is the right one and must continue, especially in view of the international threats that may transit through Mauritius. This is why operational cooperation is also intensifying, with the main result being capacity-building in the fight against terrorism and improved interoperability. Can you tell us, Mr rapporteur, whether it is envisaged to develop lines of cooperation with the Republic of Mauritius in the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking? If we wish to go further in defence cooperation with the Republic of Mauritius, we must guarantee legal coverage to the French forces when they are deployed on Mauritian territory. Indeed, as has been pointed out, a vehicle accident has already occurred in 2001, and if it was fortunately benign, it is necessary to provide a protective legal framework for our military at a time when defence cooperation with Mauritius is strengthening. If we want it to be based on a solid foundation, it requires that such precautions be taken, and that is what the agreement under discussion today provides for. Signed on March 12, 2018 on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of Mauritius' independence and the visit of Secretary of State Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne to Port-Louis, this agreement provides particularly useful provisions to bring all the required legal security to the presence of our military personnel on site and to strengthen our defence cooperation. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group supports the adoption of this text, which contributes to the security of our armed forces in the framework of cooperation with Mauritius.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u30	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u31	Mr. Deputy Minister, you will allow me to improvise. There was a time when, in the National Assembly, we were speaking freely instead of reading the notes prepared by brilliant collaborators: we should come back, even if I would then, no doubt, be a less good speaker than the others. France and Mauritius, ancient "Isle de France", have a beautiful common history. We are also fortunate that our successive governments have shown real talent in our relations with India, which we have come close to – as the rapporteur knows – at a time when many other states were completely unaware of it. After India and China, France is the third largest financial partner in the Republic of Mauritius. Another exceptional opportunity is the Francophonie, to which Mauritius – as well as the left-wing Gaullist I am – remains very attached. We are given the opportunity to authorize the approval of a legitimate agreement. It was time for it to be concluded: during the last three quinquennats, our ties with India have become significantly strengthened, so that in turn, our relations with Mauritius became essential. However, there is still a shadow in the picture, as evidenced by the planisphere at the disposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: Tromelin Island, probably forgotten during the period of independence. A few months ago, the French forces arrested Japanese vessels that were engaged in industrial fishing in its vicinity. Deputy Minister, I would be very grateful if you could tell me who is licensed to fish in Tromelin's waters: that no one in this case would be worse for sustainable development, given the huge fish reserves involved. On the contrary, I do not think that many French fishing boats venture to Tromelin. However, the sovereignty of Mauritius is always contested by us: are we the owners or not? The island has three inhabitants a year – meteorologists – to say that they certainly do not have a military parachute certificate and would not resist any invasion for long. The Falklands, next door, it'd be fun! However, this island exists in our universe, even if it does not contain metals or rare earths, even if it has, I repeat, only fish to offer. Another major problem is that of human rights,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u32	I would like to interrupt you with an announcement that concerns you: on the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialist and Related Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. You can now finish your remarks, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u33	The problem of human rights, I said, will not be resolved immediately, since the death penalty is included in Mauritian law; However, it is subject to a moratorium, which I hope will allow us to manage without too much harm. For all these reasons, the Socialist and related group will abstain from voting on this text, which is an overall step forward, but calls for some reservations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u34	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u35	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u36	I was late in receiving the request for a public ballot: that is why, with your consent, and in order not to waste time, we will not wait the five minutes required between the announcement and the vote. I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u37	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 29 Number of votes cast 29 Absolute majority 15 For adoption 28 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u38	The next item is the discussion of the draft law authorizing the approval of the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the State of Qatar on the status of their forces (No. 4324, 4755).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u39	The next speaker is the Minister for Foreign Trade and Attractiveness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u40	I submit for your consideration the bill to authorize the approval of the agreement signed in Doha on November 24, 2019. For France, Qatar is a strategic partner with which it has built strong ties, both in the economic and cultural fields and in defence. Our military cooperation, particularly strong, is reflected in the training activities of the Qatari forces and in joint exercises, some of which involve our forces stationed in the United Arab Emirates. As part of the fight against terrorism in the Levant, some 20 French military personnel are deployed on the American base at Al-Udeid. Qatar is also one of the main importers of French military equipment. Finally, this cooperation extends to securing events of international scope: in 2019, France undertook, at the request of the Qatari authorities, to accompany the organisation of the 2022 World Cup of Football. During this competition, it will deploy personnel and equipment; It will also support Qatar in the area of aviation security and anti-drones. However, in order to ensure the legal security of military personnel visiting Qatar, approval of the agreement was essential: in his absence, French personnel were subject to local law, which exposed him to significant risks, since the death penalty was still in force in that State.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u41	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u42	This status-of-forces agreement, resulting from several years of work and exchanges, is the first signed with a Gulf State that includes a jurisdiction-sharing clause in accordance with our constitutional and treaty requirements, providing our military with a protective legal framework. Written on the basis of reciprocity, based on the traditional clauses contained in similar agreements concluded by our country, it determines the legal status and conditions of the stay of French personnel deployed in Qatar, as well as those of Qatari personnel deployed in France in the framework of cooperation activities in the field of defence. Under the agreement, both staff members and their dependants are bound by the legislation of the host party; They shall have the right to enter and leave the territory of the host State, subject to holding passports and visas, and prior notification of their identity to the authorities of the host State. The sending party shall pay the costs of its activities in the host State; in case of necessity or urgency, medical procedures, as well as evacuations, shall be free of charge. The tax residence of staff members and their dependants shall remain in the sending State, which may also import and re-export, free of customs duties and taxes, equipment intended for the exclusive use of its forces in the territory of the receiving Party. In criminal matters, I repeat, the agreement provides for a division of jurisdiction. Infringements committed by a member of the staff of the sending party, or by a dependant thereof, shall in principle fall within the jurisdiction of the host party's courts; the competent authorities of the sending party shall, however, have priority over the competent authorities of the sending party where the infringement has been carried out within the framework of the service, or where the property or security of the sending party alone or of the personnel of the sending party has been infringed. In the case of proceedings before the courts of the receiving party, the person concerned shall be guaranteed a fair trial, in particular with regard to his right to be tried within a reasonable time, to be represented or assisted, to be provided with an interpreter, to communicate with a representative of his embassy, to be informed of the charges against him and not to be subject to retroactive penal provisions. If the prosecution results in a conviction in the receiving State, the agreement provides that the receiving State will kindly consider requests to enable the sentenced person to serve his or her sentence in the sending State. If the offence is punishable by the death penalty or by a penalty contrary to the commitments resulting from the international conventions to which one of the parties accedes, the latter shall give the accused person to the other only in return for the assurance that such penalties will not be required or imposed, or at least that they will not be carried out. It was essential that the agreement preclude any possibility of the application of the death penalty or inhuman or degrading treatment, both to a French citizen who had committed an offence in Qatar and to a Qatari who had committed an offence in France and who would be demanded by the authorities of his country. That is why France has included in the agreement this jurisdictional clause, which once again complies with our constitutional and treaty requirements. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups as well as on a few benches of the Agir ens group]] These are, ladies and gentlemen, the main observations called for by the agreement between the Government of the French Republic and the Government of the State of Qatar on the status of their forces, which is the subject of the bill before you for your approval.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u43	On the vote on the single clause of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Socialists and Related Groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is Mr Didier Quentin, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u44	[[Mr. Christian Hutin smiles]] At the risk of displeasing my dear colleague and friend Christian Hutin, I will read out the report – which is not only due to the administrator, otherwise excellent! On 1 December 2021 the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted a bill authorizing the approval of an agreement between France and Qatar on the status of their forces. This agreement, signed in 2019, aims to provide the required legal security for the sending of our military personnel to Qatar and thus strengthen our defence cooperation with that country. It is now up to our assembly, sitting in open session, to authorize the approval of this agreement. This is an opportunity for us to take stock of Qatar's geopolitical positioning as well as the state of Franco-Qatarian relations, particularly in the field of defence. What characterizes Qatar's foreign policy above all is a desire for independence, particularly with regard to the other Gulf monarchies. This desire for autonomy, which resulted in the creation of the Al Jazeera channel and support for movements emerging from political Islam during the Arab spring, led to a serious regional crisis from June 2017 to January 2021. Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt then broke their diplomatic relations with Qatar and organized the country's blockade. During this crisis, Qatar was able to count on the support of Turkey, but also that of Iran, with which it continues to maintain good-neighbourly relations today. This regional crisis is now in the process of appeasement. In addition, Qatar is a mediator in relations with the Taliban, whose presence, with the permission of the United States, has been in Doha since 2014. It has established military partnerships with Turkey and Italy. It also has a very close defence relationship with the United States, manifested by the presence in Al-Udeid of the largest American military base in the world outside American territory – which is not always known. What about France? Our two countries have maintained relations since Qatar's declaration of independence in 1971 and the cross-opening of diplomatic representations in 1972. Our bilateral cooperation has increased in recent years, both economically and culturally. One can mention, for example, the contract for the maintenance and operation of the Doha metro, won by two French operators, the accompaniment provided by France at the fifteenth Asian Games held in Doha in 2006 or the France-Qatar cultural year of 2020. In terms of defence, Qatar is one of the main importers of French weapons, including Rafale aircraft. Qatar participates in joint operations with France, for example in the framework of Operation Barkhane. Twenty-five French soldiers are also deployed on Al-Udeid's base as part of the coalition against Daesh. In this context, what is the interest of the agreement before us? It provides, above all, legal security for the sending of military personnel by France to Qatar, and vice versa. Two fundamental obligations are laid down. First of all, the host party may not involve a member of the staff of the sending party in an activity outside its territory, unless previously agreed. Second, members of the staff of the sending party, as well as their dependants, are bound by the legislation of the receiving party. Furthermore, the legal status of the forces deployed in the partner State, including entry and residence, the carrying of weapons, driving licences, access to health services and tax residence, is being monitored. In criminal matters, a division of jurisdiction is provided for. An offence committed by a French soldier in Qatar will thus, in principle, fall within the jurisdiction of the Qatari courts, and only by way of exception of the French authorities when the charges have taken place within the framework of the service or have harmed the property or security of France or French personnel. In the event of proceedings before the courts of the host party, the person concerned shall enjoy guarantees of the right to a fair trial. It is known that the death penalty is still in force in Qatar.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u45	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u46	Executions have been the subject of a moratorium since 2003, but there was an exception in 2020. For this reason, France insisted on the inclusion of a clause excluding any possibility of the application of the death penalty or inhuman or degrading treatment, both against a French citizen who had committed an offence in Qatar and against a Qatari citizen who had committed an offence in France and whose surrender Qatar would request. The present agreement will therefore provide full protection to our forces and also to the Qatari military who will visit our territory. Beyond strengthening the legal security of the military on both sides and their families, this agreement provides a framework for Franco-Qatarian defence cooperation, in order to meet the common challenges faced by the two countries, particularly in the fight against terrorism. Qatar is indeed a strategic partner, not only because of its geographical position, but also because of its now more peaceful relations with its neighbours, because of its role as mediator with the Taliban and because of its partnerships with actors as diverse as the United States, Turkey and Iran. The consolidation of our cooperation seems all the more necessary as it is called upon to invest a new field with Qatar's organisation of the 2022 World Cup. France has agreed to help ensure the safety of the event: it sees an opportunity to strengthen its experience, with a view to organising the World Rugby Cup in 2023 and the Summer Olympics in 2024. French assistance will involve the deployment of personnel, in particular a Joint Liaison Officer and a team of Joint Operations Command Advisors. It will also involve the deployment of equipment, in particular an anti-drones control system and an AWACS radar aircraft – Airborne Warning and Control System –...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u47	American!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u48	... for the protection of stadiums. These are the reasons why the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it essential to approve this agreement, both in order to deepen the Franco-Qatarian contribution to the security of Qatar and the region and to provide all the necessary legal security, in particular to the French soldiers who are to stay in Qatar. That said, the entry into force of the agreement will have to be accompanied, as we have pointed out in committee, by the continuation of a political dialogue with Qatar concerning the human rights situation. Not that it deteriorates; On the contrary, undeniable progress has been made in recent years. Qatar was the first country in the region to repeal the so-called kafala system, which requires foreign workers to temporarily hand over their passports to their employers. It had also been the first to introduce a mandatory minimum wage, to abolish the requirement for an exit visa to leave Qatar, to allow workers to change jobs without having to obtain the prior consent of their employer and to provide free medical follow-up to all employees working in Qatar. Qatar is also the Gulf country with the highest female employment rate. There are women in decision-making positions in many sectors: the evacuation team from Afghanistan or the decision-making chain to respond to the health crisis are almost entirely female, and three ministers are women. However, Qatar still has a long way to go to reach the standards that France defends,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u49	That's for sure!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u50	...in particular with regard to freedom of expression and opinion, freedom of association, freedom of the press and, of course, criminal law. The working conditions on the football World Cup sites also raise questions. The International Labour Organization (ILO) published last November a report on work-related deaths and injuries in Qatar, the field of which is beyond the scope of the World Cup. Thus, 50 workers lost their lives in Qatar in 2020; slightly more than 500 were seriously injured and 37,600 sustained minor to moderate injuries in their work. Most of the victims are migrant workers from Bangladesh, India and Nepal. Falling heights and road accidents are the main causes of serious injuries, followed by falling objects on construction sites. It should be noted that ILO has worked with key institutions in Qatar to collect and analyse this data. France has made the choice – rightly, I believe – to cooperate and dialogue with Qatar. It is because France and other countries have maintained a close and regular dialogue with that country that the progress referred to above has been achieved. With regard to this agreement, the refusal to authorize its approval would seem to bring no added value to human rights in Qatar, while weakening the legal status of our military personnel on the spot and hindering France's efforts to contribute to the security of the region. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Sophie Mette also applauds]] It is in the light of these elements that the Committee on Foreign Affairs adopted the bill authorizing such approval – which does not imply in any way abandoning a detailed dialogue with Qatar on the human rights situation, in particular on respect for the rights of workers and migrants. It is in this spirit that I would like to invite you to vote for this bill that the Republicans will vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u51	In the general debate, Mrs Aina Kuric has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u52	As a result of negotiations that began in 2015, the bill authorizing the approval of the agreement between France and Qatar on the status of their forces attests to the powerful relations between Qatar and France since the declaration of independence of the country in 1971 and the opening of diplomatic representations in the following year. This agreement was signed on 25 November 2019 as part of a visit by the Minister of Armed Forces, Ms Florence Parly, to Doha. With regard to the status of the forces, this is the first agreement signed with a Gulf State that includes a jurisdiction clause in accordance with our constitutional and treaty requirements. It also contains particularly useful stipulations, which will provide all the legal security required for the presence of our military personnel in Qatar and strengthen our defence cooperation with this strategic actor in a region under stress. The Franco-Qatarian defence relationship was greatly strengthened in the aftermath of the Second Gulf War. Although Qatar has endeavoured since 2015, and even more so after 2017, to diversify its partnerships with Italy and Turkey in particular, it continues to give France a reference place, whose know-how it recognizes. Qatar is also a client of the Defense International Advisory Company (DCI), an operator of the Ministry of Armed Forces, which carries out numerous training services for the emirate: reception of cadets in the course for foreign officers of the Brest Naval School, support for training in the Qatar Air Force Academy, specialized training. In addition to military cooperation, there is long-standing cooperation between France and Qatar in the area of internal security, particularly in the planning and conduct of major events. It is historically based on an established partnership between the national gendarmerie and the Qatari internal security force. Moreover, Qatar's desire to diversify the country's economy and reduce its dependence on gas rent has allowed us to extend the spectrum of our cooperation to many economic sectors – in the area of infrastructure with the Doha metro, or even of aeronautics – but also to the cultural sectors, with Qatar Museums Authority, or even education. While Doha is anxious to balance its partnerships, France is the subject of a particularly strong demand for cooperation. In the area of higher education and research, Qataris have invited several major international academic institutions to set up an outsourced branch in their education city, Education City. In particular, the École des hautes études commerciales (HEC) in Paris celebrated its ten years of presence in 2020. However, this relationship of trust cannot relieve us of a duty of vigilance vis-à-vis our partner, in particular as regards respect for the rights of migrant workers or women's rights, in accordance with Sustainable Development Goals 8 and 5. Although improvements have recently been included in the law of the emirate, their impact is still too weak on the ground. The Group of the European People's Party will, however, support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u53	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u54	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u55	Some here claim that the only purpose of this text is to provide protection to our military, which is enough to say the strength of our positions in this area, alas. I have not forgotten the positive role Qatar played in Operation Barkhane. Unfortunately, to put it clearly – I almost forgot my notes like my socialist colleague, but I would prefer to stick to them, in order not to risk going any further than my thought, which is already going far enough – we are talking about a country that continues to discriminate against certain categories of its population, especially women, which persists in inflicting inhuman punishment and treatment, and of course the death penalty, theoretically suspended, which does not prevent it from being used when it is necessary. I do not understand that France, which has carried so high the defence of human rights, is ready to close its eyes and set aside its values. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you have referred in committee to the economic interests that should prompt us to go to Qatar. France has recently completed the sale of twelve Rafale and fifty Airbus A321, for a total of 12 billion euros. Qatar, of course, as everyone knows, is white as snow in the tragedies of terrorism that our country has suffered. However, these strategic contracts and sales must not lead us to deny ourselves. The purpose of the agreement that the bill deals with is to frame defence relations between our two countries and to provide legal certainty to our forces, all in preparation for a specific event: the holding of the 2022 World Cup – the heart of the agreement – in a big country like Île-de-France, which wants to make the event its very great project for the third millennium. I had already had the opportunity in 2021 to alert about the scandal of the organization of the World Cup in Qatar by asking a topical question, and I had not been impressed by the answer I had received. I will not go back to the accusations of corruption surrounding his attribution to Qatar,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u56	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u57	...and the late and very serious questioning of some of our greatest athletes, who don't deserve so much on the evening of their lives. I would like to recall one figure: 6500, the number of workers who have died on this site since 2010. As the macabre detail has already been given, I will not go any further. Deputy Minister, I understand your objective, which is to secure the status of our soldiers. In particular, I note the establishment of a jurisdiction clause in accordance with our constitutional requirements. However, certain provisions of the agreement do not allow us to give you a white-seing. In essence, the freedom and territory group's main reserve lies in the protection of our soldiers and their dependants. The question of the death penalty should not be obscured. How can we sign this? We are sending our soldiers to Qatar, so we are helping. It does not seem acceptable that a country that we are about to support militarily during this World Cup reserves the right to impose death sentences on some of our fellow citizens. On the other hand, this agreement does not address certain key issues. At a time when the fight against global warming is being made a priority, who will be expected to believe that the air conditioning of two stages built in the middle of the desert by temperatures of 40 degrees will help to lower the carbon level? This is the first World Cup I won't watch. I'm hurting my country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u59	However, I wish the best possible fate to our beautiful team in France,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u60	We're reassured!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u61	... football world champion, coach and captain. Despite everything, what a shame for our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u62	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u63	This agreement is not just a text that would make it possible to secure the presence of French soldiers in Qatar or Qatari soldiers in France. It goes much further by providing for close cooperation between our armed forces, in the continuity of our alliance with that country. On many occasions, advances in respect for human rights in Qatar have been highlighted to promote this agreement, and more generally the diplomatic and commercial relationship with that State, particularly in the report of the committee on the bill authorizing the approval of the text. We are talking about a moratorium on the death penalty, but it is still in force – a Nepalese was executed as such in 2020. It was pointed out that women had somewhat greater rights than in neighbouring countries. The report cites the presence of three women in government and two in parliament. But why does he not mention that the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention denounces the fact that women under the age of 25 need the permission of their male guardian to engage in certain activities of everyday life, such as signing a contract, or to leave the country? Qatari family law remains a right of submission for women. If you want a dialogue with Qatar "lucid and demanding" on human rights, all these elements must be indicated. Similarly, if the situation of foreign workers is actually improving, thanks to the end of the iniquitous kafala system and the authorization to change jobs, it should be pointed out that they were in a situation of quasi-slavery. Once again, it would have been appropriate to present things in a comprehensive manner, for example by mentioning that the UN Special Rapporteur on Racism expressed great concern about "structural discrimination against non-citizens" and called on the government to take urgent action to dismantle the "de facto caste system based on national origin", or that Amnesty International is sending us the testimonies of exploited and threatened foreigners, and that in fact the system still applies to many workers, without omitting inhuman working conditions on World Cup construction sites: several hundred dead and injured, according to NGOs – non-governmental organisations – people piled up in dormitories, low wages paid with months of delay. According to the parliamentary report, these subjects "also pose a question": that is the least we can say! I did not call for the boycott of this World Cup, the question being the conditions for the allocation of major sporting events. Are States ever going, as they have done in the fight against doping, to ask the International Olympic Committee to appoint an agency bringing together representatives of the international sports movement and States to allocate these events on a basis that takes into account respect for human rights and the objectives of sustainable development, which is not quite the case with the stadiums built in Qatar? Should we sign a security partnership for the 2022 World Cup? That doesn't seem obvious to me. Therefore, if the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left does not advocate a break in relations with Qatar, it denounces a partial presentation of the facts with the aim of having us ratify an agreement of such importance. We are quick to vote on resolutions to rightly condemn the Belarusian regime and its unacceptable violations of fundamental rights and, fifteen days later, you are asking us to sign an agreement with Qatar, explaining how the country is evolving or how the sharing of our sensitive information is an excellent idea, just as it was with Egypt – we have seen the result. Respect for human rights must not be treated with varying geometry in our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u64	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u65	It is not to deny the complexity of international relations or to set aside our country's strategic interests that we should say that. This is even the exact opposite because French diplomacy is weakened when it loses what makes its singularity: the determined defence of human rights. Communist MEPs and the GDR Group will vote against this agreement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u66	Mrs Natalia Pouzyreff has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u67	Allow me to speak not only on behalf of the Republic on the move but also as draftsman of the Defence Committee's opinion on this bill authorizing the approval of the agreement between France and Qatar on the status of their forces. The agreement we are examining relates to the status of forces, more often referred to as SOFA, for Status of Forces Agreement. These agreements define the law applicable to our military personnel on the foreign soil of a State Party and vice versa. They are perfectly integrated into the practice of the Ministry of Armed Forces and are quite customary since France is bound by eighty bilateral SOFAs and three multilateral SOFAs. The special feature of this SOFA is that it is the first status-of-forces agreement containing a jurisdictional clause in accordance with our constitutional and treaty requirements, signed with a Gulf State. This is a first that we can only congratulate ourselves on. It provides a particularly protective legal framework for French personnel deployed in Qatari territory, who, in the absence of a status-of-forces agreement, are subject to the laws in force within the State of Qatar and thus potentially exposed to local jurisdiction. This could apply, for example, in the event of a road accident caused by one of our soldiers and causing the death of a person. Article 11 of the Agreement in particular contains clauses on the guarantee of non-application of the death penalty and inhuman and degrading treatment, as defined by the European Convention on Human Rights. More specifically, it states that such sentences shall not be required or imposed, and that if imposed, they shall not be applied. This triptych, based on the jurisprudence of the Council of State, offers optimal security for our military and their families. Today, approximately twenty-five French personnel are deployed on the American base of Al-Udeid in Qatar, as part of Operation Inherent Resolve to fight terrorism in the Levant, whose operation Hammal is the French contribution. The bilateral relationship between France and Qatar is particularly evident in the field of defence and sport. As early as 2006, France had accompanied Qatar in securing the fifteenth Asian Games. She made a similar commitment to secure the World Cup in 2022. On this occasion, our intervention should mobilize several dozen military personnel for about one month, in order to cover several areas. First, the French presence will be part of a policy of advice and assistance to the Qatari authorities; Second, the deployment of air defence assets by the Air and Space Force will contribute to the monitoring of airspace with the use of an AWACS radar aircraft; Finally, small low-altitude drone control devices will also be positioned at certain stages. These state-of-the-art systems can be used in operational situations, which will undoubtedly be a useful experience in the run-up to the Rugby World Cup in France in 2023 and the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2024. I am aware of the criticisms expressed about the holding of the World Cup in Qatar, particularly with regard to the working conditions of the foreign labour force. However, this is not the purpose or the substance of this bill...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u68	Maybe, but it's still a reality in Qatar!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem group]] ... which, I would remind you, aims to provide a protective legal regime for our soldiers on mission. That is why I urge you to adopt this text authorizing the approval of the agreement signed between our two governments in November 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u70	Mrs Frédérique Tuffnell has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u71	The status-of-forces agreement signed in November 2019 between the French Government and the State of Qatar marks a new step forward alongside a country with which we have long-standing and deep relations. Indeed, it was only one year after Qatar's declaration of independence in 1971 that we jointly decided to open diplomatic representations. This relationship developed throughout the 1990s through cooperation in the field of security and hydrocarbons. The agreement before us today is timely, as it responds to the urgent need to provide a protective legal framework for our soldiers deployed on Qatari territory, at a time when relations between our two countries tend to develop rapidly, particularly in the field of defence. Indeed, while cooperation with Qatar had already greatly strengthened in recent years, the 2017 Gulf crisis helped to accelerate this momentum. This is due to the country's new willingness to pursue an autonomous policy in the region, by greatly improving its relations with Turkey, Iran and the United States. This new postulate, which resulted in a breakdown of diplomatic relations between Qatar, on the one hand, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, on the other hand, has been beneficial to us as it has resulted in an intensification of our relations with Doha. France has thus been able to establish partnerships with Qatar, both in the economic, cultural and defence fields. This rapprochement was illustrated by numerous meetings – including the visit of the President of the Republic to Qatar in December 2017 – and by the acceleration of already significant bilateral military cooperation. As such, Qatar is one of the leading importers of French weapons, a position that tends to persist, according to the contracts concluded in 2015 and 2017, under which Doha acquired no less than 36 Rafale aircraft. Military cooperation is reflected in training activities for Qatari soldiers but also in joint exercises. It is expected to strengthen in the near future with the 2022 World Cup and Qatari participation in joint operations, notably in the framework of Operation Barkhane. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] As early as September 2015, negotiations were initiated to provide a legal framework for the defence relationship between our two countries. In this context, the agreement that is the subject of the bill under consideration was imperative in order to ensure the safety of French personnel deployed in Qatar. Without it, the latter would be subject to the jurisdiction of a territory where the death penalty is still in force. Despite differences on the provisions on guarantees of non-application of the death penalty and inhuman and degrading treatment, the negotiations finally concluded in November 2019 with the signing of a status-of-forces agreement. Considering that it makes it possible to secure the deployment of our military personnel on Qatari soil and to strengthen our defence cooperation with this strategic actor in a region under stress, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats is in favour of its adoption.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u72	Mr Christian Hutin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u73	Mr President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, how happy to have you with us! We carried out a mission to Lebanon a few days ago...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u74	You were there!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u75	... during which you were, dear Jean-Louis, brilliant – I would like to say so – just like Didier Quentin, a high-quality diplomat. On the occasion of this trip, we honoured France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u76	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u77	Forgive me, Minister Delegate, but I had to point it out because they are brilliant people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u78	You're all excused!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u79	The agreement with Qatar we are discussing today is probably the most important text of the day. Marielle de Sarnez, like you, Mr President, has managed to restore some kind of reputation, if I may say so, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which allows us to refer to foreign affairs in the Chamber. It would be a horror not to do it! We can be very proud of it, even if the path is sometimes long: but a little thing can become very important. In this respect, I think we are all on the benches – apart from a few exceptions – on the same line. Let's go back to Qatar. So many conventions dragged before they were ratified! The approval of this agreement is quick and legitimate, due to the upcoming organization of the Qatar World Cup, which France will help secure. No one can dispute it. It is up to us to support Qatar. This does not mean that we have to sign conventions in gusts,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u80	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u81	...– thirty-six: that's a figure I like, like 1936. Qatar was a little away from the countries of the Middle East: we have rightly supported it, and it has returned it to us. Nevertheless, real difficulties remain, let us say clearly: 50 workers died and 5000 were seriously injured in industrial accidents during the construction of the stadiums. I was a doctor of Dunkirk's football team for a few years – Alex Dupont who unfortunately died was one of my best friends. We have experienced these great events. But we cannot deny that there is a small problem of democracy in Qatar...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u82	Very small! Riquiqui!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u83	... a real problem of human rights and women's rights. Let's not neglect him! Nevertheless, we must go to the end of the agreement that has been signed. The second complaint that I will make – perhaps you will answer me, minister delegate – is that the text of the convention, which I have read carefully, does not concern internal security. Parliament should be allowed to vote on both internal and external security issues. Internal security is completely absent from this text, which is not the case, for example, with the agreement signed with the Republic of Mauritius. So there is double standards. That is why the members of the Socialist and related group – the Chevenmentist I am – remain dubative, while being positively interested. I have not yet mentioned the issue of sustainable development. But let's be serious! Football matches are not organised in a stadium with an air conditioning system. That's not possible! We must also highlight the corruption of the time, which allowed characters – including our republican country – to receive 1 million euros to defend Qatar's candidacy! I know a number of them. That is why, in view of our idea of the Republic and of humanity, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u84	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u85	The IDU and independent group will vote in favour of this bill authorizing the approval of the agreement between France and Qatar on the status of their military forces. We will vote for it because it is part of an already ancient historical context, dating back to 1972, of friendship and cooperation between our two countries, of relations which have developed and are still developing not only in commercial or military terms, but also in cultural and educational terms. As chairman of the France-Qatar friendship group of our assembly, I can testify to Qatar's commitment to the development of education and to its willingness to promote the Franco-Qatar education system in its territory. Of course, there are many criticisms, often strong, against this small State of the Persian Gulf, which we have a duty of vigilance towards. It would be difficult to describe the Gulf State as a democratic regime in view of its historic construction, but that did not prevent it from fostering democratic demands on human rights and women's rights in particular. I would like colleagues who express their indignation at the Qatari situation to show the same level of demand in the cooperation relations that France has with other countries – I am thinking in particular of the other States of the Persian Gulf. In fact, which country, apart from Qatar, has put an end to kafala, a system that allows the employer to keep the civil registration documents and passport of a foreign worker to ensure that he does not leave the country? No other Gulf State has so far abolished it. Which other Gulf state, within the equivalent of Parliament – the Choura – has established an elected system? None. If we can regret that, among the twenty-eight candidates competing in the first elections, only one was elected, it is nevertheless the sign of appropriation, including by Qatari society, of this democratic fact that it is our duty to encourage – hoping that it will try in the other states of the Persian Gulf, which is not yet the case. As for the December World Cup in Qatar, we can obviously wonder whether, from an environmental point of view, it was appropriate to entrust its organisation to a state in a region where climate conditions are not appropriate for such an event.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u86	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u87	However, once the international community had accepted that choice, what reasons would justify challenging it? While we can discuss the conditions under which the decision was taken, now that it is being taken, France's mission, like other countries, is to cooperate and contribute to ensuring that the organisation is the best possible and most in line with our requirements, including with regard to environmental protection. The State of Qatar, which is still living from its gas resource, is also developing the production of renewable energy – in particular solar energy during the construction of a number of public and private buildings. It should be pointed out, in order not to stick to the somewhat truncated image of a state that does not care at all about environmental issues. For all these reasons, let us be careful not to give in, as is all too often the case, to the ease of Qatar-Bashing: our Qatari partners are often bruised and do not understand why it persists, while they make a number of efforts that deserve to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u88	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u89	I now call, in the text of the commission, the single clause of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u90	I put to the vote the single clause in the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u91	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 35 Absolute majority 18 For adoption 32 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u92	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, under Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of two bills authorizing the approval or ratification of international conventions (No 4696, 4914; 4789, 4919). As these texts have not been the subject of any amendment, I shall put each of them directly to the vote, pursuant to Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-27-O1138.u93	Next sitting, Monday, January 31, 2022, at 4 p.m.: Debate on the future of the aviation sector; Debate on mal-housing. The meeting is adjourned.
