ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u1	Pursuant to Article L.O. 185 of the Electoral Code, the President of the National Assembly received from the Constitutional Council a decision cancelling the legislative election of 30 May and 6 June 2021 in the fifteenth district of Paris, following which Ms. Lamia El Aaraje had been declared elected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u2	The President of the National Assembly received a letter from Bruno Bonnell, Member of Parliament for the sixth constituency of the Rhône, informing him that he was dedicating his term as a Member of Parliament. Act was taken from his resignation in the Official Journal of Sunday 30 January 2022. In addition, the President received letters from Mr. Laurent Garcia, Member of Parliament for the second riding of Meurthe-et-Moselle, and Ms. Frédérique Lardet, Member of Parliament for the second riding of Haute-Savoie, informing him that they were resigning their term of office as MP as of Saturday, January 29, 2022. By communications dated Tuesday 25 January 2022, the Minister of the Interior informed him that Mr. Laurent Garcia and Mrs. Frédérique Lardet were respectively replaced, until the renewal of the National Assembly, by Mrs. Pascale César and by Mr. Jacques Rey, elected together with them for that purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u3	The next item is the debate on the future of the aviation sector. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u4	"Man must rise above the earth, at the limits of the atmosphere and beyond, so that only he can fully understand the world in which he lives. Socrates did not witness the advent of this fabulous invention of the plane, but he already perceived its richness. Freed from gravity, man has borrowed the air to discover other cultures and other ways of life. History has repeatedly demonstrated in humanitarian crises, in particular, how it can benefit from this essential vector of peace and openness. The fight against global warming and the historic decline in air traffic over the last two years, due to the covid-19 pandemic, however, lead us to wonder today about the future of the aviation sector. One of the first, and not the least, challenges this sector will face is decarbonation. As you know, the industry has not waited for certain legislative provisions to reduce its carbon footprint. Over the past 30 years, the various progress made in this area has already led to a two-fold division of the consumption of kerosene per passenger and per kilometre and the associated CO emissions. But we have to go further and faster. The mission of informing us about the future of the aeronautical sector, entrusted to Jean-Luc Lagleize, whom I am a friendly greeting, and myself, was precisely to examine the conditions of this ecological transition and to deepen various avenues. The first lever of decarbonisation on which I would like to insist, Mr Minister responsible for transport, is the renewal of the fleets. Aircraft manufacturers have built new generations of aircraft that allow significant progress both in environmental terms – they consume 15% to 25% less fuel and therefore reduce their CO emissions – and in noise pollution. These performances reflect several technical advances, including the aircraft's engine and the aircraft's lightening thanks to composite materials. For these innovations to have an effect on CO emissions, it is essential that airlines equip themselves with such aircraft and that incentive mechanisms be introduced for fleet renewal. I therefore regret that the amendments that Jean-Luc Lagleize and I tabled on the 2022 finance bill (PLF), which were intended to create an over-amortization mechanism for fleet renewal, were rejected. Another interesting route would be to introduce environmental criteria in public service delegations to which certain air routes are subject in order to favour cleaner aircraft. This renewal is inseparable from the end-of-life of aircraft. Today, an aircraft can be recycled up to 90%. We need to redouble our efforts to improve the recycling of their construction materials and to encourage industry to use the resulting components. I come to a crucial element for the future of low-carbon aircraft: sustainable aviation fuels, FAS – Sustainable Aviation Fuels. They are based on technology that has certain advantages since these fuels are immediately usable and can be mixed with kerosene. In addition, the CO emission gains they allow make it a major lever for decarbonisation of the sector and the only one available for long-haul flights. However, FAS accounted for only 0.1% of aviation fuels in 2018, while the latest generation of engines can incorporate up to 50%. This low utilization is due to insufficient production and structuring of the industry. That is why, during the review of the PLF for 2022, we also tabled amendments to support the sector: we proposed, in particular, additional budgetary resources and a tax credit for airlines buying sustainable biofuels produced by French industrialists. Furthermore, if the mandates for compulsory incorporation of FAS at European airports, provided for in the Fit for 55 legislative package – or Paré pour 55 – and the draft European regulation, are a first step, they must be enhanced. As for the optimization of air traffic management and ground operations, solutions exist, but they deserve to be deployed on a larger scale and faster. As far as ground operations are concerned, I am thinking in particular of the electrification of tarmacs. For flight, the systematization of continuous descent approaches during landing and the progressive deployment of ecopiloting practices must be developed. Several other promising technologies have caught our attention: hydrogen aircraft and electric aircraft. While certain technical limits do not allow for their use at this stage on long-haul flights, each on its own scale represents a real opportunity to unblock territories and decarbonize air transport effectively. The models of electric aircraft under development raise issues regarding the certification and adaptation of airport infrastructure. At the financial level, the players in the sector have alerted us to the lack of specialised investment funds and national mechanisms to support them. We therefore recommend that the Government develop and facilitate funding for electric aviation. The use of hydrogen to propel aircraft is a medium-term solution. The massive production of decarbonated hydrogen will naturally be one of the major challenges of the future. In this respect, we must welcome the commitment of the European Union and that of France, and the France Recovery 2030 plan devotes €7 billion to the development of hydrogen. The Occitanie region is also a pioneer in this area, with the launch of the 150 million Green Hydrogen Plan, the commissioning of the Hyport hydrogen production unit at Toulouse-Blagnac airport and the creation in Francazal, by 2024, of a technocampus dedicated to hydrogen technologies. Again, the challenges will be multiple. I am thinking in particular of the adaptation of the aircraft and airport infrastructure for distribution, the security of all uses, the evolution of the regulation of installations classified for the protection of the environment (ICPE) relating to hydrogen and the creation of a regulatory framework at the level of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). Particular attention will have to be paid to the problem of limiting the resources of green hydrogen and to the competition of use between the different modes of transport. In order to anticipate these difficulties, we propose to draw up a precise picture of the hydrogen production capacity in Europe in order to assess the investments needed and to ensure a sufficient level of production to meet the demand. These challenges require a massive effort in research and development (R&amp;D) to ensure that France maintains its leadership in the aerospace sector. Other countries, including Germany, are in fact trying to get ahead of us. While significant funds – EUR 1.5 billion over three years –, led by the Council for Civil Aviation Research (CORAC), have been allocated to supply support, the R&amp;D programme will soon come to an end. We therefore propose to launch a long-term R&amp;D support plan in the aviation industry for the post-2022 period, also led by CORAC. I am convinced that one of the keys to the sector's transformation lies in our ability to maintain the attractiveness of the sector through employment and training. Indeed, the development of new decarbonisation technologies will require new skills, in the field of hydrogen, which I have just mentioned, but also in the field of cyber risks. Strengthening continuing training will be essential to ensure the employability of employees. A study had also highlighted the difficulties faced by SMEs in modernising their production processes. However, this modernisation is crucial to maintaining their competitiveness. Several mechanisms exist in our country to support companies in the face of digitalisation and digitisation challenges, but they should be strengthened, in particular through calls for projects. With the resumption of orders from the Airbus Group, subcontractors must now increase their production capacity, which is something to be welcomed. However, specific attention must be paid to the recruitment difficulties experienced by the maintenance, production and metallurgy professions, particularly under stress. Post-crisis support for the sector is another major challenge. Almost unanimously, the actors we heard acknowledged the benefits of the Government's aviation support plan, in particular the partial activity scheme. If the sector shows signs of recovery, several points require special vigilance. First of all, attention should be paid to the consequences of the gradual cessation of short-term aid, particularly for the smallest enterprises in the sector. It is also important to ensure that national support funds, particularly CORAC funds, are able to irrigate the entire sector and benefit smaller companies. We therefore propose, in our report, a mechanism for monitoring the breakdown of funds for the whole subcontracting chain. The crisis also highlighted the strong dependence of some subcontractors on a single aviation programme. This is particularly the case for those who work only on long-haul aircraft. It would be appropriate to improve the diversification of activities within the sector and to consolidate some small enterprises so that they can manage the fluctuations more easily while protecting themselves from possible foreign predations. As you know, the success of our action will depend largely on our ability to create a regulatory framework based on ambitious environmental objectives at European and international level to prevent distortions of competition and carbon leakage. We will soon have the opportunity to demonstrate French voluntarism: in the first half of 2022, with the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and in the autumn of 2022, at the 41st session of the ICAO Assembly. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] For American writer and pilot Richard Bach, "a plane symbolizes freedom, joy, the possibility of understanding. These symbols are eternal. Let us remember: if France is one of the few countries to possess the skills to build an aircraft from A to Z, it is in its DNA to believe in progress and in science and to devote itself to the future of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u5	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u6	I thank my colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group for putting this debate on the future of the aviation sector on the agenda, as it is unusual in Macronie to plan for the future. Yes! What says the future says planning, anticipating, planning, and all this is very difficult when you trust the market, itself governed by the pace of the short term. And when the magic of the market proves ineffective, the government does what it can do best: sprinkle. The health crisis has upset the sector. Last year, global air traffic was halved compared to 2019. However, according to the Government, this would be only a brief parenthesis, preceding a return to normality. In the recovery plan, the Government has therefore sprinkled: in total, the aviation sector has benefited from 15 billion euros of State-guaranteed loans (PGE). This could have been an opportunity to ask for counterparts from major groups, but not. Sprinkle as you please, and without social guarantees! Thus, during the crisis, Airbus announced the abolition of 15,000 posts worldwide, including 6,000 in France; at Safran, 10,000 posts will be abolished worldwide, including 3000 in France; At Air France, there will be 7,500 fewer positions by the end of 2022. Better, the State, as a shareholder of Air France-KLM, voted in favour of granting a bonus of €800,000 to the director of the company, in addition to the €7 billion of guaranteed loans it received, despite the announcement of a voluntary departure plan. Sprinkle as you please, I tell you! The crisis could have been an opportunity to question the merits of the growth of air traffic. After all, an air trip – as you know, Minister Delegate – is on average fourteen to forty times more polluting than by train. Air traffic doubles every 15 years and the sector is responsible for more than 7% of France's carbon footprint. Perhaps it would then be wiser to initiate ecological bifurcation? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Sprinkle as you please, and without ecological guarantees. In the midst of a health crisis, for example, Air France launched its first Paris-Montpellier flight, which could have largely been replaced by a rail route. Of course, the Government is gestured and prides itself on abolishing flights for a journey of less than two and a half hours by train. In doing so, it would reduce emissions from all flights from France by only 0.5%; But don't panic! The Government has blind confidence in the market's ability to break the deadlock. The France 2030 plan, announced in great pump by Emmanuel Macron, foresees, for example, the development of low-carbon aircraft. In this regard, the President of the Republic is more optimistic than the business leaders themselves: it aims to develop a carbon neutral aircraft by 2030, while the CEO of Airbus refers to the deadline of 2035 and 300 airlines have declared that they aim for neutrality only by 2050. It does not matter to him that an air transport leader tells us that the Airbus solution will not be able to apply on a large scale or to limit CO emissions. It doesn't matter to him that the carbon neutral aircraft is in any case a myth, as it requires biofuels that contribute to imported deforestation or relies on carbon compensation mechanisms. Indeed, the President of the Republic is obstinating and stubborn: for him, the health crisis is only a parenthesis. The ecological and climate crisis will be resolved or circumvented by technological progress. He relies on the magic of the private sector and abandons public research – and I take this opportunity to greet here, on behalf of the group La France insoumée, the researchers of the Office national d'études et de recherches aérospatiales (ONERA), on strike for better wages. For the President, it would be enough to continue as before, until it is too late. In this context, you will be able to sprinkle and sprinkle again, until you admit this truth: as we enter the age of pandemics and extreme weather events, there is no return to normal possible. The solution is to plan. It is necessary to plan the reduction of air traffic and the decarbonisation of the sector, to plan the conversion of employees and subcontractors – I insist, Mr.Minister Delegate – whose know-how and expertise will have to be put at the service of more environmentally friendly sectors. This means that, in the air, space and defence fields, a public service logic, based on the needs of the population and not on the frenetic pursuit of profit, must be substituted for commercial logic. And for that, yes, nationalizations will be necessary: it is called ecological planning, and this, of course, must be guided by the general human interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u7	She wants to impose everything in an authoritarian and vertical way!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u8	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u9	Of course, we would like to welcome the work carried out by the fact-finding mission on the future of the aviation sector in France, of which Mrs Pinel and Mr Lagleize were co-rapporteurs. The resulting report underlines the strategic nature of this sector for our country and the need to make large-scale public investments to preserve its know-how, at all stages of the production chain, and – of course – to accelerate the decarbonisation of air transport. Highlighting these issues is all the more essential since in the future this industry will become, whatever is said to be, less profitable for investment funds than it has been for decades. As a recent article in the newspaper Le Monde summarized, it is illusory to think that "technical progress [can], on its own, allow the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the aviation sector, which is essential for the fight against global warming. [...] Technological efforts [should] be carried out in conjunction with political and economic choices in favour of a global reduction of traffic. » This is not, however, a reason for sacrificing this industrial sector or for abandoning research and innovation in this field. On the contrary, the main challenge today is to support investments, particularly those relating to ecological transition projects, and to maintain control of this sector in the face of temptations and attempts to relocate or outsource certain activities in low-cost countries, in order to prevent the employment consequences they induce and build up. Public investment for decades must not be sacrificed on the altar of finance; This is why it is imperative for the public authorities to take over control of this sector. This is a strong demand from the representatives of the industry's employees, who, as we do on a regular basis on these banks, are also insisting on the need to hold the contractors accountable to the subcontractors, ensuring that they comply with their commitments regarding orders and prices. We must also work to support the diversification of the activities of these subcontractors, in order to avoid a loss of know-how. We must break, in a word, with the logic of financialisation to all cries that has won all the players in the sector, from industry to airports to airlines. The process of privatization of airports shows this: it is like abandoning private interests of common goods which must be preserved, on the contrary, in order to reorient their use in favour of social justice and the defence of the environment. The indiscriminate development of low-cost companies for years has been another example: they have built a toxic economic model. Registered in tax havens, they drastically restrict their staff and negotiate with some airports tariff reductions on airport charges, favouring harmful competition and windfall effects which lead to the creation of unprofitable lines, whose lifespan does not exceed that of tariff reductions. For the time being, nothing is being done against these socially and environmentally harmful practices, which are also detrimental to the development, in particular, of rail supply. While the environmental consequences of air transport feed into the debates about the place that the aircraft must occupy in society, it is essential to uphold two principles: our industrial sovereignty – that is true in this area as in many others – and the general interest. Respect for these principles requires the development of a strategy focused on responding to social needs and preserving the environment. We are convinced of this: such a strategy involves the sustainability of public commitment to industrialists, with compensations that must be required in social and environmental matters, democratic control of the strategies of the groups, which must develop at the level of employees, and determined action – as I said earlier – to consolidate SMEs where skills and know-how are concentrated, because they must be accompanied by the profound transformations that are taking place.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u10	Mr Pierre Cabaré has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u11	Brutality: this is a word that makes it possible to designate the health crisis, because it has stopped the transport of passengers throughout the world. To sum up briefly what has happened, we have moved from growth to financial difficulties, from optimistic announcements from the beginning of 2019 to a crisis with unprecedented effects, resulting in the turmoil of 300,000 employees affected by uncertainty. The impact of the crisis is emerging, and we can be sure of it: air transport is a major driver of economic development. The resources deployed during the crisis – air cargo of medical equipment, medical transport – underlined what we already knew: aeronautics is absolutely essential, and even more so in times of crisis. The State has shown decisive reactivity, giving a perspective, opening a way in a fog that could be blinding. As early as 2020, the Government launched a major plan to support aeronautics, based on various objectives: first, it was necessary to respond to the emergency by supporting companies, starting with the most difficult ones, in order to protect employees; then invest in SMEs – small and medium-sized enterprises – and ITEs – medium-sized enterprises – to support the transformation of the sector; Finally, to acquire a vision of the future and thus the financial means to design and produce in France. These resources have been concentrated on R&amp;D aimed at developing decarbonized aircraft, to enable us to strengthen our position as a leader – that of France but also that of Europe – in the field of aeronautics at international level. In the near future, we should not hesitate to rely on CORAC to address certain problems. We are thus able to leverage and give a clear course in the decarbonization of the global fleet; Indeed, for Europe, commitment to climate change must be a major objective. Member of a constituency that houses a considerable number of aeronautical companies, representing a very large part of the sector's 90,000 jobs in Occitanie, I cannot help but be proud – and how can I not be proud? I want to take this opportunity to say a word, because we sometimes forget them, about the TPEs – very small companies: to enable them to survive, we must be able to extend, on a case-by-case basis, the amortization period of the PGEs they benefit from. I am therefore proud, attentive, and I hope that a European body will be set up to train all the professions in the aeronautics sector. You have understood what I think: the choice of Toulouse or Blagnac would be the best to implant such an organism – and I am not a chauvinist.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u12	[[Smile]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u13	Our region is dynamic; allow me to illustrate it with the example of three companies of which it is the cradle: Satys, who has won the Boeing painting market in the United States; Aura Aero, which develops an electric aircraft project and whose ambition is to be the Tesla of aeronautics; and Tarmac Aerosave, which, based in Tarbes, is responsible for maintenance but also for what concerns us, the dismantling and recycling of aircraft, by valuing the product. We can't talk about aeronautics without talking about airports. We need to undertake major development projects and transform some of them – I am thinking in particular of Toulouse, the third French airport – into multimodal platforms geared towards the future, equipped to serve the cities and the region on which they depend, thus equipped with a TGV station, a track of drones, delivery platforms and, above all, efficient public transport. As areas with low mobility emissions (ZFE-m) emerge, we must be ready and not forget those who do not have the financial means to replace their vehicles – I am thinking of artisans and traders, in particular, but also of other categories of citizens. These airports will play a major role in the supply of biofuels, and it is the whole of Europe that must join forces to develop the FAS market, the price of which is still five to ten times too high. The state has consistently shown considerable agility, but its action would have been insufficient if the entire orchestra had not played in unison, establishing bonds of trust. I cannot conclude without stressing the courage of the employees, the ambition of the entrepreneurs and the will of the major trade unions, who shared the information and assessed the objectives. I am thinking of Éric Trappier and Guillaume Faury as well as Rodolphe Robert, CGT delegate of Toulouse-Blagnac airport. Nothing is ever acquired: it is essential that we remain vigilant and, with this experience of solidarity, we will remain on the track. Innovation is the path that aeronautics has been taking for more than a century; We must remember it, because it is she who leads us calmly towards the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u14	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u15	Civil aviation and aviation construction are particularly important sectors in France, as evidenced by the presence of the minister responsible for transport in this debate. At a time when we all want the reindustrialization of our country, we must first prevent it from losing its last major industrial sectors. Recall that the world's leading manufacturer is Airbus, that the world's leading airport manager is the ADP group, that the third global airline is Air France-KLM – three French companies. This sector contributes 4.3% to the national GDP and represents 320,000 direct jobs. In 2019, more than 210 million passengers flew from or upon arrival at French airports in metropolitan France and overseas. Air service is vital for the overseas, where we do not have other modes of transport to reach the national territory. The two million ultramarines – French who do not live on the continent but who remain citizens in their own right – perceive quite poorly that taxes and other increases in the cost of airfares do not take into account the geographical location of these territories. The aircraft offers citizens and businesses regular, fast connections and an extraordinary ability to open and trade in Europe and with the rest of the world. It is an undeniable vector of peace and progress. It is therefore essential that we have in mind three data: the importance of a sector in which we are a leader; the severity and duration of the crisis it is experiencing; the necessary technological changes necessary for sustainable development. Airlines experienced a 40% decrease in traffic in 2021 compared to 2019. This crisis will be longer than for other economic activities. The companies I auditioned in my budget opinion believe that the return to a pre-crisis situation will not be achieved until 2027 or 2028. This is naturally due to the duration and severity of the contraction of demand for two years, but also to the new ways of working remotely. We must therefore accompany our airlines and the entire aviation construction sector, in order to avoid weakening those companies which have already been the subject of emergency measures on a sustainable basis. While restructuring is under way in national companies, it is not yet in regional companies, particularly those serving overseas – Air Austral, Corsair or French Bee. Some of them received emergency aid, such as Air Austral, which received EUR 20 million. However, they remain at the heart of a serious financial turmoil linked to a debt that has become abyssal, which cannot be absorbed by the companies themselves. What is the Government's strategy to ensure the sustainability of overseas companies, including Air Austral, which are essential for territorial continuity and fair and healthy competition? More generally, what decisions must be taken to support this economic sector? We can make some proposals. The eco-tax could be directed towards the energy transition of the sector. The tax incentive for fleet renewal could immediately help reduce kerosene consumption, with new aircraft consuming 30% less than old aircraft. As Sylvia Pinel pointed out, the introduction of biofuels is only viable if its production is more heavily supported by the state. Finally, the modernization of French air traffic control would reduce the wait for aircraft before landing, thus reducing fuel consumption. The competitiveness of the French flag also depends on budgetary measures. The State budget could thus pay the civil aviation tax (TAC) and the airport tax, at least during the time of the company's reorganization, in order to avoid imposing them on the price of the air ticket alone. The debt of the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation (DGAC) and Air Navigation, which has increased due to the crisis of the Covid-19 to the point of reaching the record level of €3 billion, must be renegotiated with the State. Air transport remains an indispensable tool both for territorial continuity and for the resumption of tourism activity in France and the overseas territories after the health crisis. We need to improve all territorial continuity in order to facilitate access to air transport, which has taken the turn of decarbonisation and sustainable development. Rather than criticising air transport, we must above all accompany its transformation and ensure its competitiveness. The continuation of the sector's activity will have to go hand in hand with that of its ecological transition, with the aim of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. How does the Government intend to respond to the challenges facing the air sector, namely the preservation of this strategic activity and the technological change required by the Treaty of Paris and the protection of our environment?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u16	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u17	The future of aeronautics will be decarbonized. This is the conclusion that we can certainly draw from the report on the future of the aeronautics sector in France, of which I was the co-rapporteur with Sylvia Pinel. In the collective awareness of the climate emergency, aviation is particularly targeted for its responsibility for warming. It would be wrong to claim that this ecological concern is not shared by the aviation sector. On the contrary, awareness is real, shared by all the actors in the sector we have met and who have been working for a long time on the decarbonisation of their activity. The work carried out in the framework of this report allowed us to grasp the maturity of the reflection of the actors of the aeronautics world on these issues, but also to discover the extent of the existing solutions to decarbonize the sector. However, these solutions cannot be without the concrete support of public decision-makers. Among the viable solutions considered, the use of FAS is a major driver of short-term decarbonization of the sector: it could reduce aircraft greenhouse gas emissions by 80%. Two of the main sources of FAS are biomass, consisting of forest or agricultural residues, packaging cartons, animal fats or used oils; Synthesis fuel oil, produced from hydrogen and CO captured in the atmosphere. In order to optimise the production and use of FAS, a European mapping must be established defining the available biomass reservoir volumes, their renewal possibilities and the synthetic fuel production capacities. Deputy Minister, we must take advantage of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union to launch this census. This is all the more imperative since some countries have already done so for several months. I am thinking here in the United States where a partnership between Boeing and SkyNRG was announced last July to develop the country's production and supply of FAS, and where a $4.3 billion support plan was committed by Joe Biden last September to produce 11 billion litres by 2030. It would therefore be regrettable that, in the absence of local production, European aviation ultimately uses US biofuels, transported by tankers, even electric ones, in Europe. The decarbonisation of the sector also requires the renewal of the fleets. The use of more virtuous aircraft would result in fuel savings, resulting in CO emission gains of between 15% and 25%. However, airlines are not sufficiently supported in their investment efforts to speed up the renewal of their fleets, and they must bear the financial cost alone. We need to create a European mechanism for fiscal incentives for fleet renewal for airlines by, for example, providing for the possibility of overamortising virtuous investments. That's what Sylvia Pinel and I proposed to you a few weeks ago, Minister Delegate. In addition, standards to reduce the climate impact of air transport are being implemented on a scale that is still too small. Such measures must be adopted at the global level in order to be fully effective, and to avoid distortion of competition and any risk of carbon leakage. Take the example of a trip between Paris and Libreville, the capital of Gabon. While Air France makes a direct flight, subject to European standards, Turkish Airlines offers a stopover in Istanbul. Since the journey between Istanbul and Libreville is subject to international rules, which are more flexible than the Europeans, its price will be more attractive, for a much higher CO emission. We see not only a distortion of competition but also an alarming carbon leakage, all because decisions are not taken at the right level. What does the Government intend to do to promote action at the European level at the international level, for example at the forthcoming ICAO General Assembly in October 2022? If our international partners did not wish to share the same commitments as us, would it be possible to take compensation measures against those companies operating abroad? Aeronautics always makes you dream: it remains a privileged connector between the men of this world. But at a time when the sound of boots is being heard at the borders of Europe, at a time when our historic allies are mainly competitors in the race to decarbonize the aeronautics sector, it is essential to maintain our strategic independence. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – David Lorion also applauds]] The preservation of our French and European know-how depends on our ability to invest and protect this leading industrial sector, which is the strength of France and Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u18	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u19	First of all, I want to thank our colleagues in the Libertés et Territoires Group who, through Sylvia Pinel's voice, have chosen to launch this debate on the aviation industry. It is at the crossroads of many issues. In economic terms, it has been severely affected by the health crisis: international passenger air traffic has fallen by 60% in 2020. Despite last year's gradual recovery, its September 2021 level remained much lower than it was in September 2019. The sector is also involved in the ecological transition, accounting for 6.4% of our country's total CO emissions. It is part of the global competition: if two companies compete in the market for the construction of airline aircraft, new entrants are almost at the door of this market. Finally, it addresses research and development issues. Remember, Occitanie is the only French region where public and private R&amp;D efforts exceed 3% of regional GDP. It is also the only one among the 20 European regions that invest the most in R&amp;D. Most of this effort is done by the aeronautics sector. To address these issues, we must make two choices on which I would like to ask you, Minister Delegate: Invest in research in order to create a green plane; develop an economic sovereignty strategy. Let's start with sovereignty. Pursuant to the Montebourg decree, foreign investments that cross a certain threshold and are carried out in French companies with sensitive activities must be subject to the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance. In 2019, you decided to extend the scope of the sectors of activity covered by this decree to include health – which I thank you for, even if it was normal. Why do you refuse to include aeronautics? Turkish investors, i.e. non-European investors, can thus make their markets and buy French SMEs without Bercy's access and authorisation. This is unacceptable. All the players in the industry have already asked you to include aeronautics within the scope of this decree. The European Union is not very supportive of this, you will tell me. In any event, we must take responsibility for protecting our nuggets, the SMEs in our territories that are being bought by non-European investors without you having any idea. Financial support for the aviation sector must be based on two main axes: structuring the sector and investing in R&amp;D. The sector is structured through the Ace Aero Partners investment fund, launched on 30 July 2020 with €750 million – a third of this amount has already been allocated. According to the modus operandi adopted, it seems to me that most transactions were carried out through convertible bonds, which has the advantage of combining debt and capital. This is very good, but, as you know better than anyone else, the devil is sometimes in the details: in some cases, the strikes of these convertible bonds cause the historical leaders of the SMEs concerned to find themselves dispossessed or with a very small participation. I therefore hope that you will take stock, simply because the State is a shareholder – it has contributed 200 million of the 750 million euros of the fund – and that, in these circumstances, it must have, I believe, its say. With regard to research funding, as has been said, the Government had announced, as part of the aviation sector support plan presented in June 2020, an investment of €1.5 billion to CORAC to finance research. It is true that this objective has been met, at least in terms of commitment authorisations: the appropriations committed over the three financial years concerned have reached EUR 1 billion – and not quite EUR 1.5 billion. Beyond this French effort, Europe did not spend 1 euro on research on the green plane. It happens, however, that you will convene a European aviation summit on 3 and 4 February in Toulouse. What will be the position of the Government? Can you indicate the investment envelope you intend to spend on the development of the green plane and the sums on which our partners are ready to agree on this topic? By way of comparison, I would like to point out that the United States has deployed substantial amounts to ensure the safeguarding of aeronautics – I will not go back – by imposing compensation on airlines, which had to provide a minimum service and limit the remuneration of executives as well as stock buybacks and layoffs. These conditions had no equivalent in France. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC and LT groups. – MM. Stéphane Peu and David Lorion also applaud]] Finally, the need to meet the green aircraft challenge has been well perceived in the United States, as Joe Biden has set a target in the plan presented on 9 September to zero CO emissions from the aviation sector by 2050 and to reduce them by 20% by 2030, with substantial investments to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u20	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u21	I look in the stands for the students of the Lycée La Vidaude de Saint-Genis-Laval, who are visiting the National Assembly today. I am in any case very happy to meet you to discuss a very important industrial and technological sector in the country of Saint-Exupéry, namely aeronautics. As has already been pointed out on several occasions, it faces many challenges, both economic and technological, that involve our national sovereignty. As you know, at the heart of French sovereignty is nuclear deterrence, an essential component of which, alongside the ocean component, is the airborne deterrence provided by the Strategic Air Force (SAF). This is the only visible component of nuclear deterrence. Its credibility is therefore absolutely fundamental. The control of airspace is just as important, whether it is to defend our national territory or to conduct operations. As the armaments used in the world are increasingly sophisticated – in the air as well as in air defence – it is essential that we retain our ability to intervene everywhere. We must therefore be particularly vigilant with regard to the future air combat system (SCAF), the successor of the Rafale developed in connection with our German partners, which will ensure the protection of France and its interests until 2070. The aviation sector is finally a sovereignty issue because, in a country like France, which has territories around the world and even has the second largest maritime space in the world, the aircraft is the only way to quickly connect the metropolis with the overseas territories, for civilian and military uses. The vitality of the aviation sector also irrigates our economy. As our colleagues Jean-Luc Lagleize and Sylvia Pinel point out in their report, the aerospace sector accounted for 7% of French industrial wage employment at the end of 2020, or about 1 million jobs throughout the country. All these jobs and companies, directly or indirectly related to aeronautics, make this industry a real economic lung, especially in the South-West, but, more broadly, throughout the country. As everyone knows, the sector was violently hit by the health crisis, as airlines suddenly reduced their orders as a result of an unprecedented drop in traffic, which will not return to pre-crisis levels until 2024 at the earliest. We therefore welcome the massive support provided by the Government during the crisis through large-scale assistance. In June 2020, as the Government presented its plan to support aeronautics, the Minister of the Armed Forces, Florence Parly, said: "There is no civilian team in one corner and the military team in the other. There's only one team on the bridge: the France team. The result: Dassault Aviation, thanks to an exceptional reversal of the situation, announced successively the conclusion of four contracts in 2021: with Greece for eighteen aircraft, i.e. 2.5 billion euros; with Egypt for thirty aircraft, i.e. almost 4 billion euros; with Croatia for twelve second-hand aircraft, i.e. 1 billion; finally the contract of the past century with the United Arab Emirates, for eighty aircraft, i.e. 16 billion euros – never seen in France! These contracts will benefit the major aeronautics groups, both military and civilian, as well as the 400 ETIs and SMEs of the defence industry involved in the construction of the Rafale. Other markets are also under negotiation. Finally, the vitality of the aviation sector determines our influence and influence throughout the world. Tourism, for example, accounts for 7% of French GDP. If Air France-KLM seems for the time being to be in the eye of the cyclone, its results would be even slightly better than those of 2020 at that time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u22	Not quite.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u23	Is it just calm before the storm? Can you present a state of health situation for French airlines, including Air France-KLM?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u24	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u25	Following the publication of the Green Pact for Europe in December 2019, on 14 July 2021 the European Commission presented the Fit for 55 legislative package, which contains interesting and concrete proposals to ensure that the European Union achieves its climate objectives of becoming the first carbon neutral continent by 2050 and reducing its CO emissions by 55% from 1990 levels by 2030. According to the Directorate-General for Civil Aviation, attached to the Ministry of Environmental Transition, domestic air traffic accounted for 3.8% of CO emissions in the transport sector in 2019 and 1.5% of total emissions in France. The greening of the air sector is therefore one of the priorities, of which stakeholders are fully aware. Efforts have already been made: between 2000 and 2020, air transport emissions decreased by 49.3% for an equivalent number of passenger-kilometres, representing a 25.6 per cent decrease in unit emissions, corresponding to an average 1.5% decrease per year since 2000. These efforts must be welcomed, even if they are now to be strengthened. To this end, the Fit for 55 package contains several proposals which will have a direct impact on the European aviation sector. While most are in the right direction, some may increase the risk of carbon leakage, due to substantial increases in costs for European companies and distortions of competition with third-country carriers. It is therefore important that proposals be evaluated as a whole and as a whole. As such, two points need to be closely monitored. Firstly, the introduction of a kerosene tax through the revision of the European Energy Tax Directive must be rejected: this tax is not an effective means of reducing CO emissions and will not enhance the sustainability of the sector. Secondly, ensuring fair competition and preventing carbon leakage must be addressed. The introduction of a kerosene tax will simply lead to an increase in the cost of European companies' tickets for the benefit of non-European companies: it will not lead to a greening of the sector, but to a mere capture of the market for the benefit of foreign companies. The real challenge is elsewhere: rather than creating a new tax, the public authorities must support the development of a French sector of sustainable aviation fuels, by taking the necessary measures to offer users a price that is as close as possible to that of kerosene. While biofuels and fleet renewal are the sector's main emission reduction route, FAS costs four to ten times as much as conventional fuels. As kerosene accounts for about 30% of an airline's costs, such an increase in the price of fuel would result in costs that would be too high to allow French and European aviation players to continue to operate. A competitive French sector in this field would therefore create jobs and promote the country's energy sovereignty. At the same time, it is necessary to prevent carbon leakage from the Fit for 55 package by providing for carbon adjustment mechanisms at the borders to support European and, above all, French air transport. The tax measures taken in France to reduce CO emissions from air transport, and even more so those at European level, will lead to significant cost increases, which will only marginally affect competing companies outside the European Union. The risk is therefore real that the European flag – and in the first place the French flag – will be downgraded. It should be noted that, according to DGAC figures, France has already lost almost 15 points of market share in the last 15 years, i.e. one point per year. It is therefore necessary to provide for compensatory measures to stop the haemorrhage and prevent the French air flag from suffering the same fate as its maritime counterpart. In conclusion, this debate must allow us to combine the economic pragmatism needed to build a sustainable European aviation model that will inspire the rest of the world with the ecological objective of decarbonisation of the aviation sector. In order to be truly effective, the Fit For 55 legislative package must be accompanied by vigorous action by the public authorities in favour of the creation of a French sector of sustainable aviation fuels, while providing for support measures for the French aviation flag, threatened by carbon leakage. These measures will require political and diplomatic courage and discussions with bilateral and regional partners to build a diverse coalition of States committed to greater ambition and action in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u26	The next speaker is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u27	First of all, I would like to thank Sylvia Pinel and Jean-Luc Lagleize for taking over the theme we are talking about. Their report is welcome, because it allows us to take an objective look at a number of elements and to bring some lucidity, setback and reason in a society debate that sometimes lacks it, crystallises passions and gives rise to some excesses. There are sad spirits for which there is no greater evil than aviation. They have made it a scapegoat and see decay as the cure for all evils. You know, I'm not a bearer of this theory. Whether you like it or not, the plane is one of the most brilliant manifestations of human genius. It connects us to the most distant regions, brings us closer to the most unknown cultures, allows us to dialogue with the world, to open up to each other, to pacify relations between the peoples, and, closer to us, to strengthen the cohesion of the territory. Decreasing is a defeatism, a renunciation, a denial of what we are. For we are a nation of inventors and aviators: we are the heirs of Blériot, Mermoz and Saint-Exupéry, whose glorious names honor and compel us. France is the birthplace of Airbus, Thales and Safran, but also of start-ups that some of you have mentioned, such as Aura Aero, Elixir Aircraft or Ascendance Flight Technologies. This industry, vital for the attractiveness of our country, for our economy and for our territories, is the pride of France and the nearly 700000 men and women who rise every day to push the limits of the possible. It is with their expertise, skills and excellence that we will complete the ecological transition of air transport. We have the right to believe in it, because we are a great aeronautical power and because we have the incredible chance to change the course of things, not only for France, but for the whole world. All this is beautiful, you will tell me, but how do you plan as the sector goes through the worst crisis in its history? It is true that with the health crisis, air traffic has decreased. It even fell sharply, reaching levels equivalent to those of the late 1980s in 2020. To deal with it, the state has been on the rendezvous. We have injected billions of euros to save the national airlines – Air France, of course, but also Corsair, Air Caribbean and Air Austral. We have also supported our airports widely, as evidenced by the EUR 150 million advanced for the year 2022. We mobilized to reopen the borders as soon as possible. France was one of the first countries in Europe to set up the health pass. While it is difficult to predict when traffic will resume, most experts agree that it will take 2024 to return to 2019 levels. However, let us not deceive ourselves: not everything will become the same as before. Behaviours have changed, and probably for a long time: our fellow citizens have become more attentive to their carbon footprint and, above all, telework and video conferencing have become widespread, weakening for a time the income generated by business travel. In this context, if we want the aviation industry to remain competitive, the whole sector must evolve – manufacturers like airports and airlines. In other words, this is the perfect time to innovate. In this regard, our ambition is clear: to invent the low-carbon aircraft, in all its components, and to market it as soon as possible. We give ourselves the means of our ambitions. With the recovery plan, we have increased support for aeronautics research to €1.5 billion over three years, four times more than in the previous decade, while with France 2030, we are investing €1.2 billion in the aeronautics sector. We will invent the low-carbon aircraft by following three priorities, three axes of work – taken over by the European authorities: optimisation of the aircraft's trajectories; minimising the consumption of aircraft by using lighter materials, lighter engines and more aerodynamic aircraft; Finally, as some of you have said, a gradual replacement of kerosene with sustainable alternatives, both for the climate and for our sovereignty. In the medium and long term, the hydrogen pathway is being studied; In the shorter term, sustainable aviation fuels, alternative to kerosene, are already there. It is essential to use it because it is within our reach and allows us to reduce our emissions without delay. Last summer, we launched a call for projects to develop an industrial sector around these fuels in France. It is therefore EUR 200 million that will support research projects, from the industrial research phases, upstream, to the operational demonstration. Three projects have already been pre-selected: one to produce biokerosene from agricultural and forestry waste, and another from synthetic kerosene from renewable hydrogen and CO emitted from heavy industry. This is where we are and what are our priorities, at the French level. However, as some of you have said, we cannot simply reason at the level of France when almost three quarters of the CO emissions from air transport concern international flights. The transition must therefore be organised at the highest level. In this context, fair competition must be introduced in order to avoid carbon leakage, which is harmful to our economy as well as to the environment. The aim is not to relocate pollution, but to reduce it: it is up to us to take care of it and to ensure that the certification mechanisms are serious. Most of my European counterparts are paying attention to this: I was able to see this at the last TTE Council – Transport, Telecommunications and Energy – which took place in December 2021. We are going to make proposals in this direction, including a form of carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders for the air. Moreover, as you know, France supports the ambition of the Fit for 55 package, which includes various measures: an improvement in the carbon price signal, electrification of all airport ground equipment or a mandate to incorporate sustainable aeronautical fuels into European airports. I say this again: we will work to reconcile environmental ambition with the competitiveness of the sector. The ecological transition cannot and must not be at the expense of European hubs. Finally, the development of biofuels is a project that we must defend internationally. Incorporation mandates need to be much more ambitious. It's at ICAO that a lot is happening. We should move forward on the discussions this week at the aviation summit to be held in Toulouse on Thursday and Friday. The aim is precisely to align all European states, as well as other states in the world and, of course, companies, with our goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. In this way we will be able to defend this ambition at ICAO with a strong and united voice. Of course, it won't be easy. I would point out, however, that, five years ago, industrial actors did not even consider flying a low-carbon aircraft. Today, the whole sector is working on it. The case is moving fast, but we still need to speed up and, above all, sustain the effort over the long term. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups and Action ens]] Henry Ford, who was very familiar with the world of industry and a bit of the world of aviation, said: "When everything seems to go against you, remember that planes always take off in front of the wind. This remains true. So, let the voices that rise up against them and want to nail them to the ground matter. The history of aviation is that of a struggle against adversity. The daring, courageous, reckless people who have made French aeronautics what it is – still today – have always turned this adversity into a force. I have no doubt that they will continue because decarbonisation does not mark the end of aviation but a new beginning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u28	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u29	As I said earlier, one of the short-term responses to reduce CO emissions from the aviation sector is, of course, the incorporation of biofuels, including FAS. As we know, the environment is competitive. At the hearings we conducted, we found that many countries were very offensive – much more than France – in this regard. Some mentioned, for example, the Biden Plan, which provides for the introduction of a tax credit. It is important that, within the framework of the French Presidency of the European Union, the question of the mandate for the incorporation of FAS be examined – and that is one of our recommendations – as well as the creation of a European industrial alliance for FAS, following the model of Airbus. Mr Minister Delegate, are you ready, in order to speed up the structuring of an indispensable sector, to support an Airbus of the FAS, by bringing with you the local authorities, for example the regions, but also, of course, the companies and the energy industry, through research and development efforts? This question seems essential to us. However, during our hearings, it seemed to us that France, a leader in many research programmes, was easily allowed to distance itself in this field. It is imperative to structure the FAS sector, both at national and European level. In our view, the French Presidency of the European Union offers an opportunity to tackle it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u30	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u31	We already had the opportunity to discuss this issue a few weeks ago, during the hearing conducted as part of your fact-finding mission. You are absolutely right: it is necessary to structure the FAS sector. We are doing this at national level since we have already spent EUR 200 million on upstream industrial research, to develop both the treatment of waste oils and that of agricultural and forestry waste. On the other hand, we have begun to build the future synthetic fuel industry, which you have said will require a massive development of decarbonated hydrogen. To achieve this, we must first agree, at French and European level, on various issues, such as the rate of incorporation of biofuels – as you know, the European Commission made a specific proposal on this subject on 14 July, which needs to be discussed – or the various support mechanisms. While the Americans, as you have pointed out, often opt for the tax credit in the transport sector, Europeans and the British tend to use investment subsidies to develop technologies and secure industrialization. These issues will be discussed not only at the aviation summit to be held on Thursday and Friday in Toulouse, but also at the informal meeting of transport ministers to be held at Bourget airport on 21 and 22 February. These discussions, which will enable us to move forward on this issue and build a European agenda on the basis of the various criteria mentioned, will give us momentum, at international level, for the ICAO General Assembly to be held at the end of the year. I think I can say that we are well equipped to lead the FAS revolution, which is the subject of an increasing consensus on the part of European countries, but also of third countries wishing to embark on the energy transition of air transport very concretely.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u32	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u33	I am asking this question on behalf of my colleague Karine Lebon, but also of all our friends from the meeting. Air Austral does not escape the difficulties of the sector. This company, which has 1000 employees, operates long-haul flights with the Hexagon and the air service of the Indian Ocean zone. Its inscription in the Réunion airscape and the image it contributes to conveying around the world explain the heritage character that the Réunions attribute to Air Austral. We welcome the European Commission's favourable opinion on 20 million euro state aid – a real step forward. We hope that the State will continue to be present to revitalize the destination Réunion as soon as the health situation permits. Even today, it has a strong impact on family travel and tourism. For several months, travellers have had to justify a complete vaccination schedule or compelling reasons, as well as a PCR or antigenic test of less than 24 hours to go to Réunion. However, on 28 January, the Conseil d'État cancelled the obligation of compelling grounds for non-vaccinated French foreigners wishing to return to France on the following ground: "This requirement is liable [...] to cause lasting obstacles to the exercise of the fundamental right to return to the national territory of which any French person has, without the health benefit of such a measure being clearly such as to justify the infringement which is thus brought to this right. » The question is simple: will this cancellation also concern travellers between La Réunion – and more generally the overseas – and Hexagone?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u34	Very good question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u35	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u36	As far as Air Austral is concerned, you were right to recall the patrimonial and absolutely strategic nature of the overseas routes. This is why, from the beginning of the crisis, the State has supported airlines such as Air Austral. For the latter, EUR 80 million of State-guaranteed loans were mobilised, a direct loan of EUR 10 million through BPIFrance was granted and the region was committed to EUR 25 million in the summer of 2021. In addition, as you pointed out, a €20 million aid plan has just been approved by the European Commission. It will enable the company to cope with the severe difficulties it has recently encountered while designing a turnaround and transformation plan. The State will, of course, remain with Air Austral for the outstanding reasons you have recalled. Let me turn to the second part of your question. The decision of the Council of State you cited responds to a request dated 26 July 2021. It therefore remains without effect on the fact, already acquired, that the French are not concerned by the obligation to justify an imperative reason to reach French territory from abroad, in accordance with the law of 5 August 2021. The decision of the Council of State to which you refer therefore has no effect on the restrictions applicable between overseas and Hexagon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u37	Mrs Olga Givernet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u38	First of all, let me say that I am pleased to have here, thanks to our rapporteurs, a debate on the future of aeronautics. As with you, Minister Delegate, this industry is dear to me. It's my original professional family. At a time when a certain aero-bashing is gaining ground, I would like to say this: Aeronautics is first and foremost women and men who have dreamed and are still dreaming. It is also the area of excellence of the French economy and our main export asset. We can be proud of the successes of our industrial flagship, Airbus. After a difficult 2020 year due to the global crisis, he has just announced the recruitment of 6,000 talents during this semester. As a key sector, aeronautics is also a challenge for our strategy to decarbonize the economy. Fleet renewal, use of sustainable fuels, development of electric or hydrogen aircraft: some runways are immediately deployable, others will have to wait several decades. France has drawn up a blueprint for this and the European Union has set an ambitious target: to reduce its carbon emissions by 55% by 2030 compared to 1990. This is the largest energy-climate plan in the history of the European Union. We are at the beginning of the French Presidency of the European Union, but six months are fast. Six days ago, Green Transition Minister Barbara Pompili invited her European counterparts to Amiens for a floor on the concrete deployment of the Fit for 55 package, which includes the use of sustainable fuels for aviation. The race for technologies for lighter aircraft, which consumes renewable energy, is underway. It is true that environmental performance is a factor in the controls and the green aircraft is becoming more and more attractive. But competition is fierce, especially against Chinese aircraftmen, heavily subsidized by the communist regime. My question is simple: how do you assess the risk of distortion of competition and what is the content of your exchanges with your European counterparts on this subject?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u39	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u40	You have asked a lot of questions, but I will try to sum up our approaches at European level. A few months ago, industry in the aeronautics sector voted in favour of the goal, much more ambitious than the commitments signed previously, of net decarbonisation of the sector by 2050. We wish – this is the subject of the aviation summit in Toulouse – to set ourselves in order on a European scale to achieve this. For this to happen, technical and operational progress must be combined, by optimising the trajectory of aircraft, by developing the alternative kerosene fuel industry, the FAS, and by building the next generation of low-carbon, ultra-frugal aircraft. In the coming years, aircraft will continue to improve in terms of energy consumption; It is particularly crucial if hydrogen is to be used, which has the disadvantage of occupying more space on board. The French and European technological roadmaps are perfectly coordinated. We have provided considerable resources for the next three years, but the effort will have to continue. This approach is comparable to what we know about the US investment plans and what we support from China. We now need to move forward at European level; This is the subject of the aviation summit and it will be the informal meeting of transport ministers to be held on 21 and 22 February. We will have to relay this concern to the most global level possible. ICAO appears to be the appropriate scale for this issue and we will have to continue to discuss with the pivotal countries in this organization: Brazil, India, the countries of the Middle East, some African countries. That is the purpose of the diplomatic work that we will be doing in the near future to ensure that the net decarbonisation of the sector becomes a reality, with a view to bringing the largest number of countries into this process as soon as possible. It is under these conditions, at the cost of this real and tangible effort, that we will collectively avoid the effects of distortion of competition, in environmental or social matters, that we have experienced recently.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u41	Mr. Alexandre Freschi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u42	The French aviation industry is a national pride. Despite the covid-19 pandemic, which has deeply affected the entire sector, our companies and subcontractors have shown great resilience. The massive action of the Government has been decisive. Salvator and quickly deployed, the EUR 15 billion aeronautics support plan has saved our industrial grid and jobs while thinking about the transformation of the industry and supporting research and development for the design of tomorrow's aircraft. Now the time has come for the resumption of activity and recruitment. This is the case, for example, in my constituency, where companies in the aviation industry such as LISI-Creuzet, CSA-Creuzet or Asquini of the Nexteam group want to recruit. In fact, a recent INSEE foresight study indicates that this is the case for half of the companies in the Greater Southwest aeronautical industry. The Airbus Group, as you know, has also announced its willingness to recruit up to 6000 new employees in the coming years. The development of new carbon-free technologies, the use of sustainable aviation fuels, hydrogen aircraft and electric aircraft are future paths for sustainable transport. All of this will undeniably contribute to strengthening aeronautical industrial activity in our territories. In order to support this transformation and remain competitive in the industries of the future, we must continue to train students in these trades and new techniques. Already, companies in the sector and specialized training centres are working together to improve and strengthen the skills required by the new challenges of the sector's future. Minister Delegate, what strategy do you deploy within the Government to secure our skills, to attract new talent in this field of excellence and thus to ensure the sustainability of this industry flagship, which is particularly implanted in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u43	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u44	At the height of the crisis, it was necessary to preserve these civilian and military skills – and that gives me the opportunity to respond in part to Mrs Rabault's inquiry. The research component of the recovery plan, intended for CORAC, has not only cushioned the effects of the crisis: it has also allowed us to project ourselves into a short- and medium-term future. Secondly, a credible recovery and decarbonisation plan was needed and, in a cascade, new skills were created. These are a challenge for the entire transportation sector, given the challenges associated with electrification of the automotive sector, decarbonization of the air sector and the ecological transition of land and sea transport. I know that the fabric of French aeronautics schools of excellence is fully mobilized to build as soon as possible the new training courses preparing for tomorrow's trades. Indeed, it is not only a technological race, but also a race for investment capabilities and a war of talent. Be sure: the French university and research are working energetically to play a role in this great collective adventure of the decarbonization of air transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u45	Mr Robin Reda has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u46	As our economy moves towards greener practices, I come back to the issue of biofuels. Today's debate questions the viability and competitiveness of the French flag in the context of global competition in the air sector. Since the beginning of the year, the state has imposed 1% biofuels on our airlines; This share will rise to 3 per cent in 2025 and to 5 per cent. But these green fuels are to date much more expensive and very little available.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u47	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u48	We are faced with countries that deploy enormous resources, create jobs and activity, and secure their energy sovereignty over biofuels for tomorrow's aviation. And we, what path do we decide to take for France? What path do we decide to take for Europe? The air sector is a state-of-the-art national domain. It must be greened and, as has been said, this is the path he wishes to take himself. The role of the State is to accompany these changes for more encouraging prospects. Unfortunately, for the time being, our air sector is facing a state that compels more than it encourages. Rather than favouring tax incentives, it decrees hurried and harsh obligations. Rather than creating a virtuous framework for French airlines, he put them at a disadvantage. Rather than advocating for a common European strategy, capable of ensuring strong international competitiveness, it makes our companies subject to the air force the mistrust and mistrust of the public authorities. Meanwhile, new entrants to the often far lower costs and constraints are propelled on the frontlines by conquering states, creating unfair competition for our aviation sector. Worse still, our demands lead to absurd facts. Because our hubs are too expensive, it is much more advantageous to make stops in Dubai than in Europe, even for intra-European flights! When is a state that accompanies our French air champion towards real and ecological competitiveness prospects?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u49	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u50	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u51	We are here, I understand, in a contest linked to an election deadline that is approaching; I will nevertheless try to recall the reality of the facts and our actions, which I believe to be a consensus among the players in the sector – they should be asked about this. With regard to aviation fuels alternative to kerosene, we have done three things. Firstly, and this is a unique initiative in Europe, we have begun to develop the whole sector. For example, with regard to the waste oil segment, Total is organising the conversion of the major sites of La Méde and Grandpuits: it will allow us to produce, by 2030, 50% of the sustainable biofuels needed to comply with the adopted trajectory. We are also developing, with many French industrial players, the agricultural and forestry waste sector. Straw and wood-based fuels are produced between Venette, Oise, and Dunkerque, running a local industry. Again, we are at the forefront of European practice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u52	But it's very expensive!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u53	Finally, there is the great subject of synthetic fuels. In this area, France has a major competitive advantage, that of potentially having a large amount of decarbonated hydrogen as a result of its nuclear industry. The price problem is countered by a two-pronged strategy: support for investment – we are now spending EUR 200 million on it, and this effort will be continued – and the creation of a European-wide area of non-distortion of competition. I cannot let you say that France would be late; On the contrary, it is at the forefront and the attack in this field, lucid about the need to build a sustainable alternative fuel chain to kerosene.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u54	There's still work to do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u55	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u56	First of all, I thank Sylvia Pinel and the Libertés et Territoires Group, to which she is related, for proposing a debate on the future of aeronautics in the framework of this week of control, the last of the quinquennium. Several companies in my constituency, Lorraine, depend on the aeronautical sector; These are talented TPEs with cutting-edge know-how, which contribute to the success of the industry. The Aeriades network, based in Lunéville, is working to develop this sector in our region. In the coming months, the aviation sector will face cash flow problems and our companies are having concerns. The health crisis has led to a significant reduction in production and has led the entire aviation supply chain to a decline in activity and employment. In 2020, the sector experienced an unprecedented drop in its order books and a drop in turnover between 25 and 40 per cent, according to companies. The recovery started at the end of 2021 seems to be confirmed in 2022. Projections show hope for a return to 2019 level by 2023 or 2024 at the latest. The measures taken by the State have helped to avoid many claims and to limit losses, without cancelling them. But the increase in volumes to be produced creates an additional need for working capital at a time when repayments of EMPs and moratoria granted by the IRS and the USSRAF come to grips with already fragile cash flows. Companies therefore need schemes such as participative loans or convertible bonds to strengthen their balance sheets. Such arrangements are announced, but very few are actually implemented. It's a reality! Minister Delegate, what does the Government intend to propose to meet this expectation and to strengthen the cash flow of companies in this sector, so essential to our country's trade balance and to the preservation of future jobs in our territories?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u57	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u58	I share your observation: at the height of the crisis, we have had to act quickly to preserve large groups and ensure that subcontractors, often dependent on a single customer, do not face financial difficulties and do not become prey to hostile predations. This could have happened if we had not mobilized as quickly as possible. As part of the recovery plan, we supported 220 projects, including 90 projects led by equipment manufacturers, SMEs or ITEs. Thanks to CORAC, a structure dedicated to aviation construction research, we have allocated some 20% of the €1.6 billion over three years to SMEs. You are right, the problem remains the cash flow, the high balance sheet and the ability to build or replenish capital. That is why, in the framework of the France 2030 plan, the President of the Republic announced an envelope of 1.2 billion euros, including 400 million for emerging actors,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u59	Where are these credits?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u60	... start-ups that need to build up equity. We will study your proposals with interest, but we believe that this is a good tool to preserve cash flow and allow our companies to acquire sufficient resources at a time when they are undergoing major transformations, with sometimes staggered market effects. We will ensure that these equipment manufacturers, start-ups and SMEs continue to receive adequate financial resources at this particular time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u61	Mr Jean-Luc Lagleize has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u62	I would like to address the issue of financial support for French aviation start-ups, beyond the traditional sector of the industry. The large companies in the aeronautics industry have been well assisted and remain strongly supported by the French State: it was a sine qua non condition for the maintenance of French excellence in this field. The aid enabled the aviation sector to survive during the health crisis; EUR 15 billion have supported the sector since June 2020, and EUR 7 billion have been paid to Air France to support the company. Beyond the traditional French champions of the sector, aeronautics start-ups have developed around electricity and hydrogen. However, they lack specialized investment funds and loans to support their innovations. It is necessary to be able to accept the financing of projects whose profitability is achieved over the long term. The regions stand out a little in this direction. In Occitanie, as part of Aerospace Valley, a call for light and environmentally responsible air mobility (MEFTA) has been launched for aeronautics innovations. Some private initiatives are also beginning to emerge, like the Starburst Accelerator business incubator, dedicated entirely to the aerospace and defence sector. However, these initiatives are not enough to financially support these start-ups who find it difficult to reach the threshold of industrialization. Minister Delegate, what are the Government's thoughts on financial support for French aviation start-ups? Without adequate support, entrepreneurs may turn to the United States or China, where financing is easier to find. This would lead to technological transfers of intellectual property and know-how, which would be truly detrimental to French competitiveness and innovation. These start-ups are stakeholders of French excellence in aeronautics, we cannot afford to lose them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u63	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u64	Your question is a bit like that of Mr Bazin. First of all, I would like to repeat what we have tried to do: to preserve as much as possible the fabric of French aeronautical SMEs, in the broadest sense, because it was very exposed, in particular, to risks of cash flow at the most acute moment of the crisis. This may not have always been the case, but be convinced: this time, for this sector in particular and at this moment in history, we have managed to preserve the essential know-how, skills and industrial excellence of the French aeronautical industry. As I said, 220 projects were accompanied and, for the reasons I mentioned earlier, 20% of the funds were allocated to SMEs. Now it is the recovery that is expected with its positive consequences, but sometimes it is accompanied by lag effects, especially in terms of cash flow, which may give rise to difficulties. That is why, with France 2030, we are giving back perspectives both in terms of time and for the technological objects we want to support. We will also put in place appropriate arrangements for start-ups, in particular aeronautics, through equity support mechanisms, with the participation of BPIFrance, which partly responds to the high-level assessment referred to by Mr Bazin. Thus, 400 million euros will be allocated to emerging players – start-ups – within the framework of France 2030. It seems to me that this allows us to approach with the utmost serenity possible the phase that opens before us. I will point out that when you compare yourself, sometimes you feel sorry for yourself. In this case, we can rather console ourselves, because our answers, particularly financial ones, are at a good level compared to what we do with other prominent actors, such as the Americans. This effort will need to be sustained. We have committed it over three years and, as we have said to the players in the sector, we will maintain it for the long term. Take-off or take-off – to stay in the aeronautical vocabulary – that we are witnessing give us hope that we have made the right decisions, in the right political tempo.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u65	Mr. David Habib has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u66	Deputy Minister, with your deplorable climate and resilience gadget law, you have fed fly-bashing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u67	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u68	Tomorrow, you will hit the French aviation industry with the abandonment of domestic connections. Today, you're attacking air traffic. Your office, concerned, phoned my secretariat on Friday to find out what my intervention was. In the most transparent and immediate way, it has been indicated to your collaborators that I wanted to ask you about the Vesta plan – it would have been very easy for them to know the purpose of my speech, since I wrote to you twice on this subject, without even getting an answer. Air France at Orly Airport, it's over for many destinations in the South; It is now Transavia with its less paid personnel, its fleet consisting exclusively of Boeing polluting aircraft and especially its commercial policy more adapted to flights to Ibiza than to a corporate clientele travelling between Pau and Paris. The president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Pau alerted you; The President and CEO of TotalEnergies, Mr. Pouyanné, recalled the importance of Pau's airport platform for its group which employs several thousand employees in Béarn. All the members of the Pyrénées-Atlantiques, both the majority and the opposition, have also alerted you. We asked you for an appointment to explain the stakes; no answer. You are the absent subscribers, and unable to tell Air France's management stop. On March 27, Air France flights from Orly to Pau will be over and it will be too late. Minister Delegate, do you intend to act? Could you remind us of the constraints in terms of spatial planning and territorial continuity imposed on Air France in the face of the 7 billion that you granted to the company when it was in difficulty? What does the Government intend to do for the territories that are 800 kilometres from Paris and that are in dire need of air links?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u69	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u70	I am well aware of the subject, for having raised it directly with you several times, and I do not share your analysis on at least two points. First of all, if a government has acted to maintain domestic connections in our territories in the broad sense, it is the one of which I am a member: to preserve the attractiveness of our territories, we have revived the territorial planning lines, by subsidising a number of lines for which the train is not an obvious or sufficient solution in view of the duration of the journey. Some EUR 30 million is used to subsidise lines to the large central Massif or other cross-sectional links. Secondly, when the crisis came, air traffic decreased by almost 10 per cent. We have been in contact with the local elected representatives, particularly through the actors and airport operators. As soon as we were able to resume these lines, we did so by trying to look at the level of traffic and how the various groups involved – you mentioned Air France – could restart flights in the most rational and comfortable way possible for passengers. Then, and this is probably the apple of discord between us, you know that Air France has largely restructured its domestic offer, putting in charge its subsidiary Transavia. The group did it at the time the branch Hop! Some EUR 200 million was lost per year, which no longer ensured the sustainability of regional activity in the medium term. I fully understand your doubts about the quality of the services offered by Transavia. On several occasions, I spoke with the employers of Air France and Transavia; They are fully mobilized to ensure and strengthen the quality of service and to increase the frequency of flights. Thus, twelve weekly round trips will be operated between Pau and Orly in the coming weeks. I stand at your disposal to discuss the quality of service, but I think I can say that the Air France-KLM group, and in particular the Air France and Transavia companies, are determined to provide the highest quality of service for the destinations you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u71	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u72	Global aviation produces 3% of greenhouse gas emissions. In the face of the challenges of climate change, we are all convinced that we must decarbonize our aviation industry by launching a revolution, in order to rely on new technologies, including green hydrogen. To this end, Minister Delegate, you have presented a strategy for the development of this energy, and Airbus has announced that it will build a zero-emission hydrogen-powered aircraft by 2035. I think in France we have all the capacity to move forward. We are also pleased that the recovery plan devotes €7 billion of investment in the hydrogen sector. Given the size of our competitors at the global level, we must also think in Europeans. I have noted that the European and French roadmaps are now aligned. Could you tell us how the efforts will be articulated at national and European level? What are the objectives we can expect together? Finally, do you have an estimate of the additional amount of electricity that we will have to generate to meet this new demand for hydrogen?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u73	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u74	With regard to your first question, I have had the opportunity to refer to the plan for decarbonisation of French air transport, which is perfectly relayed by the European programme on the aviation sector. Between 2022 and 2028, €1.7 billion will be spent on technologies aimed at 100% decarbonisation: the integration of an ultrafrugal engine – a sine qua non condition for the development of hydrogen in good conditions; demonstration of a hydrogen aircraft – the actors in the pipeline have spoken about it recently; high-power electricity; development of the regional decarbonized aircraft. There is a perfect strategic alignment between what is being undertaken at French and European level. With regard to the demand for electricity, it must first be borne in mind that the air sector accounts for only about 2.5% of all pollution in the transport sector; 95% of this pollution comes from road transport – heavy vehicles as private vehicles. The demand for electricity in transport, particularly as a result of the weight of the land transport sector, will increase considerably. The electrification of the vast majority of transport will require, according to the estimates of demand, a fifteen- or even twenty-fold increase in the production of low-carbon electricity by 2050. On this electricity, France has to date, thanks to nuclear power, a competitive advantage that we must of course preserve – while continuing to develop renewable energies – because it is our only way to remain credible on our environmental commitments and to begin the desired break-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u75	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u76	In keeping with the announcement made on 28 January by the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, Bruno Le Maire, French growth will be at 7% in 2021. Clearly, this should have a positive impact on the aviation sector. I had the opportunity to meet with the director of the Méaulte site of Stelia Aerospace. While he welcomes the sharp acceleration of demand, he also fears the effects of the health crisis on the skilled labour force of our Somme territory. Indeed, partial unemployment measures have taken some people away from employment, while the current strong dynamic creates competition between firms on the recruitment of skilled labour. As a result, many aeronautical companies are struggling to recruit. Moreover, aeronautics suffers from its reputation among young people, who see it as both a sector that is losing speed due to the health crisis, as well as a polluting activity and contrary to the fight against global warming – a position that, of course, I do not share. Here again, the results are very concrete: in Méaulte, at the Henry Potez private vocational school in Stelia Aerospace, the number of applications rose from about 20 to 10 between 2020 and 2021. While recruitment is more the responsibility of the company, the state must still help the aeronautics companies. Could it not, through advertising campaigns that value the work in the aeronautics sector, help companies to attract young apprentices while insisting on the many offers of work in the sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u77	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u78	I take note of your proposal and will have it reviewed. I do not know to what extent the State, alongside the regions, can lend itself to this exercise of valuing know-how and promoting skills, but what I know is that we are trying to give the transport sector visibility, both on the technological dimension and on the financial dimension, by committing ourselves to investments which are quite considerable and structuring. I have no doubt that the French aviation industry will continue to be an industry of excellence, and will continue to attract young people and, in order to take up a topic now known, to make them dream. For this, we have universities and schools of excellence. Friday, I will be in Toulouse at the École nationale de l'aviation civile (ENAC) as part of the aviation summit; The Toulouse fabric illustrates very well, it seems to me, the very great competence we have in aeronautics. The role of public authorities, beyond ad hoc communication actions, is indeed to give visibility, to creditise with considerable financial resources, and to relay at European level because our great French successes are French and European. I think we have the keys to success here. We now need to bring it to the public's attention, to create environmental and economic credibility, and I have no doubt that the vocations will be many and positive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u79	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u80	The health crisis has had an unprecedented impact on the aviation sector as a whole. Many companies, including many TPEs and SMEs, which were considering exponential growth before the crisis, are now asking themselves the question of their survival. That is why the strategist State must fully play its role as an economic back-up to the players in this sector of excellence, daring to promote indispensable economic patriotism. In October 2020, the Minister of the Armed Forces visited the Dinard site of Sabena Technics, a company based in Occitanie and specialized in aviation maintenance and maintenance, to announce support and anticipated public orders, but six months later the employees learned that the Ministry of the Armed Forces was removing this company from the maintenance of Falcon maritime surveillance aircraft of the national navy for the next ten years in order to entrust the contract to a Swiss company with American capital. Deputy Minister, we must break with the taboo of economic patriotism, in order to preserve the jobs of the aeronautical sector and keep many French companies afloat. Let us not forget that aeronautics is an activity of national sovereignty. We must give priority to French companies for all State orders in the military and defence fields. The State cannot abandon companies and employees in an economic sector in which France is at the forefront. Are you going to take any government action in this direction?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u81	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u82	Madam Member, I do not have shameful economic patriotism. Apart from the EUR 7 billion allocated to the Air France-KLM Group, we have, over the entire period, made 8 billion commitments in support of the sector, both in its civil and in its military dimension, with EUR 832 million in support committed to 100%. CORAC, as I said, the research and support organisation for civil aviation construction, is 1.6 billion over three years, with a lot of TPEs, SMEs, French ETIs that have not only been supported in their daily activities but that we have also protected against hostile commercial predation acts by countries that, you are right, do not always want us good. Export insurance is a total of $3 billion, largely committed. State-guaranteed loans are 1.5 billion for companies in our territory, committed to 50 per cent. The Aviation Sector Modernization Fund is €300 million committed at 100%. I could continue to refer to the economic arrangements which have benefited mainly French economic actors established in France with a vocation of international outreach. I think I can say, Madam Member, that we have answered here. We are doing better than simply defending the French aviation industry: we allow it to project in the medium and long term and to remain at the forefront of the world's aviation industry for a long time, so to make the pride of a very large number of French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u83	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u84	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u85	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u86	The next item is the debate on mal-housing. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u87	Madam President, Madam Minister responsible for housing, colleagues, I want to give confidence to those who sit in the running Republic Group: I recognize a certain sense of humour. A few days ago, I came across a tweet from the "Youth with Macron" commemorating Abbé Pierre's disappearance in these words: "Resistant, MP, founder of Emmaus, Abbé Pierre has committed himself to poverty and housing for the rest of his life. Fifteen years after his disappearance, it is our duty to continue his struggle, which is still essential. You had to dare! The macroists would therefore be the ideological heirs of Abbé Pierre. After all, the President of the Republic himself said in 2017: "The first battle is to house everyone with dignity. I don't want to have women and men on the streets by the end of the year. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u88	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u89	A few more tweets and the Walkers will explain why "property is theft", quoting from the Proudhon. Definitely, Madam Deputy Minister, you were born before the shame. Next Wednesday, the Fondation Abbé Pierre is due to release its twenty-seventh report on the state of mal-housing. One thing is certain: it is overwhelming for the action of this government. For five years after promising that more than one person would sleep outside, according to the census of the Collectif Les Morts de la rue, it was 2716 women, men and children who died in solitude, for lack of roof. Five years after saying this sentence, here's your review: APL 5 – Personalized Housing Assistance – less, a housing reform that reduced the allowances by 30% of the beneficiaries of the aid, a new method of calculating housing assistance that penalizes young people. Your assessment is the decline in support for associations that care for people in difficulty in access to decent housing, and it is the reduction in the quota of housing accessible to people with reduced mobility, persons with disabilities, but also parents with strollers and elderly people, which increases from 100 to 10 per cent. Your balance sheet, it is the rental evictions that go up again, with, last year, 6600 evictions without rehousing solution. Your balance sheet is the increase in VAT on the construction of social housing, leaving 2.2 million requesting households on the tile. It is the dried up finances of HLM organizations that have no choice but to abandon the maintenance of buildings and the production of new housing. In 2020, for example, there were only 87,500 registered housing units, with an initial target of 110,000. The neoliberal shock is so blatant that it comes to hindering your objective allies. Thus, even the Institut Montaigne, in a report published last year, questions the austerity applied to social housing and home ownership. To catch up with you, you take your technocratic blabla on MaPrimeRenov', even though the remaining charge is 20%, so that no poor home can claim a complete thermal renovation of its housing. Queen Marie-Antoinette proposed to hungry Parisians to eat brioche; the bright millionaire Agnes Pannier-Runacher can advise the French to put a sweater in cashmere if they are cold. That, colleagues of the majority, is your assessment, which has nothing to do with the legacy of a man and a foundation fighting poverty and exclusion. The truth is that Emmanuel Macron is the president of 4.1 million homeless people and 15 million French people affected by the housing crisis. Emmanuel Macron is the president of the endless lines of food aid. Emmanuel Macron is the president of 300,000 homeless people, twice as many as in 2012, in the world's fifth largest economy. Colleagues, no one gets used to living on the street, or in an overcrowded housing, with moulds, bed bugs, cockroaches, to being cold, developing respiratory diseases. No, you don't get used to it, you never get used to it, you endure it, you suffer it, you suffer it all the time. With Jean-Luc Mélenchon, as early as April 2022, we will make a clean table of these inhuman policies. Housing with dignity is not a privilege, it is a human right. We will ban evictions without rehousing solutions. We will create a universal guarantee of rents in order to achieve social security for housing. We will remove the need for physical guarantors, which favours those who have given themselves only the evil of being born. Because it is not possible for landlords to speculate that a third of the population is struggling to pay rent each month, we will introduce mandatory rules on rents throughout the territory and the decline in large cities. To combat unhealthy housing, we will put in place a compulsory rental permit for owners, because it is criminal for sleep merchants to exploit social misery. For these people, I say, it will be zero tolerance. Similarly, there is an urgent need to deploy a national plan to combat bed bugs, as we have repeatedly asked you to do. They're ruining the lives of millions of people. Together with associations, we have drafted a bill to that effect. A member of the majority group drafted a report, which lasted nine months, and it comes to the same conclusions as I made and the associations put forward. We are still waiting for this plan against bed bugs. Of course, we will guarantee free care for the most vulnerable. We will also increase the number of compulsory social housing units in the municipalities, raising the quota by 30 per cent, and even more heavily punishing municipalities that do not comply with the law. Finally, the aim will be to combat the financialization of the housing sector, which is increasing the wealthiest. So we will tax the biggest real estate transactions, in order to abound a fund to combat unworthy housing. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] That, colleagues, is what a government will do to find a home for everyone. Having a dwelling is a right, Madam Minister Delegate. The majority and you seem to like the quotes of Abbé Pierre; Here is one addressed to you: "To govern is first to house his people. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u90	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u91	First of all, I would like to thank our colleagues in the La France group for placing housing policy on the agenda of this monitoring week and for giving us an opportunity to discuss it. Housing is essential to human dignity. It is a right of constitutional value. It is a major concern for the French, but unfortunately it has been one of the most sacrificed areas of the quinquennium. Unlike the practice of previous governments, he has never had a full-function ministry. Year after year, his budget has been cut. Some remember, we opened the mandate by examining a law on housing, development and digital development, known as ELAN, made up of all the drawer fund measures of Bercy's most liberal technocrats, that year after year they had failed to get adopted, and that they managed to get voted on when you came to power. On the one hand, the aim was to reduce aid for public housing and, on the other, to open the doors of the market. This has led to the paradoxical situation we are experiencing and the examination of the nation's effort in housing policy reveals. In addition to subsidies and VAT reductions, HLM housing aid, i.e. affordable housing, rose from €7 billion in 2010 to €4 billion in 2020. The budget for the zero-rate loan, which promotes home ownership, has been drastically reduced from €2.3 billion to €300 million. On the other hand, as a result of the defiscalisation, the amounts of public money spent on helping owners become multi-owners jumped from 1 billion in 2010 to 2.7 billion in 2020. This is how we produce an rent without any justification, which makes between the French the inequalities of income and wealth – even though we know the considerable weight of the heritage in terms of inequality. These figures hide historical contradictions. For more than a century, housing policy in France has been strong because it is backed by two legs, one private and the other public. All over Europe, those who had privatized housing policies at all costs, particularly in England and Germany, have come back to their choices, which had proved harmful, and have restored public intervention. You are going in the opposite direction: at the same time, you have reduced the scope of public intervention to further privatize the sector. This, of course, has produced only harmful effects: construction in half-mast, especially for HLM housing; explosion of the cost of housing in the household budget, which is the main cause of the deterioration of purchasing power; The right to effective housing (DALO) is an integral part of the right to effective housing. Our country is going through an unprecedented housing crisis, with its lot of distress and human tragedies; 15 million French people are suffering from poor housing conditions and 300,000 people are homeless, twice as many as in 2012 – men, women, children, families are experiencing a lot of misfortune. Elected from a popular suburb, I see every week how great their suffering is: dozens and dozens of people knock on my door to get help, which I provide them as much as possible, writing to each other to try to find solutions. Deputy Minister, housing policy needs to be completely reoriented. We must turn our backs on old liberal chimeras, which produce only injustice and have harmful effects in this field. Affordable housing must be helped, and those who are not homeowners must be helped to become homeowners. Stop encouraging those who are already multi-owners to further increase the number of housing units they own. [[Mrs Mathilde Panot applauds]] France invented HLM more than a century ago; There is a need to re-establish the policy of providing affordable housing. We have a public leg and a private leg: in the area of housing, the mixed economy is a strength. Remove the solidarity rent reduction scheme (RLS), which is a total injustice, and return to reduced rates of VAT and a genuine HLM housing aid, so that our country can return to the growth of affordable housing, in order to house those who need it most, that is, the French from popular circles.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u92	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u93	The word is in defense! More than 4 million French people are in poor housing, but what are we talking about? The question is not superficial. When I wrote my report on unworthy housing in 2019, I was surprised in particular by the accumulation of terms to name a multiple reality, which the term "unhousing" includes. At the same time, we are talking about unworthy housing, uncomfortable housing, heat sinks, too far away housing, too expensive housing, too small housing, and dangerous housing. This diversity of unbearable situations calls for a variety of responses, which our majority have tried to provide. The health crisis has revealed even more how housing is a central aspect of the crises that our country is experiencing. Housing too small prevented families from applying containment instructions; Degraded housing accelerated the spread of the disease and poorly equipped housing did not allow children to take distance courses or adults to telework, to name but a few examples. Questions about the causes of this situation are legitimate. It is a good tone to designate the state as responsible for all evils. I'd like to spread the burden of the crime a little differently. Beyond the budgetary and financial aspects, the state certainly has its responsibilities: Kafkai texts – I am thinking of the fight against unworthy housing; hypocritical measures taken pursuant to the DALO; lack of nuances – notably in the application of the Urban Solidarity and Renewal Act (SRU); Indigent accommodation – like cheap hotels in activity areas that become social by their residents alone. However, it would be unfair to forget that our society is sometimes reluctant to accept new housing, that the challenge of the 2020 municipal elections has often been not to have one more resident in the commune, as well as to forget that some degraded neighbourhoods have been the subject of more electoral than of general interest concerns. Of course, we must comment on the action of the State. This government has acted strongly and structurally. In order to solve the problem of inadequate housing, the most dramatic situations must be addressed, in particular those of persons in unworthy housing, persons without a roof, and persons in danger. The Government has made an unprecedented effort to simplify the procedures for resorption of unworthy housing and to strengthen the fight against sleep merchants, including through a major partnership with Housing Action, with over €1 billion. Significant financial efforts have been made to increase the number of emergency accommodation spaces. France now has 200000 open places for the year. The "housing first" plan – a five-year plan for housing first and the fight against homelessness – led to the referral of 300,000 beneficiaries of emergency housing to housing. Also in partnership with Housing Action, there will be 9,000 shelters for women victims of violence by the end of 2022. This has also led to the possibility for existing housing units to accommodate their inhabitants in satisfactory conditions of comfort and price. A real reorientation of public policy has been made with regard to housing renewal and new production. The Action Cœur de Ville plan, deployed in conjunction with the entry into force of the ELAN law, has helped to regain city centres deserted by their shops as well as by their inhabitants. The National Agency for Urban Renewal (ANRU) envelope has doubled from €5 billion to €11 billion. On the other hand, the majority have been involved in the fight against thermal colanders. Thus, from 2025 onwards, the law of 22 August 2021, known as climate and resilience, will prohibit them from being rented out. The recovery plan will contribute in particular. In doing so, the Government acts both on the comfort of housing and on the purchasing power of the inhabitants, as well as on climate change. Regarding the preservation of purchasing power, he created the energy check, which has 5.8 million beneficiaries. I want to come back here to a false trial. I don't think I'm betraying the majority by saying that the uniform 5 euro drop in the APL, at the beginning of the mandate, was not his happiest initiative. However, it was justified: the inflationary effect of LPAs in the free sector is obvious, it absorbs more than two thirds of the resource. Lowering the amount of LPAs in social housing to lower rents and to increase aid for construction and renovation was a measure of efficiency and justice. Assistance to families must serve families; investment decisions must be financed specifically. In the same way, I defend the reorganization measures of the sector aimed at bringing out stronger actors, who mutualize support functions and share their expertise. These measures do not tend to abandon social housing, but to redefine the sector's economy for greater efficiency. Moreover, the Government's support for the economy has also benefited from the partnership with social housing actors. In March 2021, the Government signed a protocol with the Social Housing Union (USH), Housing Action and the Bank of the Territories, which aims in particular to programme 250,000 social rental housing between 2021 and 2022. This assessment, which you defend, Madam Deputy Minister – dear Emmanuelle Wargon – together with Julien Denormandie, is in the honor of this majority. In the near future, you will add the measures of the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action (3DS), which will be voted on shortly. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr. Vincent Ledoux also applauds]] Is that to say that this fundamental political action is closed? This is obviously not the case. Again, the health crisis raises questions and leads to the opening of new construction sites, particularly with regard to housing for key jobs. The development of telework will lead to a redevelopment of the territory. The effects of the crisis on large commercial areas will lead to a different question of soil artificialization. These are the construction sites that are in front of us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u94	Mr Thibault Bazin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u95	In the context of the last week of control of the Government by the National Assembly of this legislature, one of the last parliamentary debates is devoted to mal-housing, which affects the daily lives of many of our fellow citizens. I would like to thank Mrs Mathilde Panot and her group for having chosen this theme and thus giving us the opportunity to take stock of the policy pursued. In 2017, our country still had 4 million poorly housed people. I suggest that you remind us of Emmanuel Macron's programme in this area five years ago.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u96	Excellent exercise!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u97	To meet the challenge, his promises were tempting: to provoke a shock of the offer by relaunching the construction of real estate; to provide students and young people with 600,000 new housing units and 20,000 new ones, respectively; offer a roof to all the homeless. Five years later, what about it? Because of the unfulfilled promises, Emmanuel Macron's housing record is deeply disappointing. Between 2017 and 2020, the number of building permits issued annually will have decreased steadily from 497000 to 381600. Construction starts, which are the most important, followed the same trend, from 430000 to 376000. From collective housing to individual houses, no category has been spared by the shortage. The offer shock did not take place, on the contrary. This was already the case before the health crisis and the renewal of municipal councils. Since the launch of the "housing first" plan in 2017, the number of homeless households and out-of-home residents in the social park has increased steadily. Accompanied habitat production figures are below targets. Candidate Macron said: "In order to build more affordable housing, it is not necessary to make construction more expensive and complex than it already is. Between 2017 and the summer of 2021, the cost of new and old real estate increased by more than 18.5%: again, it is a failure. The French must devote an increasing share of their income to housing. Why the failure? Because of a chaotic policy, removing all visibility and creating a climate of concern: removal, in 2017, of the aid scheme for mayors building, finally to restore it under another name in 2020; between 2018 and 2022, the zero-rate loan scheme has been extended three times, but mainly modified twice regarding its access conditions and substantially planed for 95% of the territory; the contemporaneization of aid and income, announced, has finally been abandoned; already mentioned, in particular by Stéphane Peu, the decrease of five euros per month of the APLs, since the summer of 2017, has had a disastrous effect, not to mention the decrease in the investment capacity of the HLM organisations. When it is thought that candidate Macron claimed to continue the production of social housing "at the same level" as in previous years. Again, there has been a decline in production since 2018, following the measures taken by the Government at the beginning of the quinquennium! And what about the plan of the APL accession scheme, which nevertheless allowed modest households to access the property? The middle classes have been severely penalized by President Macron's housing policy. Let us not forget the constantly amended decrees – such as those relating to the diagnosis of energy performance (DPE) or to the renovation – which mislead artisans who can no longer do so. However, candidate Macron promised, in 2017, "the stability of standards": this was not the case. Candidate Macron also promised to renovate half of the energy colanders of the most precarious owners by 2022. Even though the pace – I concede it to you – has accelerated for two years, the first three years of the quinquennium have not fulfilled half of the goals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u98	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u99	Finally, there is an undeniable delay compared to the expected renovations: another unfulfilled promise! While €37.6 billion is dedicated to housing policy, mal-housing is only progressing, as a result of an inappropriate policy. Unaccommodation is the size of the housing often unsuitable for the family, it is the energy precariousness, it is too concentrated housing creating problems of living environment, it is the impossibility of responding to the demands of private outdoor spaces. It must be said that we now know your opinion on the individual house, Madam Deputy Minister, which is, however, supported by the French. You have nevertheless kept a promise – unfortunate – that of concentrating aid on hyper-metropolies. By doing so, you have penalized 95 per cent of the territory. Your housing policy echoes the failing policy of spatial planning. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Sylvia Pinel also applauds]] Let us now hope to change in the spring, so that housing is better considered, property is better respected and ownership is better valued. After the quinquennium failed in terms of housing, the challenge of "well-being" remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u100	Mr Christophe Blanchet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u101	Housing – the home – is the place where we find ourselves, together with our loved ones, in the privacy of our home. We rest there after a day of effort, with our habits; We can live there, alone or as a family. It is therefore an exclusive place, which must meet the best conditions so that we can, when we leave, confront the outside world. With the health crisis and the confinements it caused, we were all brutally sent back to our homes, sometimes for the best, sometimes for the worst. I am thinking of all our compatriots who have suffered from violence during these imposed times of proximity. When you are poorly housed, the home can bring real suffering: whether it is a dwelling poorly insulated from cold or noise; that it is an old-fashioned housing, which requires too much work; it is too small a dwelling where one walks on; This is an unhealthy housing that threatens health. There are many causes of malaccommodation. Its effects are indecent. The Abbé-Pierre Foundation attests that more than 4 million people are suffering from this situation. The question of housing is that of dignity, of the place of man in society, of the place that one occupies in life. The Government has not demerited, putting in place multiple aids: the bonus of 1000 euros for young people who settle for the first time; the accession bonus of 10000 euros, for those who become owners; the MaPrimeRenov' device, for thermal insulation work. Although the project has been started, there are, however, five areas for improvement. First of all, proposals were made in the report by our colleague Jean-Luc Lagleize on the cost of land in construction, including inventive solutions, such as the dissociation between land and buildings, which makes it possible to acquire property at a lower cost. Where the land is too expensive, the buyer can, thanks to the solidarity rental lease, become owner of the housing, but not of the land. However, there are fewer and fewer constructions: we need to build more and, at the same time, it is imperative to rehabilitate existing housing, whether it is social housing or not. Another avenue to be explored – I have already mentioned it several times in this Chamber – is Articles 200 and 238a of the General Tax Code. They concern the possibility, for both individuals and businesses, of receiving a tax receipt from an association to which they make a donation in order to deduct part of its amount from their taxes. These articles also take into account donations in kind. How can we make this system better known to associations and to the 2.9 million owners who leave vacant housing, for fear of unpaid housing or deterioration? How can I present this to them? For it allows those who lend to do both a good action, to be secure in the face of unpaid payments or degradations, and, in addition, to receive a tax receipt. Thirdly, the housing market also suffers from some inertia, partly from taxation. Consider, for example, the sale of a secondary residence or a rental investment, for which the capital gains realized are exempt from taxes after twenty-two years: is it still reasonable, while the costs of real estate are blazing? Allowing such an exemption for 15 or 10 years would help boost the market by reintroducing more than 3 million housing units. As a result of this massive influx, costs would fall for first-time entrants, especially since owners who sell before the twenty-two-year deadline could set prices that would no longer take into account capital gains tax. Fourthly, another major cause of inadequate housing, too often hidden, comes from noise pollution. This one, coming from outside or caused by neighbours, is of great penitibility. Whether you live in the city or in the countryside, noisy habitat is poor quality housing. However, while our public policies take poorly isolated homes into account, sound isolation is the great forgotten. While our legislation imposes strict thermal standards, it does little to promote sound insulation. Why not include them with those affected by MaPrimeRenov'? Finally, fifth and final point, I have recently drawn the Government's attention to the MaPrimeRenov' scheme, because since 1 January, those who want to benefit from it have had to own it for 15 years, as opposed to two years earlier. However, I have been told of several cases of French who have been taken short by this change. How can we envisage remedies or additional time limits, for those who started their project at the end of 2021, and who have been deprived of this aid since 1 January 2022? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Mr. Vincent Ledoux also applauds]] Unaccommodation is a subject on which we have all been involved. In spite of this, there is still a need for information, access to aid, or to revitalize a captive real estate market. Given that housing construction is one of the few policies that create employment, we are pleased that it has indeed been taken into account in the recovery plan.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u102	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u103	It is a fact that the number of homeless – homeless – and ill-housed people continues to increase, despite the places – more numerous since the covid – unlocked by the associations that accompany them. Their number reflects the realities of families, pensioners and young adults, who must remind us of our mission as elected representatives of the Republic. For them, we must act, forcefully. The policy of "whatever it costs" must return to the front of the stage and apply to the homeless and the homeless. More than 2 million people are still waiting for social housing and more than 4 million are poorly housed. Some households are still waiting, while they are among the priority audiences and should be able to access housing within a few months. Faced with this sad fact, the Government boasts a rebound of 8 per cent in the annual production of social housing, in 2021, taking as a benchmark the year 2020, a catastrophic year for the creation of housing. We can even hear the minister responsible for housing defending the social balance sheet of the Government on the plateaus. It is ironic that in five years the nation's housing assistance effort has declined from 1.82% to 1.63% of GDP! What an audacity to boast of having succeeded, when the Court of Auditors, report after report, cast doubt on the Government for its inaction in terms of housing policy! The last, the one of 26 January 2022, pins the State, whose action does not allow the effectiveness of the right to effective housing. This system, unique in the world, drawn from the law of 5 March 2007, under the impetus of the world of associations and Abbé Pierre, aims to entrust the State with the obligation to quickly house the most precarious families. This law is based on a simple assumption: it is not acceptable, and it is not acceptable, that citizens do not have a roof. A country like France must live up to the social challenges, whose housing is a cornerstone. But today, what results? Less than half of the households eligible for DALO were resettled within the time limits set by law, of which less than 20% in Île-de-France! That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen: a visible disengagement during the first year of the health crisis, since the social housing sector did not benefit from any recovery plan in the first year. This is an economic aberration, while everyone knows the importance of the construction sector for recovery, ecological transition and, of course, employment. Worse, the state is taking €1.3 billion per year from the HLM, to compensate for the drop in the APL – which marked the beginning of the quinquennium – affecting their tenants. What a political and strategic error in investment, since everyone knows that it penalizes social donors, supposed to invest to renovate and maintain a social park that is sometimes degraded! It is also a mistake in terms of public finances, since every year the State is forced to increase its emergency accommodation expenditure: the number 115, which calls on the hotel sector, is expensive and inadequate for families, not to mention the more and more heavy periodic payments. The day after the 15th anniversary of the death of Abbé Pierre, on the eve of the publication of the report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre on the state of mal-housing in France, which will undoubtedly take up some of the elements I mention, the associations demand the construction of 150,000 social housing units per year, of which 600,000 are in rental loan aided integration (PLAI). I remember the following words, spoken by Abbot Peter: "Perhaps the day is approaching when it will be possible, where it will appear as an obvious necessity to launch some huge sacred loan to which it could not be touched for anything other than housing". I am elected from a territory where Abbé Pierre resided, he who was a citizen of honour in the commune of Alfortville: his apartment has become a family pension and we are committed to being faithful to his commitment. [[Mrs Sylvia Pinel and Mr Stéphane Little applaud]] In many territories, the challenges of social mix also call for consideration of the most precarious, and we cannot constantly take refuge behind the SRU law because we find that the municipalities prefer to pay a financial penalty rather than to house social housing. Remember, social housing is 70% of the French, it is a large part of nurses, police officers, people who work every day and were on the front line. They are our first lines and many of us are part of them. In the decisive period that begins, housing must be one of the major players in an ambitious policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u104	Mr Vincent Ledoux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u105	More than seventy-five years ago, Henri Grouès sat on these benches. The fight of Abbé Pierre continues and his voice continues to carry. Today, we are discussing the issue of mal-housing, while the Fondation Abbé-Pierre will present its report on Wednesday. This debate is an opportunity to take stock of our action. With the ELAN Act, accessibility to housing, social cohesion and social housing have been strengthened, while building more, better and cheaper. The MaPrimeRenov' scheme, launched in 2020, has increased the energy renovation work of buildings so that the most precarious are not doubly penalized. Bill 3DS has perpetuated the SRU system by making it more effective. The Agir ensemble group is committed to introducing a real social mix and to fighting ghettoisation in the communes. But the debate must above all be an opportunity to propose avenues for the future. There are still many challenges ahead; The most urgent is that of old age. From now on, we need to rethink the housing of our elders, especially for those who find themselves in great insecurity. Housing must be tailor-made, accessible, quickly available, depending on the health and mobility of the resident – we know how much the degradation can unfortunately be very rapid and take the person and his family short. The solution is not always to end his life in EHPAD, but the news shows it again. The social housing of today and tomorrow must therefore adapt to this demand which is not sufficiently satisfied. This week again, a woman asked me for her sick dad who needed a house on the ground floor, but mostly with a shower. I asked this person why his owner didn't want to replace the bathtub with a shower – a trivial question that was important. The woman's answer: because she doesn't want to. Housing for the elderly is therefore not just the case of the State. This is the business of society as a whole. In the face of the challenges of the old age that lie ahead in our society, we must therefore rethink a real residential path, which requires first of all to conduct the great debate on the old age. The ill-housing of old age is also a form of abuse that we must put an end to. I was also alerted by the Mayor of Tourcoing and her deputy about the difficulties faced by social donors and manufacturers in the face of rising commodity prices. The first response was the signing of a charter of good practice with the Fédération française du bâtiment, in order to be able to fulfil construction objectives. This is a good initiative taken at the local level, which makes it possible to counter the speech of weeping women heard earlier. Another difficulty is the availability of accommodation for many reasons. For example, 800 dwellings remain abandoned in Tourcoing, while the available land is increasingly scarce and the demand for housing is increasing. What can we do to solve this problem that Tourcoing encounters as many municipalities? I would also like to comment on the difficulties encountered by tenants living in unhealthy housing. Some find themselves deprived in the face of sometimes indifferent donors who would not fulfill their duties. The procedures are unknown. So, Madam Deputy Minister, can you remind us of the mediation procedure that these tenants can use? Finally, if I do not do so, I would like to finish my speech with a thought for the victims of natural disasters who find themselves in a precarious situation, which is poorly housed because of material damage. We will have to better accompany those victims, who will be more and more numerous as a result of climate change. This support requires better upstream prevention and better downstream compensation. On 15 February, the Court of Auditors is to submit a report on natural disasters related to the withdrawal and swelling of clay, at the request of the National Assembly's Public Policy Review and Monitoring Committee. I am co-rapporteur of an informal mission to revise the rules for the recognition of the state of natural disaster. I will certainly return to you, Madam Deputy Minister, to move the lines before the end of this Parliament and to prepare for the future. Let us not deprive ourselves of quoting Abbé Pierre, who said: "We must not wait until we are perfect to start something good."
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u106	If you had to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u107	We started something good...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u108	The associations say the opposite!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u109	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] ... and we must now strive for perfection, which I have no doubt about.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u110	You will see if the report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre is a report of "worryers", since these are your words!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u111	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u112	In 2017, at the beginning of the quinquennium, the President of the Republic proposed an ambitious housing programme after consultation with the associations concerned. Voted in 2018, the ELAN Act aimed to facilitate housing construction and protect the most vulnerable: building better and cheaper, changing social housing, meeting the needs of everyone and improving the living environment. We are at the end of the legislature and mal-housing is always a reality. In a press release, the United Nations Collective Associations states that "the majority of HLM housing production and allocation targets have not been met." Housing is essentially a long-term issue; It requires anticipation and political ambition. The IDU and independent group that I represent notes that French people still do not have housing, that households live in unsanitary conditions and that some people's residential mobility is blocked. We want a territorialised policy, adapted to the basins of life, to be carried out. Rather than "building more" by conducting a centralized policy, we advocate "building better" through territorial anchoring. The ambition to build better is based on the desire to develop better, i.e. to develop for health and for social cohesion and diversity. It also means developing by integrating mobility needs, protecting and promoting biodiversity, and taking into account climate change and its consequences for our cities and villages; a comprehensive approach to quality of life and housing. Beyond the private planners to whom these concepts must be imposed, we believe it is necessary to increase the resources of public land institutions and to provide for an increase in the power of land observatories. Access to housing and residential mobility are complicated, especially for those called modest and very modest. In the rural part of my territory, the mayors, real estate agencies and notaries notify me of an increase in requests for rental housing that they are struggling to satisfy. At the same time, while our villages want to live and offer housing to their population, young and old alike, HLM organizations are reluctant to come and develop new programs, arguing distance from public transport and presenting other reasons difficult to hear. They give us the vacancy rate of their dwellings which they do not rent, moreover, because they would be too old, too energy-intensive, too large and, as a result, have too high rents. In addition to the unfortunately chronic housing deficit, there is a lack of housing in the existing one, which includes unhealthy, indecent, or precarious housing. As I know from experience, peril procedures are lengthy and complex. They require expertise that requires the intervention of many actors. Sleep merchants abuse vulnerable people in situations of dependency who find themselves forced to live in conditions of other times. The France Rénov' service is a good step forward: it helps to meet the need for housing rehabilitation, as it allows the housing to be renovated in its entirety, going beyond a simple change of boiler in a non-isolated housing. However, one month after its entry into force, we note that its link with some existing arrangements, such as the planned habitat improvement operations (HAMPs), or certain bodies, such as local energy and climate agencies, must be adjusted. To amplify the benefits of this service, it is essential to improve and accelerate its coordination. Work on social housing needs to be stepped up to reduce the social divide reinforced by the health crisis. Access to decent and sustainable housing is imperative; all aspects of the issue of malaccommodation must be addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u113	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u114	First of all, I thank the La France group for putting the debate on housing policy on the agenda of our House. Having decent housing is a basic aspiration. However, more than 4 million people in France do not have housing or suffer from degraded housing conditions. Of course, the health crisis has worsened these difficulties. It has further isolated homeless people and has made it difficult for millions of French people to live confined to too small and sometimes unhealthy spaces. The return of economic activity to normal brought with it hopes for an improvement in the situation. Unfortunately, on a daily basis, our citizens continue to suffer the consequences of the housing crisis. The continued increase in rent prices is delaying access to autonomy for students and young workers. The rise in energy prices is synonymous with difficult endings for precarious households. Access to rights services and social support are becoming more widespread every day. These difficulties are old and well known. Of course, there is no easy cure but this quinquennium ends without improving the deal. The promises of a supply shock and a strong rise in housing have been disappointed. First of all, I recognize a significant increase in the capacity of the general emergency accommodation fleet, whose number of places has increased from 130000 to 200000. But the lasting solutions are still too limited. The evidence is that hotel stays have increased at the same rate as the entire accommodation park and the number of places in accommodation and social reintegration centres has remained almost stable. For a large part of them, the most precarious remain confined to emergency solutions that do not allow them to emerge from the crisis. In addition, despite obvious needs for the production of affordable housing, the Government has continued to weaken social donors. In the first few months of the quinquennium, you reduced the amount of the APL by 5 euros and imposed the reduction of the solidarity rent, which weighed 1.3 billion euros per year on the finances of the social donors. Unsurprisingly, the production of social housing has fallen. In 2021, there were about 95,000 social housing approvals. We are far from the peak of 123,000 amenities achieved in 2016, but also very far from the 125,000 target you set yourself. The consequences of this policy are visible. Today, the social housing stock is largely insufficient to meet the growing demand of the many designated priority audiences. This calls into question the effectiveness of the right to effective housing, which, as the Court of Auditors has pointed out, has become a source of disillusionment. To be objective and fair, it is true, Madam Deputy Minister, that some decisions taken at the end of the quinquennium are in the right direction. The Finance Act for 2022 provides for full compensation for the exemption from land tax on built properties – TFPB – for intermediate social housing, which should give donors a little air. The extension of the SRU law would also be good news if the version of this provision adopted by the National Assembly, resulting from Bill 3DS, were passed. However, these measures are delayed while housing policy is long-term. Moreover, they will not make it possible to raise the bar of a quinquennium characterized by underinvestments and budget cuts affecting some of the mechanisms that have proved their worth. I regret that you have been terminated or planed a number of home ownership tools, delaying the purchase of a house or apartment by some people. By cascade effect, this amounts to preventing the most fragile from having a roof. Indeed, ensuring decent housing for all requires action on all segments of housing policy, in order to facilitate the fluidity of residential routes. Finally, to suffer from poor housing is also to live on a daily basis in unsanitary homes, poorly isolated or with too small surfaces. In the fight against unworthy housing, efforts must be stepped up in order to better identify the dwellings concerned, particularly in the private park. With regard to energy renewal, measures have been taken. Nevertheless, aid devices such as MaPrimeRenov' still target 86% of simple isolated, low-performance renovation gestures with little impact on energy spending and comfort. The work often remains too expensive for the most modest households. Finally, regarding the improvement of habitat quality, one of your great proposals is the redesign of the system that bears my name. I fear that by restricting too much the criteria for benefiting from it, you would undermine the incentives for construction and, ultimately, for everyone to have access to housing. In reality, the Government's will is to achieve budgetary savings by making access more complex and defining criteria that can only be achieved in a difficult way. Because the shock of the promised supply is still waiting, the "housing first" plan has not translated into sustainable housing solutions and the poorest remain the great forgotten of the last five years, this five-year period will have been that of disappointing housing ambitions. It is high time that this issue became a priority of our public policies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u115	The next speaker is the Minister for Housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u116	"Governance is first of all to house his people," said Abbé Pierre, as Mrs Mathilde Panot recalled – it is normal that we should all refer to him in a debate on mal-housing. This subject is both a strong concern of the French and – I reiterate – one of the Government's priorities for action. Two days before the publication of the annual report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre on mal-housing, it is also a topical subject. I welcome the choice of your assembly to put this major issue on the agenda. Let us be clear: the Government's priority is to provide adequate housing for its people and to ensure that everyone has access to decent housing. For this, we have struggled since 2017 against the multiple faces of mal-housing. We are waging this struggle for those who are fragile in their housing, that is, for those who live in unhealthy housing, who are victims of sleep merchants, or who are in a situation of energy insecurity. We are waging this struggle for those who are homeless or in emergency accommodation, and who must be accompanied on their journey to housing. Finally, we support as much as possible the development of affordable housing, primarily in the area of social and very social housing. First, we have carried out very concrete actions to improve living conditions in housing. Under this quinquennium, we have attacked the unhealthy and degraded dwellings and the sleep merchants who exploit them. As early as 2018, with the ELAN law, we made essential provisions against the sleep merchants who had been left for too long in a quasi-impunity. We are now hitting them in the wallet by systematically confiscating their assets. We have introduced an obligation for trustees and real estate agencies to report any suspicion of sleep merchants. No one had the courage to do so so far. We also chose to take the subject of unworthy habitat by arm-the-body. We have created a single housing policy, simplifying the procedures – I welcome the work of MP Guillaume Vuilletet on this subject. Our action has had very concrete effects: since 2017, 700 million euros have been committed by the National Housing Agency (ANAH) and have enabled the treatment of 62,000 unworthy housing units. Each time, thanks to this mobilization, lives are changed. The State also accompanies the city and the metropolis of Marseille, with the necessary resources and staff, following the drama of the rue d'Aubagne in 2018. I was in Marseille this morning to see with the elected representatives the progress in setting up operational intervention mechanisms for the city centre. We also cared about degraded condominiums. The Condominium Initiative plan we launched in 2018 provides a budget of €2.7 billion for ten years; 500 million have already been committed by ANAH in three years to rehabilitate nearly 100,000 homes. We act in parallel against another face of indignity, that of energy insecurity. In fact, nearly 5 million homes are energy passoires. To put an end to this intolerable situation, we rely on the massive energy renovation of our homes: this is the fight that I led as Secretary of State for Ecology yesterday and that I continue as Minister of Housing today. For this – and I am proud to claim it – we have put in place a single, simpler, more readable and fairer aid: MaPrimeRenov', which has been a success since 2020. Compared to the existing energy transition tax credit (ISCED), this aid focuses more on low-income households and brings them out of energy poverty on a sustainable basis. In 2021, nearly 660,000 cases were committed, amounting to more than 2 billion euros. Of this amount, nearly EUR 1.3 billion benefits households with modest incomes. I am proud to defend the record of this policy on behalf of the President of the Republic and the Government. We are far from the incantatory objectives of the law on the energy transition for green growth desired by the previous socialist government, which laid down a principle without any means. We act as close as possible to the French: in partnership with the local authorities, we launched on 1 January 2022 a public service of the renovation of the habitat, France Renov ', which is unique and simple access. It will be a welcoming place, where to find listening and answers, with the aim of improving the habitat, in particular in order to support the French for the most ambitious renovation projects. At the same time, we have made major advances in the fight against thermal colanders thanks to the "climate and resilience" law. We prohibited the leasing of these colanders from 2025, for G-classed dwellings, and 2028 for F-classed dwellings on a phased schedule and based these prohibitions on a new diagnosis of opposable energy performance. We have made an audit mandatory when selling houses that are thermal coffers and multi-year work plans for condominiums. Our government has had the courage to introduce rules that will change the daily lives of the French and that will accompany them to get out of energy poverty, improve their comfort and gain purchasing power. I would now like to refer to the Government's efforts to provide housing for homeless people. It must be said very clearly, far from exaggeration and political controversy. It is estimated that more than 300,000 people are homeless in France, but this does not mean that 300,000 people are sleeping on the street, because the vast majority are accommodated: 200,000 people are in general accommodation, each evening, and 100,000 people are in the framework of the national reception scheme for asylum seekers. An estimate, which will be updated thanks to the INSEE census this year, shows that about 10,000 people sleep on the street every night; It's obviously 10,000 people too much. I fight for them every day. Such figures force us, collectively, to be humble and determined. It is with determination that we have increased the budget for housing and accompaniment to housing by EUR 1 billion between the last budget of François Hollande's quinquennium and the last budget of this legislature. With these exceptional means, we have taken unprecedented action in the area of shelter. We increased the number of emergency accommodation spaces by 50% to 200,000 in the spring of 2021. Above all, we put an end to the management of the thermometer, which led to the closure of emergency accommodation spaces as soon as it was a little colder to reopen them the following fall. This is a historic step forward that was expected by the players in the sector; Indeed, we owe this protection to people in summer and winter. We are developing the multi-year trajectory of these places with the managing associations, whose daily and unwavering commitment I want to stress to people in great difficulty. The "housing first" plan, which has been operational since the beginning of 2018, demonstrates a profound change of approach. The results are already there. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, more than 330,000 people have accessed the accommodation from the street or from accommodation. To this end, we have created 32,000 rental intermediation places and 5000 places in a family pension. The allocation of social housing to people from the street or accommodation increased by 45% between 2017 and 2021. This policy is not carried out by the State alone, but by the forty-five territorial authorities involved with it in the territories where this plan is implemented in an accelerated manner. I want to thank them by recalling how they have contributed to these very encouraging results. In addition, we have taken offensive action to keep households in their homes by strengthening the prevention of rental evictions. We have extended the winter truce three times since the start of the health crisis. We also worked with the prefects to reduce the number of evictions, from 16700 in 2019, to half of this figure in 2020. I have given instructions that they all take place with a rehousing solution or, at least, with accommodation. We also strengthened prevention, with the creation of mobile teams to reach people who did not seek social services but who were in difficult situations to limit the risk of expulsion. Finally, we have created a fund to help unpaid rents in support of the Solidarity Fund for Housing. I would like to commend the work carried out with great humanity by the deputy Nicolas Demoulin, whose proposals to prevent the rental evictions presented in 2021 have been valuable and, for some, have already been translated into law. Finally, any policy to combat homelessness must be based on the offensive, optimistic and proactive development of affordable housing. Following a 2020 year that saw the production of housing plunged as a result of the health crisis, we supported an efficient and rapid revival of construction. The results are here: construction resumed at a very good pace: 470,000 building permits were issued in 2021. Despite a quinquennium marked by an unprecedented health crisis, another 100,000 building permits were issued during this quinquennium compared to the previous quinquennium, which was not displeased by the Cassandre on both the left and the right. This figure is not an end in itself and it does not reflect certain disparities: I regret that the recovery is not of the same magnitude for collective housing and in tense areas and that some communities or cities issue very few building permits for collective housing. They have a significant share of responsibility for the French who are waiting for housing and for the future of our country. Within construction, of course, I pay particular attention to social housing, where the middle classes as well as our most modest fellow citizens live. It is a model that I claim and which we can be proud of. At the beginning of 2021 I concluded an ambitious protocol with the HLM movement, the Caisse des dépôts et Action logement, which sets an exceptional level of 1.5 billion euros of stone aid over two years to support the construction of social housing. In order to encourage communities to allow social housing operations, the Government wanted to include in the 2022 Finance Act the full compensation to communities of the ten-year exemption from property tax on social housing. This is a major step forward proposed by François Rebsamen and many other elected members of the committee that the Prime Minister and I have asked him to form. In 2021, while social housing production rebounded by 8% compared to 2020, it is not enough. We were hoping better. Of course, this marks a positive inflection, but we must continue to mobilize. It should be noted, however, that PLAI's production, which is aimed at people in precarious situations, has increased by 10%, according to consolidated data, compared to the last quinquennium. In addition, the production of adapted PLAI, at very low rents, has more than tripled since 2017. In order to support the development of long-term social housing, this government has proposed, under Bill 3DS, to perpetuate the provisions of section 55 of the SRU Act and the obligation of municipalities to build social housing. The Joint Joint Committee meeting on this text is currently being held. I would like to welcome the work carried out by the rapporteur, Mickaël Nogal, and by the majority on this text as a whole. While some propose the abolition of social housing, we have defended its sustainability, with some adaptations, all in a concrete and realistic partnership with local elected representatives, both on the right and on the left. Finally, because the development of affordable housing and social mix also involves the private park, I would like to highlight the fact that we have extended and reopened the regulation of rents in Bill 3DS to new applications. We have also overhauled the Affordable Rent Scheme, now known as "Loc' Advantages", to encourage more owners of existing properties to rent them on the rental market at a lower price than the market price for the main residence of households with limited incomes. As you can see, the fight against mal-housing is a fight that this government has waged on all fronts: the fight against unsanitaryness and energy insecurity, the protection of homeless people and their support for housing, support for models of social housing and affordable housing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The effects of some of the measures adopted during this quinquennium will be appreciated during the next quinquennium. This fight requires perseverance and continuity. We're ready for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u117	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u118	According to the Fondation Abbé-Pierre, the situation of a third of French people has deteriorated since the beginning of the health crisis. This affects the most vulnerable people, nearly half of whom are young people between the ages of 18 and 24 and up to 55% of PLAs beneficiaries. They find it difficult to pay their rent and live in housing that is sometimes at risk. The Abbé-Pierre Foundation gives significant figures that show the reality of many people's lives. However, part of the forgotten France suffers all the more from this mal-housing: the overseas, where the unworthy habitat is gaining ground. For example, how many Reunions live with children in homes that are not suitable? I let you imagine, Madam Deputy Minister, the consequences for the education and health of children. Let's not forget that 30,000 people do not have access to hot water, that more than 1,000 main residences do not have electricity and that more than 6,000 homes do not have baths, showers or toilets. Many buildings are unsanitary and degraded. The situation is no different in the other overseas countries, where many families refuse housing in poor condition. Why is the state not renovating existing housing? It is unacceptable that in a country like ours, French people still live in unworthy conditions without anything being done to help them. To this, add the increase in rent costs! Many French people wonder how to decide between dressing their child, eating, honouring their bills of water, electricity or paying their rent. The Fondation Abbé-Pierre has, however, sounded an alarm at the increasing precarisation of the populations of overseas and of France in general. Furthermore, the issue of access to housing should not be dissociated from the issue of security of property and persons. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Minister-in-Charge, the problem is very real: do you recognize your failure? What emergency solutions do you recommend?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u119	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u120	You call my attention to the specific situation in the overseas countries, and you are right: we must act with the same motivation, because situations are sometimes difficult. We have also significantly increased the number of overseas accommodation places by 60%; Today we reach 2000 places. We have created emergency shelters, especially for women victims of violence – 146 places – but also for highly marginalized people – 65 places – in Guyana, Martinique and La Réunion. We finance the renovation of the accommodation centres and day receptions: for example, in La Réunion, your territory, in 2021 we started the renovation of five accommodation and social reintegration centres (CHRS) and four day receptions. Accommodation, however, is only the first step in a journey to housing. We have developed the "housing first" policy in the overseas territories, with four accelerated implementation territories: Mayotte, Martinique, Guyana and La Réunion. For access to sustainable and affordable housing, the Overseas Housing 2 plan, which covers the years 2019 to 2022, combined new laws and regulations with increasing means since the single budget line increased by 20% between 2020 and 2022. This plan is also supported by Housing Action. To really meet the needs of each territory – I was in Reunion some time ago – it will be better adapted to local specificities. As for the results, we built and rehabilitated 11,350 social housing units in the overseas countries in 2021, compared to 8300 in 2020 and less than 7,000 in 2019. The ambition is there.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u121	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u122	I am the interpreter of Mrs Karine Lebon, who has been detained at La Réunion. Much of the overseas malhousing is related to the scarcity of land, which is exacerbated by the inextricable problem of estate indivision. The law of 27 December 2018, known as the Letchimy law, installs a modus vivendi which, even if it is not perennial, is indispensable to resolve complex situations that the common law could not solve. Thanks to this law, solutions are beginning to be found, but notaries, who are the working-class ankle, have to settle unprocessed successions over several generations in less than ten years now. They face the lack of title and cascading indivisions, some of which date back to the post-slavery period. They must also ensure the publicity of these new measures in territories where the weight of traditions weighs on people for whom the use of the notary is not obvious. If a determined notary succeeds in overcoming all these obstacles and finally manages to share the undivided good, it is still necessary for the families concerned to agree to bear the costs of this process. At the October 2020 congress of notaries, the keeper of the seals reminded overseas notaries that their involvement was essential for the implementation of this law. Deputy Minister, we must help the indivisors to know and accept the procedure set out in this legislation. Communities are already taking their share of responsibility in the acquisition of title. But the involvement of the State is also essential, and notaries expect specific financial assistance from you to finance the costs of exiting the division. How do you intend to participate in this collective effort?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u123	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u124	I welcome your colleague Karine Lebon, whom I regret that she was retained. The issue of indivision is essential throughout the overseas regions. In Martinique, 26% of the land is concerned, and I know that this figure is also significant in Réunion. These problems of indivision lead to lack of title, which penalizes the indivisors; Indivision makes it more difficult to mobilize land to build, and ultimately leads to the abandonment of property that eventually constitutes warts in cities. Finally, the lack of land supply resulting from these phenomena is driving prices upwards and weakening the fiscal potential of communities. A first answer, as you said, is provided by the Letchimy law, which relaxes the right of ownership in order to better mobilize land, in particular by allowing the sale or sharing of undivided property by the majority and not by unanimity of the indivisors. This law is a step forward; It proposes a ten-year experiment. In fact, I recognize that it has little application, particularly in La Réunion. The Government pays close attention to the situation. We started by securing the legislative framework with a decree, adopted in 2020, to address the concerns of notaries on advertising formalities. It is ultimately up to the notaries, as you said, to take full advantage of these provisions, as the keeper of the seals once again said at their congress in October 2020. A review of the Letchimy law will be prepared this year by the Directorate-General for Overseas Affairs (DGOM). The State will closely monitor its implementation and, where appropriate, take the necessary additional measures. Finally, with regard more generally to the availability of land in Réunion, the Overseas Housing 2 plan, which covers the years 2019 to 2022, has maintained the level of construction on the island and doubled the number of rehabilitations in that territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u125	Mrs Ramlati Ali has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u126	Unaccommodation is a national reality which is expressed with particular acuity in the ultramarine territories, and especially in Mayotte. Social housing and the fight against unworthy and unhealthy housing are a real challenge in the overseas world. The Ministry of Overseas Affairs has 110,000 unsanitary housing units, or 12 per cent of the total stock of 900000 housing units. In its twenty-sixth annual report on mal-housing in France, the Fondation Abbé-Pierre states that by adding informal undeclared housing or housing deemed unhealthy by the external aspect of the buildings, a total of 218455 dwellings would be considered unworthy in all the overseas countries. The delegation to the overseas part of the National Assembly has taken up this subject: I am, with my colleagues Karine Lebon and Hubert Julien-Laferrière, co-rapporteur of a mission on this subject. The latter has been completed and we will present our report on Thursday, 3 February; In particular, it makes recommendations on mal-housing. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister Delegate, about the levers that the Government could use to overcome this scourge. What do you intend to do to strengthen overseas representation in relevant habitat authorities such as ANAH or ANRU? How can we complement the overseas housing legislation and deploy all its tools? I am thinking in particular of the application of the right to housing in Mayotte, the only ultramarine territory excluded from this scheme. How can housing policies be better adapted to ultramarine specificities? Finally, the subject is vast and the time given to me is unfortunately too short. I therefore strongly encourage you to read our report and hope that certain recommendations will be adopted and implemented.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u127	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u128	I will of course be aware of your report and its proposals with great interest. I have already had the opportunity to say that we are very committed to the development of affordable housing in the overseas regions. This requires taking into account their specificities. The answer probably lies in the quality and adaptation of public policies – and on this point we have already made a great deal of progress. Overseas housing policies benefit from a single budget line and are part of specific plans. The current Overseas Housing Plan, which covers the years 2019 to 2022, proposes several legislative and regulatory measures to adapt our tools to ultramarine specificities. The Finance Act for 2020 has created support for social accession and improvement of private housing specific to overseas countries and territories. The "climate and resilience" law extended the duration of intervention of the 50-step geometric agencies by ten years. In Mayotte and Guyana, a new category of social housing with very low rents was created on a tailor-made basis. As for the results, I mentioned a few figures earlier: social housing rehabilitations increased sharply to almost 7,000 housing units in 2021, compared to just 1687 in 2020. The needs in Mayotte are immense, of course, and the road ahead is still long; but we approved 571 homes in 2020, compared to 450 in 2019. In total, we financed the construction or rehabilitation of 11550 social housing units in 2021, compared to 8300 in 2020. So the effort is there. We will continue to work to adapt our policies, and to invent new ones, to answer the specific questions posed by the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u129	Mr Richard Lioger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u130	My question concerns the poor housing of students, who are, alas, increasingly confronted with precarious conditions. There is an increasing number of students: their number has increased ninefold since 1969. But they are also more likely to face difficulties in financing their studies or housing. Rent often accounts for nearly 60% of a student's monthly budget. While some find it difficult to feed themselves – almost 15,000 of them have had to be helped in recent years by solidarity grocery stores to benefit from food and basic necessities – the regional centres for academic and school works (CROUS) face a high demand for housing without having the capacity to house all applicants, and the demands for bail or guarantors from the owners are sometimes a brake on the most isolated students, the question of the precariousness of our youth appears to be an absolute emergency. This is all the more true as the health crisis has increased the inequalities and feelings of anxiety of many young people faced with housing problems. As we know, the Government attaches real importance to this issue; This can be seen in the extension of the winter truce or the construction of 250,000 new social housing units in 2021 and 2022. I am also thinking of the implementation of specific provisions for students in the context of the reform of the APLs in order to ensure that they maintain or increase the amount previously collected. National representation also voted during the quinquennium to strengthen sanctions for sleep merchants, within the framework of the ELAN law, of which I am proud to have been the rapporteur. Finally, as you know, on 15 December last year the report of the fact-finding mission I conducted with David Corceiro, entitled "The economic prospects of young French people: housing and precariousness". We recalled that housing is inextricably linked to the success of students and that the same applies to young workers: their work is less likely to be successful and to lead to sustainable access to employment if it is not backed by sustainable housing. My question, Madam Deputy Minister, is simple and very concrete: how does the Government intend to act to produce massively, and sustainably, housing for students and young workers?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u131	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u132	I agree with you on the need to respond more and more to the growing housing needs of students. This is a subject that you are well aware of, and I welcome the report you have submitted, on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, with your colleague David Corceiro. With regard to securing access to housing and maintaining it, I would like to begin by welcoming the success of the Visale guarantee, which is open unconditionally to children under 30 years of age.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u133	It was created in 2016!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u134	Students are the first beneficiaries – 123,000 contracts in 2021, or 53% of the total. Since 2016, because the Visale guarantee dates back to 2016, 338000 contracts have been signed: there has recently been a sharp acceleration. That's good news about a good measure. The conditions for access to the Visale guarantee were extended in 2021, and we can further improve this tool and make it better known. With regard to the new offer, which is obviously the heart of the question, we had set ourselves the goal of creating 60000 student housing units during the quinquennium: finally, according to our projections, we will reach 60000 housing units, but with only 60 % of social housing units within them. We must therefore continue to increase the share of affordable housing for students. From this point of view, the results in 2021 are satisfactory: 10,000 social housing units are funded for students and young people, an increase of 20% over 2020. Nevertheless, we must accelerate our efforts. Together with the Minister of Higher Education, Research and Innovation, Frédérique Vidal, we are also seeking to mobilise university land. Seventy sites have been identified for this purpose, on which 12,000 dwellings could quickly emerge from the land. You also mentioned – rightly – the role of communities. We are encouraging them to host social housing projects. The exemption from the property tax on buildings is now compensated, while we are currently signing the first contracts for the revival of housing in a tense area. I would add that Bill 3DS contains a provision that you have defended, which allows universities to create companies dedicated to valuing their heritage. This could result in the construction and management of student housing, in which CROUS and communities will also be able to participate. It is through all these measures that we will be able to increase the supply of student housing in the social park and increase access to the private park.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u135	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u136	There has been an increasing decline in housing among the population of Réunion. The Fondation Abbé-Pierre estimates that three out of ten Réunions are affected by unpaid rents or by undecent housing. I will therefore have two very specific questions. The first concerns the difference in treatment between Hexagon and overseas. Indeed, in the face of the time bomb of rental evictions, you have taken the decision to postpone the end of the winter truce to 31 May. But why does the overseas country not benefit from this measure? How do you justify this unequal treatment? Secondly, there are more than 35,000 vacant dwellings in the private park in Réunion, which are often awaiting renovation. Why does the Government not agree, as the various overseas ministers have promised, to create a full ANAH delegation at the local level, in order to support landlords in the renovation of their housing, even if it does not take measures to encourage the rental of these housing units with a capped rent in the social park? The aim would be to deploy the ANAH services as close as possible to the inhabitants, but also to extend its intervention to private donors. Overseas citizens must no longer be sidelined in the application of measures to combat homelessness. The ANAH is mainly involved in the MaPrimeRenov' system, but 90% of the files concern solar water heaters. These may be interesting, but they do not actually improve habitat. [[Mr. Jean-Hugues Ratenon applauds]] So my question, which I repeat, is simple: when will we have, on the other hand, a full ANAH delegation allowing the occupants and the donors to renovate the housing and access the funding that the agency proposes?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u137	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u138	You are right to ask me again about the specifics of housing overseas and in La Réunion in particular: this question indeed calls our full attention. I had the opportunity to visit La Réunion only a short time ago to meet with the relevant actors, to take stock of the Overseas Housing Plan, and to give even more impetus to action as adapted as possible to the territories. You are referring to the issue of the ANAH framework for action. We can continue to discuss this, but it turns out that the resources devoted to the renovation and improvement of housing through the single budget line (LBU) are often more important than what the ANAH would be able to provide. It is therefore necessary to identify the advantages and disadvantages of changing the dividing line between what is achieved through the LBU and what could be achieved by the ANAH, so that a change is well at the service of the reunited population. In any event, in principle, we will look at everything that can be done to ensure that the involvement of ANAH in the ultramarine territories is strong and that there is a good articulation between the various devices. It is obvious that the issue of heating does not arise in the same way in Réunion as in metropolitan France; No more than cooling, ventilation and hot water. All the possibilities to improve our intervention devices and the presence of our large operators are obviously to be explored. You have also already asked us about the possibility of extending the tax on vacant dwellings (TLV) to La Réunion. I can tell you that we are currently working on updating, on the basis of new data from INSEE, the decree on this tax and that this update will include the overseas countries and territories, which will therefore be part of the common law. In this respect, I would point out that the TLV applies only to urban units with more than 50,000 inhabitants: it is therefore to this rule of common law that overseas units will be integrated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u139	How about common law with ANAH?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u140	You see, therefore, that we are at your disposal to continue to territorialize our arrangements and to make all national measures available to the overseas countries and territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u141	Mrs Sylvie Bouchet Bellecourt has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u142	The difficulties associated with housing are long-standing in our country and the problem of mal-housing is growing considerably: I am confronted with it on a daily basis. This difficulty is observed in different forms. The deadlines for obtaining social housing are very long. There is a shortage of places due to insufficient supply, which results in exorbitant prices for both purchase and rental, which do not allow for proper accommodation. Homeowners are distraught because they cannot recover their illegally occupied housing. And sleep merchants rent unsanitary housing for people who can't stay otherwise. In this regard, I would like to refer to the rental permit, established by the law ALUR – Law on Access to Housing and Renovated Town Planning – of 2014. This tool is a good, very concrete measure, which aims to control the leasing of private real estate. In Nemours, for example, the system is in effect and is beginning to bear fruit against sleep merchants. Such a mechanism would also deserve to be used more and, why not, made mandatory. Another element is population density. Indeed, if we allow very strong pressure to be exerted in densely populated areas, we will not answer the question of inadequate housing. The generalization of telework is an opportunity to revitalize our rural areas because rent prices in some cities are beyond reasonableness. As such, I support Valérie Pécresse's idea of encouraging young people to buy housing in rural or medium-sized areas by providing them with zero-rate loans. Such a measure would certainly reduce the tension in the housing market and also have to accept everything and anything, for lack of better. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In any case, I thank you for organizing this necessary debate on the issue of mal-housing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u143	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u144	You first mentioned the lease permit, established by the ALUR law. I agree with you that this is a relevant tool for preventive and coercive action against unworthy housing. This allows municipalities and EPCIs – public institutions for intercommunal cooperation – to define geographical areas or even categories of housing for which donors must carry out an administrative procedure before they can rent. Housing is thus better controlled before it is rented. This mechanism is currently being deployed to the national territory. Approximately 150 deliberations have been taken so far to implement it, in eleven metropolitan areas and about 350 communes. About 50 of these deliberations were held in 2020 and 2021. The rise in power and the appropriation of the lease permit allowed the deconcentrated services of the State, in association with the communities, to impose sanctions against indelicate owners. These include the Prefecture of l'Essonne, which, in 2021, imposed €800,000 in administrative fines against a dozen donors who had failed to comply with the lease permit and who were actually sleep merchants in the Grigny 2 district. In the same way, again in 2021, the prefecture of Seine-Saint-Denis issued some 20 decrees, representing 108000 euros of sanctions. We will therefore continue to use this mechanism, which allows us to continue monitoring and to impose effective sanctions on sleep merchants. You have addressed many other issues during your speech, including the issue of squats. As you know, you and the honourable senators have changed the law in this area by introducing an administrative procedure to dislodge squatters in forty-eight hours. You also mentioned home ownership, which we support thanks to zero-rate loans, but also through Housing Action.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u145	Mrs Sophie Mette has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u146	It was important to put the wrong housing on the agenda of our assembly. It has been a long-standing evil in France, whose winter reminds us every year of brutality. The covid-19 pandemic did nothing about it, particularly in the twenty-sixth annual report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre. As is often the case, as an elected representative of rural areas, I would like to point out that the ills of cities are often found in the countryside, or even tend to be increased there. There are 35 per cent of those living in makeshift homes in rural areas. Close to my home, for example, in a municipality of less than 2500 inhabitants, Castres-Gironde, has been a shanty town-like camp for more than thirty years. Away from the villages, the "path of the Limits" brings together 90 people, including some 30 children, in more than unworthy conditions. It's kind of the quarter-world at our doorstep. What can you do to stop it? How can we help communities move forward on this issue? Despite the proactive work of the sub-prefect and mayors, nothing has changed for many years. More generally, thousands of homeless people are registered in rural communities and small towns. Isolation, a sadly known characteristic of some rural dwellings, has multiplied during confinements and has sometimes reinforced psychological problems already present. Finally, I will address an issue that you are well aware of, Madam Deputy Minister: the issue of energy vulnerability related to housing. This is much higher in our countryside than elsewhere, generating more heating and energy losses. During the pandemic, public policies were reactive to limit social breakdown. What do we know about their impact in rural areas? How can we do even better? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I also welcome the associative initiatives, which help the poor and the homeless: I am thinking of the Campus Vert association, which works to put in virtuous relationship farmers and citizens for a decent, accessible and close housing. How can this type of action be encouraged?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u147	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u148	I agree with your observation that, of course, poor housing affects all territories, including rural areas, and we must once again adapt our tools to be able to respond to them. You took the example of the shantytown of the Way of the Limits, in Castres-Gironde. It is occupied by Travellers, who actually live in very precarious conditions. In connection with the departmental council, but also with the social landlord Gironde Habitat, we have already relocated six of the twenty-five families currently present on the site. The aim is, in the long run, to rehouse them all. Beyond these emergency actions on this particular situation, we have mobilised €20 million from the recovery plan to renovate reception areas and improve the living conditions of travellers. Rural areas are of course affected by the phenomenon of homelessness and we have created many structures to better accommodate the homeless. The 200000 accommodation places are well distributed throughout the country. We have created mobile day-care facilities to reach homeless people in rural areas. I am thinking of the financing of a Red Cross truck in the department of Ain, or the Mobicaritas project of the Catholic Relief in La Réunion – a department that we have just mentioned. The programme A home is also deployed in rural areas, in Haute-Savoie, in the Var or in Côtes-d'Armor, for homeless people suffering from severe psychiatric disorders. We are also working to better address situations of mal-housing or indignity in rural areas. To this end, we are mobilizing the operations programmed with the ANAH for rural revitalization. HAAPs work well and are available to communities. As for energy renovation, I mentioned earlier MaPrimeRénov': 50% of the files filed in 2021 were in a rural area. This means that we have invested EUR 1 billion to help our fellow citizens in these territories isolate their housing or change their boiler. As you said, it is often in rural areas that energy insecurity is important.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u149	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u150	Madam Deputy Minister, as you know, housing is at the frontier of social and environmental issues. Today, 12 million people live in one of the 5 million thermal colanders in our country. Despite these challenges, the aid mechanisms are insufficient. At the pace of things, carbon neutrality cannot be achieved until at least 2050. This is why the Socialist and related group has proposed the introduction of a simple mechanism, the climate premium, which would allow the overall and efficient renovation of the housing, by removing the brakes linked to the rest of the charge, which is one of the main problems relating to your aids, including MaPrimeRenov'. Indeed, since an overall renovation requires on average about 38000 euros of work, we are far from the account. In view of the current inflation, starting with the price of energy and gas, which we often have the opportunity to talk about, and in a context of a decline in LPAs, French people living in these poorly isolated households have the choice of heating and eating. The amounts of your energy check and premium inflation are insufficient. Madam Minister Delegate, in the face of climate change and social emergency, when do you intend to help the French who cannot warm up, and to put in place a plan of magnitude to combat the thermal colanders in practice? Although proposals have been made, such as the energy check, they are not sufficient to respond to the magnitude of the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u151	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u152	We act both in response to the emergency and to accompany the French in renovation work. As far as the urgency is concerned, I do not share your assessment of the energy check and the inflation premium. The energy check is six million precarious households which on average receive 150 euros to which we have added 100 euros, as well as an inflation allowance of 100 euros for 38 million French. Above all, we must take into account the shield on gas and electricity prices, which protects households from an increase in the price of heating which would otherwise be very important. The most important, however, is to allow the start of ambitious renovations. In 2020, we created a mechanism that works well, since it will soon have seduced a million French: we are not far from the millionth MaPrimeRenov' file. The device makes it possible to do work, either by gestures or in bouquet. We have also maintained the most ambitious aids of the ANAH, formerly called Habiter plus serenity, grouped, since 1 January 2022, under the brand MaPrimeRénov' serenity. We continue to finance this growing scheme, which has allowed several tens of thousands of global renovations for the most modest households. I am proud to say that MaPrimeRénov' has refocused credits that previously went to 50% of the richest 20% of households in France to modest and very modest households. For the financing of the remainder, we work with the banks; they will be able to distribute a new loan, the loan advance renovation, which will allow the repayment to be deferred until the transfer of the property or, unfortunately, when the situation arises, until the estate. The climate premium you are proposing, we have actually already put it in place, certainly in pieces – MaPrimeRenov' and the loan is advancing renovation. These tools are popular with the French and I believe they will find their audience.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u153	Mrs Sophie Métadier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u154	On the ground, in the city or in the countryside, the question of unhealthy housing is well known. After twenty years of experience, I see the sensitivity of the subject. I am thinking of the sensitivity of the inhabitants, first of all, with two broad categories: those who have always lived in conditions that I would call indignant and who often do not understand our willingness to help them because, whether they are tenants or owners, touching their housing is a major psychological obstacle, and those who suffer a situation from which they would like to leave. There is also the sensitivity of the financing: for example, it is difficult for private owners to understand that the reduction in their heating bill will offset the cost of the work, when they do not have a heating bill because they cannot access the luxury of heating. I regularly work with ANAH on the subject of mal-housing. Financial resources exist and technical and legal skills are present, even if they remain insufficient; However, we cannot lift the brakes we have just mentioned. The fight against sleep merchants has limited effects and often remains ineffective, the phenomenon being amplified in condominiums in difficulty. How can these people who are attached to their homes or who are dependent on harmful individuals be affected? How can we make them aware of their situation and let them know that solutions exist and that they can be helped? The 2025 deadline is fast approaching. What communication do you plan to put in place to inform the owners and tenants of the end of the rental thermal colanders?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u155	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u156	You discuss two equally important topics: the fight against unworthy habitat in general and the support of landlords in the improvement of the habitat, at the service of tenants. The departmental centres for combating unworthy housing are one of the pillars of our policy. They act as closely as possible to the ground, as concretely as possible, by identifying vulnerable households; There are also partnerships between the state and communities within the framework of the OHAs. I believe that it is through this very close approach that we will be able to combat the unworthy habitat. It is in addition to the strengthening of sanctions, the fight against sleep merchants, the ability to confiscate property and the possibility of imposing stronger fines. One of the great achievements of this legislature is to have taken a much greater interest in condominiums in great difficulty. With the Condominium Initiative plan, we can now fund 100% of emergency duty-free work. This is a real change that can trigger work in condominiums and then convince co-owners to go beyond emergency work. It remains to convince landlords to carry out the energy renovation of housing. First of all, the "climate and resilience" law imposed obligations, which were discussed at length in this assembly and on which opinions were divided. These obligations are essential because the owners do not spontaneously have the motivation to carry out this work. They still need to be made aware of both their obligations and the possible aids, since MaPrimeRénov'is open to landlords and condominiums and there are other ANAH aids for habitat improvement. We are currently working with real estate agencies and representatives of real estate owners to develop a guide for landlords. You also have to go through relays: I am thinking of trustees, property administrators or associations of owners. It is this word that must be given in order for the work to take place and for the tenants to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u157	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u158	A number of territories, and Corsica in particular, face serious problems of access to housing. Since the common law tools are not sufficient, different mechanisms should be mobilised to answer this question. Social donors must be able to free up funding to build and renovate the existing park. All territories should be able to benefit from the real solidarity lease, especially in areas where land is out of price, as in Corsica, which is unfortunately not the case. The Corsican Land Office or the FTEs – public land institutions – should be provided with resources for the acquisition of land. In particular, are you ready to study a new calculation basis to feed the Corsican land office, whose means are not up to the needs to launch affordable housing operations? The mapping of tense areas should be reviewed so that some municipalities can benefit from the tax on vacant dwellings. Are you ready to review the decree, in particular with a view to enabling the municipalities of Barbaggio and Patrimonio, which are experiencing major problems, to have an additional lever of action in favour of housing? More specifically, the urban area of Bastia should be included in the zoning for the increase of the cadastral rental tax on building land for the calculation of the property tax on unbuilt properties. In addition, will you step up your control over the use of the Pinel system so that it is exclusively mobilised for access to housing for the middle classes, i.e. for a permanent allowance, which is its primary purpose? In Corsica, all these provisions would be complementary to the measures adopted by the Corsican community, which would make them all the more useful. The goal, you will understand, is to lower the price of land to make the cost of construction more affordable and promote access to housing. Madam Deputy Minister, are you ready to embark on these developments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u159	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u160	The situation in Corsica, as in other national territories, is indeed tense on the question of housing. In some cases you have referred to, there is competition between secondary residences and principal residences. It is necessary to find tools to accommodate people who live and work in Corsica. This is a subject on which we are obviously ready to work. You have cited the strengthening of the resources of solidarity land organizations and the development of real solidarity leases. This is a subject that we can very much study in order to determine how to support the dismemberment of property which, I think, is a good response to the accession to the property of the middle classes, in particular to the first accession to the property. You also mentioned the tax on vacant housing. As I explained in my previous reply, we are in the process of updating the INSEE bases on the territories eligible for the tax on vacant housing and the increased housing tax on secondary residences. It is also a subject on which we can work together. More generally, we are in the process of mandateing a mission of the CGEDD – General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development – the General Inspectorate of Finance and the General Inspectorate of Administration to determine how to maintain a significant supply in areas that are also subject to significant tourist and seasonal pressure – Corsica, first of all, but other national territories are also concerned. The bottom of my answer is that we must continue to build, since it is by increasing the supply that we will manage to loosen the mast a little. I am not aware of any particular difficulty in applying the Pinel device in Corsica, but it is a subject that we can explore – with you. What is certain is that the aid must be really targeted at the public for which it is intended. This is true of support for private rental investment and of all aid under conditions and resources ceiling of tenants. I am ready to work on the control arrangements.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u161	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-31-O1139.u162	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Debate on the theme: "Evaluation of the government plan The stronger state in Seine-Saint-Denis". I would remind you that this debate will be held in the Lamartine Chamber. The meeting is adjourned.
