ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European Union's strategy for electricity decarbonisation and energy efficiency by 2050. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u2	This debate on the European Union's strategy for electricity decarbonisation and energy efficiency is taking place in the context of a historic rise in gas and electricity prices. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] For the latter, the increase is mainly caused by one of the principles of the European electricity market, which wants its price on the wholesale market to be indexed to the price of gas, with gas-fired power plants providing an average of 20% of total European electricity production. While the generation of electricity in France comes from three quarters of its nuclear power plants, we thus suffer, in a completely absurd way, the consequences of the volatility of gas prices on the European electricity market. In order to avoid an explosion of the French electricity bill in the midst of the presidential campaign, the Government has decided, in a hurry, to put in place accompanying measures: extension of the energy cheque, anti-inflation shield, capping of the increase in electricity to 4% at the expense of EDF, which must give to its competitors, such as Engie or Total, an increasing share of its production at prices five times lower than the market. The executive also promised to set up a European arm to change the energy price mechanism, an initiative which, however, does not meet with a favourable response from most of our neighbours, and the recent expression of our disagreements speaks volumes about the prospects for the implementation of a common strategy for the decarbonisation of electricity at European level. While the European Union has planned to reduce its fossil gas consumption by 2030, countries such as Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Italy rely heavily on gas – far too much, from my point of view – either to decarbonize their coal-fired power plants a little bit or to try to balance their production when the capacity of non-pilotable renewables is at a standstill. Will they play the game? I have a hard time believing that investors in gas power plants have planned to shut them down in eight years! But the question also arises for France. Should we turn our backs on our decarbonized electric mix to defend the increased use of gas in order to compensate – I say compensate well – for the intermittent nature of non-pilotable renewables, to the sole benefit of oil and gas giants? Should we continue on the ruinous path of liberalisation, which we continue to praise, thirty years after Maastricht, despite the evidence of the fiasco? We say it forcefully, we do not accept that EDF, the flagship of our industry, is the hostage of financial markets and the adjustment variable of a competitive system that works on the head!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u3	Absolutely, it's an aberration!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u4	This company must become once again the integrated public service that it should never have ceased to be. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mrs Stephanie Kerbarh also applauds]] We must therefore put an end to the stacking up of the mechanisms imposed by the European Commission in the name of competition. I think, first of all, of the massive public subsidies allocated to private renewable energy companies, which have not saved the least tonne of CO, whereas this money could have been used, with great efficiency for the climate, for the thermal renovation of the housing or for the development of our public transport. I am thinking of the scandal of the regulated access to EDF's historic nuclear energy, the ARENH, some of which, today, are showing signs of perversity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u5	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u6	[[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] I am thinking of the dynamic pricing system that, imposed by a 2019 directive, wants consumers' bills to be indexed in real time on the stock exchange, thanks to Linky-type meters. More and more voices are calling in our country for the energy sector to be removed from competition and markets to return, throughout Europe, to public systems, which guarantee energy accessible to all. Energy and climate are things that are too important to be left longer to the trade-offs and contradictions of financial capitalism. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – Mrs Stephanie Kerbarh also applauds]] It is by regaining his inspiration after the Second World War, Marcel Paul's, that France can propel a great European energy ambition. The Communists are convinced that only public control, with a social vocation, of energy will enable us not only to meet the enormous energy and climate challenge ahead, but also to loosen the stranglehold of the energy and geostrategic dependencies in which we have our big neighbours exporting fossil energy, like Russia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u7	Nice demonstration!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u8	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u9	Modernism is nationalization! Audacity, Madam Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u10	Thank you for inviting us to reflect on the energy policy, which has always been at the heart of European integration, from the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community, the ECSC, in 1951, to the Green Pact for Europe, which today is laying the groundwork for a thorough review of our energy mix and a gradual cessation of the use of fossil fuels. In short, while energy has remained, for the most part, a competence in the hands of the Member States, it has a long-standing role as an accelerator of the European project. This is again the case today: with its renewed climate ambition, Europe has the opportunity to reinvent itself by becoming the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050 and by ensuring its energy sovereignty, whose recent news shows us all the importance, a fortiori at a time when the energy price crisis, and in particular gas, poses serious questions, both as regards citizens, businesses and public actors on a daily basis, and as regards our autonomy in terms of supply. To reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030, we need to change our energy sector. The figures speak for themselves: today, energy production and consumption account for 75% of European greenhouse gas emissions. If, therefore, we want to make this ambitious energy transition, we must start by decarbonizing our entire economy. Faced with this challenge, Europe has a strategy based on two slogans. The first is ambition, because in order to achieve our climate targets, which have been revised upwards, we must redouble our efforts and make a systemic transformation of our energy policy. The second is coherence: indeed, in the overall strategy we want to put in place, we must act on all the levers and ensure that all of our European policies are in line with our energy objectives. This balance, we seek at every moment, and the Secretary of State for Biodiversity is fully aware of this, because the development of the different types of energy must always take account of the environmental consequences. This is the very purpose of the Fit for 55 legislative package – an adjustment to Objective 55 – proposed by the European Commission last July: it concerns all sectors producing and consuming energy, the idea being that, since there is no single solution, all levers must be used, from regulation to taxation, to quota trading systems and incentive schemes. It also covers all greenhouse gases, such as methane or nitrous oxides emitted by agriculture, and deals with carbon sinks. Finally, it includes strong proposals in terms of funding. As we can see, the approach is in the interests of coherence, which must drive our energy policy through the various sectors and sectors. From its perspective, the European Union has made energy efficiency the first of its policies in order to reduce its emissions and ultimately achieve carbon neutrality in 2050. Indeed, the least polluting energy remains the energy that is not consumed. Energy efficiency is also a key lever for reducing the energy bills of our citizens and limiting our dependence on international energy markets. In order to support this strong action, a proposal for the revision of the Energy Efficiency Directive was published by the Commission on 14 July and is currently being negotiated within the Council of the European Union. This project is complemented, among other things, by a draft directive on the energy performance of buildings, which was published last December and which we are starting to examine. The text has already been the subject of informal exchanges between the European energy ministers, meeting some ten days ago in Amiens, and our ambition under the French Presidency of the European Union (EUFP) is to reach an agreement by June. Other key levers include the codification of the principle of the primacy of energy efficiency, so that energy efficiency can be mainstreamed into all our public, national and European policies; an increase in the 2030 energy efficiency target set in the Directive; the establishment of annual energy saving obligations for each Member State; or the reduction of energy expenditure in buildings, whose consumption accounts for 40% of the energy we use in Europe, i.e. one third of our greenhouse gas emissions. With this in mind, it is essential to speed up the pace of their renovation and to strengthen our energy performance requirements, as proposed by the Commission in December. In addition to reducing our energy consumption, the decarbonisation of our energy mix is the second pillar of the European energy strategy. This means, above all, an ambitious development of our renewable energies, so that they gradually replace fossil fuels. We also defend the possibility for those countries that wish to do so to be able to continue to use nuclear energy, which will remain an important element for France in the coming decades. Balancing sobriety, energy efficiency, the development of renewable energy and the use of nuclear energy is all the more essential as the current energy price crisis reminds us of the fragility of Europe, which is dependent on imported fossil fuels. In the long term, structuring European sectors, both guaranteeing greater energy independence and creating jobs, will therefore be crucial and all the more opportune as the cost of renewable energy continues to fall. In this context, the European Union is currently working to enhance its ambition to deploy renewable energies. The current goal, you know, is to reach 32% of our final renewable energy consumption by 2030. However, in order for us to have every chance of succeeding in reducing our emissions by 55% by 2030, the European Commission proposes to raise this target to 40%. The Government supports this strengthened ambition, which is essential to move faster towards decarbonization. We will therefore be committed to advancing the discussions on the deployment of renewable and decarbonised energy during our Presidency of the Council of the European Union, through texts such as the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive, or the draft regulations on aviation or maritime fuels. Finally, without being able to discuss everything, I would like to say a few words about another aspect of the European Union's decarbonisation strategy, which will be based on a technology of the future: renewable and low-carbon hydrogen. In support of renewable energies, the use of hydrogen will indeed be a major asset for the sectors most difficult to decarbonize, such as industry or heavy mobility. In this regard, our country, with its strategy for the development of decarbonised hydrogen launched in 2020, and on the other hand, the France 2030 investment plan, is already in the forefront. However, the development of the hydrogen chain must also and above all take place on a European scale, to ensure that we have a complete and sovereign hydrogen value chain. To this end, legislation is being prepared to encourage the development of hydrogen. The European Commission has published its own strategy in 2020, where it expects the share of hydrogen in European energy consumption to rise to 14% by 2050, compared to a small share today. Similarly, the current revision of the Renewable Energy Directive, which I mentioned earlier, sets out objectives for the development of renewable hydrogen in industry and transport. On 15 December, the European Commission also proposed a legislative package aimed at establishing, from 2030 onwards, a comprehensive framework for the regulation of the European hydrogen, renewable and low-carbon market, with the aim of developing a flexible and adaptable framework for future developments in the hydrogen market, which is still under development, while ensuring consumer protection and the attractiveness of the sector for investors. We therefore have a heavy responsibility, under our Presidency of the Council, to start discussions on this subject. In parallel with the construction of this European legislative framework, the European Union is investing heavily in the development of the European hydrogen sector. For example, €800 million of European funds are spent annually on hydrogen projects; In order to go further, an important project of common European interest (PIIEC) has been set up. Acted by the Council last December, this PIIEC will have to make it possible to build electrolysis plants while financing the decarbonization of certain industries. This will be an immense asset for the development of a sovereign hydrogen pipeline. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I could of course mention many other issues and levers of the Fit for 55 legislative package: vehicle emissions, changes in the quota trading system, the fight against carbon leakage and social justice, which are essential in the energy transition and, more generally, environmental. The European Union is fully mobilized, as you can see, to complete this transition. We must become the first carbon-neutral continent by 2050, thanks to an overall course and vision, energy savings, renewable energy and new technologies. The Government is fully mobilized, including within the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, to move this ambition forward rapidly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u11	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that both the duration and the duration of the replies are limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u12	Germany is in the process of shutting down its last nuclear power plants and has scheduled the shutdown of its coal and lignite power plants by 2038, with the possibility of speeding up these closures. To compensate for these stops and to meet the growing demand for electricity, it continues to develop renewable energies with wind energy, which is, as we know, intermittent; methanisation, which is increasingly competing with agricultural food production; natural gas power plants, which are certainly more efficient than coal-fired power plants, but which still emit CO and increase Europe's energy dependence on Russia. Given the importance of Germany in the European Union's energy mix, both in production and consumption, can you tell us what impact this will have on France's energy transition? What does France expect in terms of nuclear power generation, particularly in terms of its production stability, to compensate for the intermittent nature of certain renewable energies? Who will be able to count on France to supply it with electricity when its nuclear power plants are under maintenance? What is the European Union's strategy for the interconnection of distribution networks, which must increasingly be able to transport electricity across Europe? Finally, Minister Barbara Pompili announced a few months ago the arrival of a new nuclear technology based on small generators of 1 to 20 megawatts. Can you tell us more about the future of this technology? What part could it play in our production mix, and by what date?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u13	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u14	You have asked many questions, which I will try to answer in the time allotted to me. Firstly, with regard to the complementarity of European electricity mixes, we must be coordinated and synchronized. As you know, with our nuclear fleet, we are mainly exporters; But we will not have the capacity to replace plants that will close abroad, especially in the winter, when we are instead importing electricity, a priori coming from Germany. The aim must be, first and foremost in the short term, to regain the availability of our nuclear fleet, to have margins of security of supply and to increase our production and flexibility capacities. The nuclear stock and other means of production with high availability – wind at sea in particular – will be necessary for the entire electrical system. In order to be less dependent on imports in the event of consumption peaks, we will also have to save energy, reduce consumption and develop flexibilities, such as storage and erasure of peak consumption. This is what we find in the new projections of the "Future Energy 2050" study by TEN – the electricity transmission network – which proposes to develop flexible production capacities, such as the hydrogen power plants I have just mentioned. For its part, Germany plans to release coal by 2030, subject to security of supply, with a nuclear exit target at the end of 2022, which is therefore not called into question. This exit is made possible by the massive development of renewable energies, which are expected to account for 80% of the electricity mix by 2030. The German Government is announcing the development of new gas power plants as a transitional measure, which explains all the debates we have on this taxonomy. You are also asking me about small nuclear reactors. This programme was indeed mentioned by the President of the Republic and Minister Pompili. I will come back to that in one of the questions to follow.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u15	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u16	I have five very specific questions; If you want to answer me only with numbers, it will be fine. The first question concerns the tariff: the Government has asked EDF to continue to sell electricity at a braided rate; It would cost EDF 8 billion euros. How much will the participation and interest of EDF agents be reduced? Second question: have private investors, who own 16% of EDF's capital, threatened to attack the state for having dropped the result by at least 8 billion this year? Third question: how much does ARENH cost per year on average? Are we talking about two or three billion a year? Can you give us, for example, the figure for the year 2021 – or 2020, as you wish? The fourth question is that the price of electricity is indexed to that of gas, which is still an aberration. On this point, can you give us some elements of what France is going to negotiate at European level, so that the price of electricity is no longer indexed to that of gas? Fifth question: in the finance bill (PLF) for 2022 appropriations were voted for 5,154 billion, so that renewable energy would be purchased at a price corresponding to its cost of production. If these energies are to be purchased at 70 euros per megawatt hour, as their value is now up to 300 or 400 euros, the envelope of 5,154 billion will not be used. So, can you tell us if it would be possible for you to move it, and if so, to commit yourself to doing so, to households, which are experiencing very high increases in energy bills? At this point, I repeat, it will not be used.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u17	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u18	These are very technical questions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u19	That's normal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u20	...and your checklist calls encrypted answers to the raised foot. I would obviously not be able to answer it as precisely as if I had been able to prepare them. The price of the ARENH is 42 euros per megawatt hour, and the maximum overall volume allocated to the device is 100 terawatt hours per year. Energy market proposals must return to balance. This measure, if it was able to destabilise EDF, which thought it could reap some benefits from energy price increases, helps to cushion, as the state does, the cost of energy and the current increases for our citizens. We cannot imagine that EDF is far from this debate and its effects on the price of energy for households, even though we are in a particular crisis situation. You're right, it re-examines the whole economic model linked to our energy mix. It is also a reflection that will lead Parliament next year, since it will be part of the new French energy strategy, which will also include reflections on the state's expenditure for these economic shocks to the household budget. For all purposes, I tell you again that the special inflation premium...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u21	That wasn't the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u22	No doubt, but it's news.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u23	You're not able to answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u24	You would be angry if I could have a full answer to a debate on the economic balance of the French energy mix, even though this debate must take place at parliamentary level.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u25	It's not the debate, Mrs. Rabault.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u26	In that case, the debates are useless!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u27	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u28	This debate questions us about France's role in supporting the European strategy for electricity decarbonisation and energy efficiency by 2050. I would like to remind everyone that Europe is not only continental; the outermost regions (RUPs) and the overseas countries and territories (OCTs) can and must also be part of the European strategy. These territories have strong natural resources in solar, wind, but also, among other things, geothermal. My question is rather simple with regard to this potential in its own energies, these intrinsic assets, but also their geographical position. Isolation situations mean that the increases in oil prices that we are experiencing in Europe can be multiplied in the overseas territories. Transport costs are becoming a matter of particular concern for these territories, and not just for hydrocarbons. In view of these local situations and the international context, how does France fully integrate its overseas territories into the European decarbonisation strategy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u29	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u30	The question of the overseas countries and territories requires the necessary multiannual programming of energy adapted to the needs, but also to the resources and what these territories can mobilise according to their specificities. Planning is absolutely necessary; work is carried out between the State, region or single community, depending on the territory in question. The development of the first multiannual energy programming (EPP) dates back to 2017 and 2018. They are now being revised. We have a new look at what we could consider in order to decarbonize the mix of electricity production in these territories, of course by developing renewable energies and also by relying on own resources. As you said, this raises many difficulties; We have to imagine what technologies can be mobilised to convert current power plants to oil or coal, with questions about the sustainability of biomass and bioliquids that we want to use: all of these subjects that need to be really studied on a case-by-case basis, depending on the territory. The State financially supports the development of renewable energy, with €670 million in 2022 for non-interconnected areas, and an emphasis since 2019 on controlling electricity demand. It is a powerful lever for decarbonisation, to which we dedicate 530 million over five years as part of the support to the non-interconnected areas (ZNI), thus affecting a third of precarious customers. Mechanisms are fully deployed for decarbonisation of road transport in particular, to improve and green such consumption in each territory. The competence of Polynesia and New Caledonia in the field of environment and energy rests with the local government, but intensive and highly technical exchanges and collaborations are being established with the State's public services and institutions, in particular the Environmental Transition Agency (ADEME). These collaborations allow us to draw the energy future, especially in Polynesia, where the President of the Republic announced in July the creation of a fund to support the development of renewable energies, which will be endowed with 60 million over four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u31	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u32	According to the estimates described in the TEN 2022 report, the outlook for the development of electricity consumption has been revised upwards throughout the world, particularly in Europe, with the effect of more ambitious climate targets, which provide for the replacement of fossil energy use with renewable energy. Precisely, electricity consumption in France will increase by 35% by 2050 and the analyses foresee a future equivalent for the other European countries. One of the characteristics of the European electricity market is its dense interconnection. If this is useful in normal time, it also makes European electrical systems very dependent on each other. One of the strengths of French nuclear power is that it offers its European partners electricity production that is not as fluctuating as renewable energy. However, the increase in the share of renewable energy in the French energy mix by 2030 will increase the fluctuation in the electricity stock, which requires strengthening French energy storage capacities. This increase is problematic because energy storage in dams is the only known storage technology that does not require rare metals, such as lithium or cobalt. While the share of renewable energy in the energy mix is beneficial, this effort should not be undermined by the polluting nature of intermittent electricity storage technologies, which extract and transport lithium and cobalt in a highly polluting manner. All in all, if manufacturing and storage are integrated, carbon intensity in electricity generation is likely to increase and undermine European climate goals. Thus, how can Europe meet its climate commitments in view of its future energy needs by 2050, while the storage and production of electricity from renewable energies leads to an increase in carbon intensity per kilowatt hour?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u33	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u34	You rightly point out that we are talking a lot today about this energy sovereignty, which is largely based on storage, which must lead us to reflect on the carbon balance and efficiency, thus on the solutions for storing electricity and on our dependence on certain products needed to implement them. This issue is all the more important as our electrical systems will increasingly need this storage, so we need to increase power and predict this trajectory. There are various storage technologies, some of which are now tested, such as pumping energy transfer stations, STEPs, or batteries, whose performance is progressing very quickly, while others, such as flywheels, are being developed and are only approaching the industrialization phase. Storage choices will have to take into account the constraints specific to each technology, beyond their intrinsic performance. One cannot, for example, do STEPs everywhere, even if there is significant potential, and large battery-based storage requires space. These are all considerations that require us to find the most appropriate solution to the needs and context. Efficiency in terms of cost in relation to storage capacity will be a criterion of choice. The carbon balance will also have to be an important criterion, since for several years we have been integrating such criteria into calls for tenders for NRAs, renewable energies. The energy and climate law of 2019 now makes it mandatory to do so, and this will also be the case for the development of storage capacities, for which I remind you that the climate and resilience law of 2021 introduced the principle of tendering. We are indeed in the context of this projection and we are devoting resources to it. However, it remains difficult to compare the intrinsic performance of different technologies in terms of carbon balance, given the rapid technological progress and the many factors involved, such as carbon content. We must support, at European level, a strengthening of the requirement for the carbon content of batteries.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u35	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u36	While we can only praise the European Union's ambitious targets for the decarbonisation of electricity, we must note that the efforts made by the Member States are disparate. In November 2020, the think tank Amber reported that seven of the twenty-seven countries in the European Union relied heavily on coal and natural gas, making it impossible to meet the European Commission's targets for reducing carbon emissions. These seven countries will concentrate nearly 80% of electricity-related emissions in 2030. These include Germany, which, by abandoning nuclear energy to the benefit of fossil fuels, contributes to the overall increase in the Union's carbon balance. France, for its part, produces low-polluting electricity, thanks in particular to its nuclear power plants, and to investments in renewable energies. Far from rewarding us for our efforts, the European energy market forces EDF to sell this electricity below cost to its competitors. In short, some countries are paying dearly for their efforts in favour of the environment, while others are not investing and, worse still, are aggravating the EU's carbon balance. Bruno Le Maire described the current system as aberrant and obsolete. I'll have three questions. Firstly, will you take advantage of the French presidency of the European Union to correct the dysfunctions of the European electricity market? Secondly, is the creation of an automatic stabilizing mechanism for the price of electricity, allowing for the transfer of the gains that a producer can make in the event of high market prices to the supplier, which then passes them on to the consumer? Thirdly, we are still waiting for progress in the litigation against the European Commission on opening up hydroelectric concessions to competition. You were counting, for a while, on the Hercules project to settle this conflict. Having been fortunately removed, what are the tracks now explored to ensure that the maintenance of our hydroelectric dams is preserved in the giron of the historical operators? Finally, let me say to you, in all friendship, that I was struck earlier when you implied that EDF could eventually take advantage of this price increase.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u37	You mustn't hit Mrs. Kerbarh like that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u38	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u39	We all found that EDF had been somewhat disturbed by these ads. This fragility can be explained by the fact that the model had to be reconsidered, even though this option concerning ARENH was on the table and had been the subject of reflection for some time, it seems to me. We must, on a European scale, find these balances, and these complementarities are, as you know, already at work. In fact, France sometimes uses German energy at times of peaks, especially winter. We must solve these situations and models which, historically, were not based on the same mix in the different countries of Europe, must now all converge towards a form of sovereignty, therefore security of supply, and, beyond the exit of fossil fuels, towards a global greening of this mix. We are therefore facing this common challenge and, far from the cartoons, all European countries are working on it. The debates are sometimes lively, as they can be at national level when we enter into such reflections and we need to build this common path and these balances, but everyone is committed to it, with the same objective. We already have a common framework that sets us the goal of decarbonisation that we need to meet. There is a challenge and all countries are making efforts, each in its own way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u40	Especially France, which has decided to close its thermal power plants!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u41	We must therefore guard against all lessons and caricatures. The idea of regulating the market remains on the table. We must also preserve our French industrial tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u42	You'd know that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u43	This is also what has changed our national thinking on the share of nuclear energy, which, although it remains 50% by 2030, must nevertheless allow for a change in our industrial tool. We are in a long time and must take on choices that concern the coming decades.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u44	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u45	France is the only country that does not meet its renewable energy development objectives. In 2020, these represent only 19.1% of gross final energy consumption, with a target of 23%. However, we should set ourselves today a target of 100% renewable energy, coupled with a reduction in overall consumption, and plan for the release of nuclear energy, which includes many risks, contributes to France's dependence on uranium and remains unsolved for nuclear waste, as my colleague, Mathilde Panot, explained earlier. In particular with regard to photovoltaics, in order to increase production capacity without clearing or concreteing agricultural land or destroying carbon sinks, as is the case, for example, in my department of Gironde, of the Horizeo project, which plans to raze 2000 hectares of forests, there is an urgent need to rethink the grid of the country's electricity infrastructure. Ground photovoltaic projects, which change land use, should be limited to small units. It is therefore necessary to give priority to deployment on already artificialized surfaces and, for this, we need a fine mesh across the territory, which requires an evolution of the current structure of the network. This obviously requires substantial investments that your market or all-powerful competition will not provide. I'll just remind you that the competition you're firing at us didn't produce a single electron or unroll a single metre of cable. Only the public authorities can think of and finance this need in terms of infrastructure. My questions will therefore be very simple and very clear. What investments are you planning to adapt the network to these new sources of electricity generation that need to be developed? Are you considering re-establishing Enedis and TEN as an integrated company, a prerequisite for the development of this strategic network? Finally, when are you going to abolish the CRE, the Energy Regulatory Commission, or, at least, give it back a mission, one of its objectives being, under its strategic plan, "to contribute to the construction of the European internal electricity market". Today, however, we see the collapse of this market logic, where competition is fake.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u46	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u47	These are, again, many questions for an answer in two minutes! However, I fully agree with you on the need to adapt our network, in particular to adapt to an evolution of the electrical system that is already strong and will be even more so in the future. The stakes are multiple: connecting the NRAs, from large parks to smaller ones, and developing interconnections, as you said, by integrating more storage into the network – which, in fact, may avoid additional lines. We also need to adapt to the development of charging stations for high-power electric vehicles on large motorway sections or in car parks. The dimensioning must therefore be specific to the needs and the urban fabric. It is also necessary to manage different means of flexibility, perhaps by increasing power, for electric vehicles, by means of injection into the network during peak periods. These are technologies under development, for which we need to evolve and find the right model. We also have advantages: two large network operators, TEN and Enedis, as well as local distribution companies and an investment budget of more than EUR 5 billion per year. Many research and development programmes are currently under way to ensure the necessary adaptation of the network, which is another aspect in relation to the rise in power of the electric mix. To answer your question, TEN and Enedis cannot be integrated, because directives prevent us from imagining these broader developments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u48	Fortunately, we will disobey from next April!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u49	Mr Hubert Wulfranc has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u50	As my colleagues Duvergé and Kerbarh have suggested, discussing the strategy for the decarbonisation of electricity in Europe is about the role of one of the pillars of the European Union, not least Germany. However, the German super-minister of the economy and the ecological transition – excuse for the little – confirmed the goal of an energy mix increased to 80% of renewable energy by 2030, i.e. tomorrow. At the same time, the intermittance involving wind and solar power, already very developed in Germany, leads this country to massive use of gas and lignite power plants, which now accounts for 25% of its electricity production. For example, Germany has become the largest CO blower on the European continent. One example: on 25 January, the non-governmental organization (NGO) Electricity Map noted an hourly discharge of 418 grams in Germany, compared with 104 grams in France, and this movement will increase with the closure of the last nuclear reactors in Germany and the increased predominance of lignite, this highly polluting primary coal. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] If the direction of the German government, which goes from the right-wing liberals to the liberal Greens, obviously falls within the sovereign choice of the voters of this country, is there not a fraud – or, in more chosen terms, a major contradiction – that will seriously compromise European commitments and, in a way, will cut into pieces our electrical system and its tool, EDF, at the national level? In saying this, I am also asking you, of course, about the mastery of our national independence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u51	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u52	Greenhouse gas emissions per capita are certainly higher in Germany than in France, with in 2019 10.1 tonnes of CO per capita in Germany, compared with 6.8 in France, which is explained, on the one hand, by a larger industrial sector overseas and, on the other hand, by the fact that the French energy mix is 90% decarbonised, while Germany still relies heavily on gas and coal for its electricity production.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u53	And it's going to last!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u54	However, Germany has made commitments. Emissions from the German electricity sector have fallen significantly in recent decades. The carbon intensity of the electric mix was thus divided by more than two between 1991 and 2020 – this is significant enough to be reported. At the beginning of 2022, the new German government unveiled a particularly ambitious climate programme, with its goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 65% by 2030 compared to 1990 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2045. To do this, it will rely on a deep transformation of its electrical system with the announcement, in particular, of an output of coal from 2030, subject to...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u55	"Substantial": that's bullshit!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u56	... yes, security of supply is guaranteed. We can raise this reservation, but I think you would have the same requirement on the part of the French government. We must guarantee, in the event of a peak, this autonomy and security of supply. Nor does the German Government question the objective of leaving nuclear power at the end of 2022. So we still have this balance to build, but the terms are respected. It will be made possible mainly by a massive development of renewable energies, which are expected to account for 80% of the electricity mix by 2030. Very concrete measures have been announced to strengthen the development of NRAs, such as an increase in the volume of tenders, a law on terrestrial wind, a solar package. Of course, the German Government has also announced the development of new gas-fired power stations as a transitional measure, but we must have confidence in its ability to achieve the balance I mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u57	Mrs Huguette Tiegna has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u58	Since 2019, the European Union has been pursuing an ambitious climate neutrality strategy. The Green Pact for Europe commits Member States to reducing net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. In the face of a climate emergency specifically addressed in the first part of the sixth report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), it is essential to reduce emissions in order to make Europe the first continent to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. To this end, the European Commission has adopted legislative instruments to adapt EU policies on energy, land use, water, forests, transport and taxation. This policy involves major changes in the field of energy production, processing and consumption, particularly with regard to the substitution of hydrocarbons by sources of decarbonised energy. The European energy transition is still facing many political difficulties, in particular the divergence of objectives and priorities between Member States. For example, the allocation of European funds, and in particular the targeting of investment in member countries, can be questioned. Indeed, there is a high degree of heterogeneity in the origin of CO emissions within the European Union, and the share of CO emissions associated with electricity generation varies greatly depending on the energy mix of each Member State. That is why I am asking you about the introduction of a protective carbon value in the European Union: it would make it possible to give monetary value to emission reductions and to better influence investment. Is this solution being considered? If not, is another solution being studied?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u59	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u60	You ask us the important question of the tutelary value of carbon, which should not be confused with an amount of carbon tax. This tutelary value, which guides public action, is a valuable tool in questioning the profitability of certain investments in climate-friendly actions for communities, such as the purchase of electric vehicles or the energy renovation of buildings, in view of the expected benefits of CO emissions. It does not correspond directly to carbon pricing and incorporates an economic cost of other policies, such as regulation or subsidies. In France, it is the Quinet Commission that has established a trajectory of the tutelary value compatible with the national low-carbon strategy. These reflections really shed light on our public decisions on climate policy, but the determination of the tutelary value of carbon is not yet being considered at European level. At this stage, it would indeed be very complicated. As a first step, the European Union favours the development of European quota trading systems, known as ETS, with this carbon pricing instrument, particularly for the industrial, energy and aviation sectors. The European Commission proposes to extend this market to maritime transport, building heating and road transport and to apply a carbon adjustment mechanism at EU borders for certain industrial products in order to preserve the competitiveness of our companies. This European carbon market allows a carbon price to be set that guides the investments of the sectors concerned. This price rose sharply to reach up to €90 per tonne of CO as a result of reforms and the adoption of Europe's new climate target. The Commission's proposals, at this stage, appear to be rather consensual on ETS for industry, aviation, even the maritime sector and the carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, but they still require further refinement to be agreed. On the other hand, with regard to the extension of the construction and transport sectors to energy consumption, we can fear an extremely strong impact on households and small businesses, which gives rise to some reservations on my part, and even opposition on the part of Member States.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u61	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u62	The EU Energy Roadmap 2050 envisages different scenarios for decarbonisation of the energy system. These scenarios are characterized by several common elements: reducing fossil fuel imports, increasing the share of renewable energy in the energy mix, and modernising European infrastructure to improve the efficiency of the internal energy market. Under this roadmap, a European rather than a national approach will increase security and solidarity by lowering costs, creating a flexible and larger market for new products and services. Electricity will play an increasing role, and all scenarios stress that it will play a larger part in final energy demand and that it will have to contribute to the decarbonisation of transport and industry. If electricity is to contribute to the decarbonisation of the economy, the electricity generation system is expected to undergo major structural changes by 2030. Today, however, in terms of electricity generation, France has the lowest carbon balance in Europe, with the best CO production-emission ratio, which is therefore not reached by its neighbours. How will these virtuous efforts of France be taken into account in the requirements of the European roadmap?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u63	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u64	The European climate issue requires significant efforts to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions from all countries, even though our starting positions may be very different. France does not have to blush because it has one of the best carbon intensities in the European Union for electricity. In 2020, more than 90% of the French electric mix was decarbonised; our territorial greenhouse gas emissions per capita are also significantly below the European average and are fairly close to those of Italy, for example, with 6.8 tonnes per capita per year in France, for 7.2 tonnes in Italy. A significant improvement in carbon intensity has been observed in Germany, where it has been divided by more than two since 1991. But that is not enough to achieve our ambitious goals. It will therefore be absolutely necessary for us to electrify the economy, in particular transport, heating and industry, in order to achieve an electricity mix that is almost completely decarbonised. Several tools have been introduced to accelerate this decarbonisation, first and foremost the European carbon market, which is essential for energy production, industry and aviation throughout the European Union. Electricity producers are also required to return carbon quotas for each tonne of CO emitted, creating a powerful economic incentive for the development of carbon dioxide. Finally, other measures adopted at European level either directly apply to actors, such as the regulation on vehicle emissions, or set targets for the states they are required to achieve, such as energy efficiency or the development of NRIs. The European Union has also deployed mechanisms to finance the investments necessary for the transition and to assist in the conversion of the most affected regions and sectors. Of course, we are thinking of the Fair Transition Fund, the Innovation Fund or the various programmes of the Multiannual Financial Framework.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u65	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u66	I am going to have the pleasure of asking you two questions, since our colleague Dino Cinieri is unfortunately confined. My first question concerns multi-annual energy programming, the PPE. Over the past five years, there has been a form of zigzag nuclear policy. Initially, it was planned to close 12 reactors, a decision that you did not return to, and then we were told to build EPR, the European pressurized reactors, without specifying the number of them. Finally, the President of the Republic has somewhat opened the spectrum on small modular reactors, the SMR – Small Modular Reactors. In doing so, it gave a form of nuclear visibility but, at the same time, it stopped the ASTRID project, the fast, industrially-cooled, sodium-cooled vreactor, which solves the problem of nuclear waste. As a result, we do not know how many reactors there would be or how the problem of future nuclear waste would be solved if we kept a nuclear industry. There has been a zigzag on solar energy since you have decided, while strongly supporting renewable energies in the EPP, to review the support rates for this energy, which has made teeth grow. There was a zigzag on hydrogen since you announced that it could be produced with intermittent electricity, before giving the impression that it was rather with nuclear electricity. There was a zigzag on wind since the President of the Republic gave some signals announcing that this industry might have to be restricted. There was, at last, a zigzag on hydrocarbons since you started the legislature by wanting to ban them, while you finish it with coal-fired power plants in superregime. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] In order to try to clarify these great zigzags, should we not simply repeal the EPP and explain to the French what you want for the years to come?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u67	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u68	Unfortunately, I will have to make choices among the many questions you have just asked. Perhaps I will answer you on the timetable for reflection, since this is the general framework within which all our choices must be made. The orientation law is expected to lead to this new PPE in 2024. Concertations are already under way within the framework of the new energy-climate strategy. As our debates show, this reflection has been taking place for several months already, and you yourself are proving, this evening, that Parliament is heavily mobilized on these issues. There is a part of the nuclear that we have not re-examined; We have even reaffirmed the need for the evolution of our industrial tool in a timetable which makes it necessary for a very strong increase in the power of renewable energies. We cannot therefore make a radical choice in favour of either of these means of production; We can simply evolve our industrial tool so that we can meet our objectives within the time frame set. With regard to the ASTRID project, which has not shown its maturity at the industrial level, we preferred to abandon this research in favour of the functioning of the existing park, new reactors and a new park to which I will return with your next question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u69	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u70	At the very beginning of the year 2022, the French discovered a new word of vocabulary which comes from the Commission, that of the famous "taxonomy", this European classification to direct financing towards so-called green activities. Nuclear power is one of them, and parliamentarians The Republicans, both in the French Parliament and in the European Parliament, have been calling for nuclear power to be included for several years, despite strong opposition to this option in Germany. This is the problem because, on a large number of subjects, let us say clearly, the Germans, who are rather in favour of gas, and who are in any case opposed to nuclear power, have clearly diverging interests from our own. As far as taxonomy is concerned, you will agree that we may have welcomed a little bit quickly what was presented as a success, since the German coalition has sent a rather negative signal. Of course, nuclear is present, but it is included in the category of transition energies and not renewable energies, with very restrictive conditions since, according to this classification, the transition energies are reviewed every three years – it is a sword of Damocles. The construction of new plants is excluded from 2045, as is the extension of plants after 2040. Finally, taxonomy automatically excludes investment in essential steps for electricity generation, both upstream and downstream. All this is worrying for the future of the French nuclear industry. This is all the less acceptable as experts at the Joint Research Centre have concluded that nuclear energy is sustainable and should be recognized as such. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Given the latest signals sent to us by Berlin, my question is simple. France has been President of the Council of the European Union since 1 January. Are you finally going to defend French interests and engage a necessary arm of arms with Germany on this essential issue of industrialization in the country?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u71	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u72	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u73	I think we can enjoy this taxonomy. This framework was necessary and we are at the forefront of defining the fuel cycle and allowing investors to reorient their choices towards more sustainable companies, according to the mix we draw together. The final version of the delegated act of the Regulation must be proposed to us in the days, perhaps the hours that come. Once the text has been drawn up, the procedure can take place in the coming months under the French presidency. Of course, the dates of construction can be reviewed and the fuel cycle, even if not mentioned, will have to be taken into account. The inclusion of nuclear energy in the taxonomy proposed by the Commission responds to a strong demand from the French authorities. This energy, in fact, is essential to the decarbonisation of our economies. Similarly, strict criteria have been defined for the contribution of gas to the energy transition. We had to find this balance to accompany the transition – with nuclear power in France, with gas in other countries – and the urgent release of the most harmful fossil fuels. The decision to retain nuclear in the taxonomy is based on a detailed and independent scientific analysis. This lighting, this visibility will allow us to move calmly towards the new multi-annual energy programming – especially from the point of view of the French industrial tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u74	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u75	The next item is the debate on the follow-up to the proposals of the report of the Committee of Inquiry on the dysfunctions and shortcomings of French prison policy. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. We will begin by hearing speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then conduct a question-and-answer session. Mr. Philippe Benassaya has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u76	We are meeting to discuss the follow-up to the proposals of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, whose creation was requested by my group The Republicans, on the dysfunctions and shortcomings of the French prison policy, which I chaired. For several months, this commission has interviewed more than 130 people, including yourself, Mr.Minister of Justice – which I thank you for – and made several trips on the ground to give birth to a highly documented report with some 50 avenues for reflection. At the outset, I would like to thank the rapporteur of this committee, Caroline Abadie, with whom I have been able to work very intelligently; It was a pleasure. I also thank all the members of the Committee of Inquiry and the administrative team. The very name of this commission of inquiry has sometimes caused misunderstanding among some players in the prison world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u77	And ministers!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u78	But let's not fear words, and let's not turn our eyes away. "To name things wrong is to add to the misfortune of the world," wrote Albert Camus. For many of our compatriots, prison, it is first of all walls and, behind these walls, the unknown, a world that is frightening. However, the commission sought to understand and make clear what is behind, what is good and what is less good. The purpose of a commission of inquiry is to point out what is wrong and what could be improved. In this case, it was not a question of criminalizing the prison administration, but rather of examining our prison policy without complacency. This examination seemed urgent to us. Persistent prison overcrowding, increasing radicalisation, endemic suicide rates – 120 suicides in 2020, i.e. suicide every three days or so –, weak means for the medical sector, reduced employability of prisoners, lack of consideration for prison staff whose work is not always recognised, and the involvement of local elected officials in building projects: these are all signs of a tense situation. So it was never a question of putting the dust under the carpet, but, on the contrary, of taking a lucid look at the future of our prisons in Hexagon and overseas. To understand better, let's start with the numbers. There are nearly 190 prisons in France, including more than 80 overcrowded detention centres. I came back from a trip with our candidate Valérie Pécresse, who was very involved in the prison issue, to the prison in Tours, whose overcrowding exceeds 200%. In total, there are 69000 inmates for just over 600,000 places, and 1600 of them sleep on mattresses on the ground in nine-square-metre cells – this number has jumped by 140% in a year. The number of prisoners is expected to reach 800,000 by 2027. More than 1,000 prisoners were radicalized. The policy of occupational integration is in a free fall: 11 per cent of prisoners are illiterate and 65 per cent were unemployed before being incarcerated. Of course, efforts have been made in recent years, in favour of the renovation of buildings and the creation, for example, of support structures to the exit (SAS), but the account is not there. In many areas, the prison has accumulated delays and dysfunctions. However, the work of a commission of inquiry, however fundamental, has its limits. The conclusions are the result of a broad consensus and a trans-party parliamentary exercise. Is this a bad relationship? No, of course – I said it. It provides a detailed overview of the situation in our prisons. Is he going far enough? No, unfortunately. The Republicans' specifications were ambitious, demanding, precise. It is therefore up to us, together with my group, this evening to go further and to take a more political view of five priority themes. The first is the most important: it is the central issue of prison overcrowding. That is the crux of the problem, which hinders any credible and concrete policy that undermines the criminal response. Prison overcrowding is an old ideological sea serpent. Robert Badinter – all Robert Badinter he was – had said in his time: "I will not be the Vauban of the prison", and Christiane Taubira, in 2012, had cancelled the construction plan of 24,000 new places launched by the right when she was in charge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u79	Funniest mistake!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u80	We are still paying for this ideological bias. On this subject, you have to tell the truth and not pay for words. Napoleon said: "Nothing works in a political system where words play with things. » In 2017, candidate Macron, in his program, promised the creation of 15,000 prison places during the quinquennium. A program is not nothing: it is a roadmap. But this road map has not been respected. As far as the figures are concerned, let us be clear: of the 15,000 places promised, only 1950 operational places have been created. We are announced 7,000 construction sites launched but, in fact, they are only 5000 places, the other 2000 being a remainder of the Dutch government; No, no, no, no, no, You add to this the 8,000 places on site announced between 2022 and 2027 to arrive painfully to the 15,000 places promised. Yes, but in ten years, not in five years as promised: big shade! Prison overcrowding should have been your major concern, but you also underestimated it, or even neglected it. We will not neglect her. We propose to create 20,000 prison places by 2030, in consultation with local elected officials, that you forget. And, to make up for lost time as quickly as possible, we propose to transform old barracks and abandoned buildings into detention centres for first-time convicts or short sentences.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u81	Oh, here!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u82	You may laugh, minister, but this is my speech, not yours. This anxiety overpopulation has a major impact on the issue of individual confinement. Of course, this principle is difficult to respect, and I recognize it. But can we settle for a rate of 44% of individual confinement? It would have been preferable in the report to set a rate to be improved. In short, the creation of 1950 operational places is derisory...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u83	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u84	... in order to improve the criminal response, to renovate the conditions of detention and the working conditions of the officers. Let us just mention the situation of the agents, which is well addressed in the report. According to a rather good timing, or perhaps inspired by our report, you promised, Minister, that you would upgrade the supervisory profession. Good time! But who wants to become a prison guard? Who wants to evolve in an increasingly violent world? I recall that more than 4000 physical attacks against agents have been recorded in recent years. Who's worried about it? The agents, too long "scotched" in category C, suffer and regularly denounce the lack of recognition of their profession. Who's worried about it? In the town of Bois-d'Arcy, of which I was mayor, some young agents sleep in their car because they cannot easily access a dwelling. Who's worried about it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u85	No, but really...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u86	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] I have also tabled a bill – which I have addressed to you, Minister – to facilitate access by officers to social housing on the prefectural quota. Let's not forget them. They do a difficult job, and they do it with courage. The third question is radicality and prison intelligence. I regret that there is only one proposal on radical Islamism in the report. Only one proposal out of fifty-five is a little short. What signals do we want to send? As for prison intelligence, he was almost absent from the report. His agents are the poor parents of intelligence. They still do not have access, contrary to the proposal made by my colleagues Éric Diard and Éric Poulliat, to the file of the wanted persons, particularly the S sub-file. We also believe that it is essential to reassign the officers of the National Prison Intelligence Service (SNRP) to purely intelligence missions and not to time-consuming administrative tasks. The fourth question is occupational integration. In our famous "start-up nation", where it is enough to cross the street to find a job, the inmate's employability rate has fallen considerably, down to 29%: what happened? How can we combat recidivism without an ambitious plan for reintegration through education or vocational training? Fifth point: when 60% of inmates suffer from more or less severe addiction, the issue of access to care becomes sensitive. However, medical facilities are weak, doctors are lacking, including psychiatrists, but also dentists. The society must take care of the health of the detained persons. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Albert Camus, again, said that a society judges itself to the state of its prisons. It must be noted that the prison issue is now at the heart of public policy. This will necessarily be discussed during the electoral campaign that is opening. Prison policy is at the crossroads of our societal and human challenges. It cannot be satisfied with promises or announcement effects. We can no longer content ourselves with a prison policy along the water, little by little. The urgency leads us all to speed up the movement. Another more ambitious, faster, more proactive prison policy is possible. That's what I tried to show you tonight with my parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u87	Mrs Maud Gatel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u88	When we refer to prison policy, we refer to the daily lives of more than 42,000 officers of the prison administration and the living conditions of more than 69,000 people detained in our prisons. The latest figures from the Ministry of Justice show an increase in the prison population of about 10 per cent compared to 2021, a very special year, for about 60700 places available. In my constituency, there are 1020 inmates per 500 staff in the health facility and a prison density of 145%. The progress achieved under this five-year period must enable us to improve the living conditions of prisoners: it is a necessity both for the detainees themselves and for the staff and for society as a whole. Here we will welcome the upgrading of the profession of overseer, a measure recently announced by the Minister of Justice, who was keenly interested in our commission, particularly its chairman. In 20 years, the number of persons detained has increased by 32 per cent, while the number of operational places in prisons has increased by only 20 per cent, which has taken us away from the sacrosanct principle of individual confinement, as enacted by the Act of 5 June 1875, which has never been respected since.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u89	Yes, we're far from it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u90	The unprecedented financial effort made during this quinquennium has enabled a qualitative leap in real estate policy through construction, renovation and closure of the oldest establishments. The Justice Programming and Reform Act has set a target of 15,000 net places by 2027. By 2022, 7378 places will be open. Seven operations were completed by the end of 2021, fourteen are in progress and six will begin in 2022.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u91	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u92	We are very far from the commitment of the President of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u93	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u94	The delivery of another 8,000 places is planned for 2027, and five out of sixteen programmes have already been launched. These figures are incongruous with the efforts made under the previous five-year period. The difficulties and delays in carrying out such projects are known. That is why the cooperation of local elected officials is an indispensable prerequisite.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u95	They're not always on the rendezvous!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u96	The establishment of a prison may be of particular interest to local communities, as prisoners are counted in the calculation of the population. In this context, our committee calls for a global reflection on the financial incentives, be it the general operating allocation for communal equalisation for municipalities hosting prisons, the allocation of urban solidarity and social cohesion, the calculation of the rate of social rental housing or the financing of programmes such as Action cœur de ville or small towns of tomorrow. Prison work, an essential lever for reintegration, is also a subject of interest to the territories. While it has been a right since 1945, since the 2000s it has suffered a decline of the order of 50%. According to the Comptroller General of Places of Deprivation, only 20 per cent of detainees have access to work today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u97	It's very weak!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u98	Since the transfer of skills related to vocational training and employment to the regions, that is, since 2014, we have seen a worrying decline in the rate of access to vocational training: from 40% in the early 2010s to less than 13% in 2020. In order to strengthen conditions of access to employment for detained persons, the Law on Trust in the Judicial Institution has created a status of detained worker and a prison employment contract opening up new rights. Other initiatives, such as the PEPS label – Produced in Prison – value the work of inmates. This must be a priority because the work prepares for reintegration and allows the so-called "corrective" punishment, to borrow the words of Michel Foucault, to assume its full meaning. I will not conclude without addressing the issue of mental health in prison, including issues related to the fight against addictions and prevention. According to the Observatoire international des prisons (OIP), 119 prisoners committed suicide in 2020 in France. Health care suffers from a lack of resources and, in particular, a shortage of psychiatrists, which has led the committee to make proposals to remedy it. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] As we know, the rate of incarceration is not directly related to the crime curve, but rather to criminal policy. In our view, this issue will have to be addressed within the framework of the General States of Justice. Beyond the impact of the recommendations of our committee of inquiry, this is an issue for the sincerity and sustainability of our prison policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u99	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u100	First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues and the administrators for the quality of the work that has been done. I regret, however, that this committee of inquiry is more like a fact-finding mission, as it merely establishes a situation which has already been reported in this Parliament through several pieces of legislation passed by this House. When we started our work, I wished to recall that they could not, in their minds, call into question the work of the prison staff and the Prison Integration and Probation Services (SPIP), which we welcome for their commitment. Talking about prison means talking about prison overcrowding, reintegration, fighting recidivism and sentencing. It also highlights the importance of good practices and successes. To speak of prison is not to call for its abolition, as in the case of the death penalty in 1981, but at the very least to insist that most of the sentences are served outside the walls of the institutions. Talking about prison is also a pedagogy, at a time when public opinion is becoming more and more severe towards prisoners and is turning away from a prison policy that is not of interest to them. In fact, the subject is not cost-effective from an electoral point of view, even though it reflects the quality of our democracy and the state of our society. Recall that, according to a 2018 survey, 50% of respondents consider prisoners in France to be too well treated, 21% that they are treated correctly, and only 17% that they are not well treated; 12% say they don't know anything about this world. I will make four remarks. Firstly, the prison situation in France, the one we all know, is regularly denounced and condemned by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR). The prison population grew by 11 per cent in one year. The number of inmates is now 69500 for 60800 places, and 36 institutions have an occupancy rate of more than 150 per cent. France is one of the European states with the most crowded prisons. I therefore wonder whether, in proposal No 23 of the report, we should recall the deadline of 31 December 2022, the deadline for the end of the moratorium on individual confinement. Conditions of detention, however, are not fatal. With the health crisis, for the first time in 20 years, we have seen the rate of incarceration fall below 100 per cent. Secondly, the commitment to create 15,000 places by 2027, regardless of the credit given to it, must be accompanied by an appropriate policy of imprisonment because, as we know, "the more prisons are built, the more they are filled". This is the major lead in this report. There was an urgent need to decriminalize certain types of offences, reduce the number of pretrial detentions, increase the use of alternative sentences and penalties and increase parole. Thirdly, we believe that reintegration will not be achieved without an increased effort in prison education and training. The needs are immense: more than half of the detainees have no diploma, and the illiteracy rate is 10%. However, in the 2019-2020 school year, only 29% of the prison population was enrolled, at the rate of six hours of weekly education per person, an average which covers disparities between regions. A list of those involved in this training effort could have been drawn up by the commission of inquiry. Fourth point, finally: it would have been welcome to draw up a list of good practices, like those taking place at the prison centre of Varennes-le-Grand – creation of referents among prison supervisors, establishment of a bakery and a certificate of professional fitness (CAP), ways of integration experienced by the association Spring, man and heritage, involving detainees in the restoration of the buildings of our beautiful Burgundy. It should be noted, however, that associations that do remarkable work, too ignored, to support the fight against delinquency, reintegration and the fight against domestic violence suffer from a cruel lack of resources. They are subject to a permanent competition for grants and calls for projects, while their resources should be stabilised with funds registered over several years. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] All this to say that behind these issues of confinement and justice, women and men are mobilizing to keep meaning in their profession. We need to listen to them and support their commitment. We urgently need to put the justice budget at the level of European standards in the next two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u101	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u102	First of all, I would like to commend the quality of the work done by the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry and the rapporteur to translate into proposals the lessons learned from the 135 hearings they have conducted and the four visits to prison centres they have carried out. Even if their violins were not always granted – we will return to them throughout this session – I think modestly that our common desire to explore several parts of our prison policy has been a success. The reading of this report and its proposals reveals a leading thread, the overcrowding in prisons, which led part of our committee of inquiry to question the individual confinement. With regard to this totem, I must say that my personal position has changed a great deal throughout my mandate and even more so during this committee of inquiry. Individual confinement can be understood as the sacrosanct objective of our prison policy since the prison law of 1875. Initially calibrated for isolation to characterize punishment, this principle has been enriched by security considerations tending to avoid any form of criminogenic connivances. In 2000, it was engraved in the marble of a law that left it to the Government to make it effective within three years, a pious wish in view of the continuing increase in the number of prisoners. Despite this race lost in advance, the goal of individual confinement has been strengthened; In fact, it contributes to improving the dignity of the conditions of detention. Its implementation was the subject of moratoriums in 2003, 2009, 2014 and, finally, 2019, when it was postponed to 31 December 2022. On individual confinement, the report calls for a change of philosophy. In the light of past failures, it is proposed that this principle be guaranteed when the person incarcerated so wishes. This is an interesting lead, provided that it is preceded by a thorough medical and psychological examination of the inmates to determine whether the isolation would not, on the contrary, be harmful to some of them. On this point, I agree with the rapporteur's position: it must be considered that in some cases collective confinement, i.e. in a double cell, by promoting the maintenance of the dignity of persons, can have virtues in terms of socialization and the physical and mental health of prisoners. The proper application of individual confinement would be conditional on a sufficient number of prison places, some of which wanted to be the alpha and omega of the entire prison policy of this quinquennium. In 2019, the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law had covered 7,000 places delivered before 2022 and the launch of the next 8,000 before the end of the quinquennium. If the programme was delayed, it would be rude, if not demagogic, to put it on the shoulders of the Chancellery or the minister, since many territories had refused to give up land to build new prisons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u103	We didn't have to make those commitments!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u104	Prison places are like wind turbines: yes to the ecological transition, but not next to home! Yes to respect for the dignity of the detainees and the effectiveness of the sentence, but not in my constituency! In order to facilitate the effectiveness of the real estate programmes, we must insist that these constructions also provide for the opening of new support structures towards exit,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u105	It can't be a vertical decision!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u106	... institutions with a maximum of 180 places reserved for persons sentenced to less than one year or to long sentences but approaching the end of their detention. These SAS are intended to promote their empowerment and provide training tailored to the local labour market and housing support. In 2023, Osny, Meaux, Caen and Orléans should open. Despite these difficulties, it should be stressed that the budget dedicated to the maintenance of existing prisons, which are more or less aging, was strengthened after having been sacrificed in the two previous quinquennats. The annual budget for the maintenance and modernisation of establishments now amounts to EUR 130 million, compared with EUR 60 million previously. In conclusion, I agree with the rapporteur's proposals for a range of measures to reduce the rate of incarceration and improve conditions of detention. I am thinking in particular of the development of alternatives to prison sentences and the programming of medical examinations. It is necessary to break a taboo: some people do not have their place in prison, given their mental and mental health. I would like to take the opportunity to question the Minister on two points that are of great interest to me: the upgrading of the prison supervision profession and the effectiveness of the right to vote in our prisons. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Mr President of the Committee of Inquiry, the rapporteur, I would like once again to welcome your work, which I hope will lead to effective measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u107	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u108	More than 20 years have passed since the Senate investigation report "Prisons: A Humiliation for the Republic". A review of the current situation in our prison system was therefore more than relevant: I welcome the important work done by our colleagues, at the initiative of the Group of the Republicans, on a sensitive and complex subject. More than 20 years already and the finding has not varied: too few prison staff, a chronic overcrowding resulting in unworthy conditions for some prisoners; violence, religious radicalization, loss of effective punishment. The evils are known, the solutions are much less. The central problem, which leads to cascading dysfunctions, remains of course the overpopulation: 69812 prisoners for 60494 places, resulting in a prison density rate of 115.4% on 1 November 2021. The budget of justice is growing, and the number of places with it, this sad reality remains; It must be noted that successive policies in this area have failed to address it, which degrades the entire prison system. For example, France has been condemned on several occasions for the state of its prisons, for inhuman and degrading treatment. The ECHR considered that the occupancy rate of some prisons revealed "the existence of a structural problem"; The Court of Cassation and the Constitutional Council followed suit, calling for the creation of an effective remedy in the event of unworthy conditions of detention. As a result of these multiple difficulties, the prison is unable to combat recidivism and successfully conduct reintegration processes. The report on which we are debating shows a worrying finding in terms of vocational training: it concerns less than 13 per cent of prisoners, compared with 40 per cent in 2010. Lack of efficiency, the prison world sometimes becomes the breeding ground for delinquency and radicalization; In this regard, the diagnosis of your commission of inquiry is worrying. The many proposals put forward give rise, above all, to questions about the relevance of practices and to a vision for the future. They are useful to the extent that, with statistics and studies, we will have more precise data to guide prison policy wisely; Finally, they lay the foundations for a dialogue between the actors. The IDU and independent group will support most of them. Everything is welcome that will lead to better working conditions for prison staff, as the profession is difficult and often not well-recognized. To define care tailored to the needs and profile of the inmate, to develop activities and work in custody, and to give priority to alternatives to incarceration wherever possible, all essential reform axes that should be followed. Moreover, some of these proposals are already being implemented: the law of 23 March 2019 on programming 2018-2022 and reform for justice (LPJ) has made it possible to change the penalties, the recent status of the inmate worker is a good thing, like the law of 8 April 2021 to guarantee the right to respect for dignity in detention, which creates a remedy against unworthy conditions of detention. The Government's ambitions for the renovation of the housing stock are also in the right direction, but these are only partial reforms that are too often difficult to implement. The reality remains that the proposed measures would be able to address many of the shortcomings of the French prison policy, if the necessary resources were devoted to their implementation. In this sense, we have long regretted that most of the justice budget is intended only for the expansion of the prison park. The findings of the commission of inquiry demonstrate once again that the prison cannot constitute the alpha and omega of criminal policy; His report should inevitably give rise to a reflection on this policy as a whole. Our prisons today are the expression of the evil of French justice. Of course, the health crisis has exacerbated all the difficulties; It has also demonstrated the scope of the possibilities, since in 2020 the prison population reached a historically low level without any further disturbance to public order. Therefore, the follow-up to this report will have to be up to the diagnosis, far from the minimalist measures we know. Members of the IDU and independent group will exercise the utmost vigilance in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u109	Mr Olivier Falorni has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u110	The situation in French prisons is deplorable; No one can contest this reality. Violent, unsanitary, overcrowded, they have been for too long, far from preventing recidivism, real schools of delinquency, even sometimes incubators of Islamist radicalization. It is on this last point that I will concentrate on this evening, with a thought for the prison staff, who are working in extremely difficult conditions, in the midst of daily violence. Our prisons are not meant to be training centres for jihadist apprentices. They were: I discovered it a few years ago during an unannounced visit to the central house of Saint-Martin-de-Ré, in which a prefabricated building had been privatized by detainees and converted into a secret Salafist mosque. Certainly, the building was shaved by bulldozer and the prison yard, rehabilitated, is now controlled by video surveillance, but after how many years of blindness, cowardice, to buy inside the walls a peace that prepared the war outside? From Mohammed Merah in 2012 to Michaël Chiolo, who stabbed two prison guards in Condé-sur-Sarthe in March 2019, the list is long of terrorists who, before hitting France, radicalized behind bars.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u111	It's about time it was reported!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u112	In addition, a study by the Centre d'analyse du terrorisme, published in 2020, shows that 60 per cent of the jihadists convicted in France between 1988 and 2006 recidivated after their sentence. This major subject must be dealt with with with determination, without weakness. To date, 450 detainees for Islamist terrorism and 655 ordinary prisoners have been held in our prisons on suspicion of radicalization; By 2023, more than 200 radicalized individuals will be released from prison. It is therefore necessary to consolidate the arsenal of the law of October 30, 2017 strengthening internal security and the fight against terrorism, known as SILT law, in particular by means of security measures to be taken by the sentencing judge for a period of one year, renewable up to ten years in correctional matters and twenty years in criminal matters, as suggested by our honourable senators. Not only can we not leave in nature, without strict control, individuals whose danger would be proven, but we must prevent Islamist contagion in prison. Six years ago, as part of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on jihadist networks, I compared radicalization to a viral disease. It was long before the covid; However, experience shows that, in both cases, the urgency is to avoid spread, which requires hermetically isolating radicalized inmates from the ordinary prison population so that they do not contaminate them. This would require an increase in the number of places in isolation neighbourhoods, radicalisation care quarters (PRQs), so that detention in these structures can last as long as necessary. I do not forget the prison intelligence, which was really established after the recommendations of our commission of inquiry into the attacks of November 2015, which I was delighted to hear. Real progress has been made in this area; However, resources and, above all, staffing are still lacking. Staff assigned to this mission in institutions must be able to devote themselves full-time to this fundamental role. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] The fight against Islamist radicalization in prison is indeed crucial. Let us not be naive: we will inevitably have to strengthen the measures of surveillance, isolation and control of extremely dangerous prisoners, knowing perfectly how to conceal their intentions thanks to the famous taqiya, and whose extremist and violent ideology poses a real threat to our fellow citizens. The security of the French is at stake; It requires lucid and firmness.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u114	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u115	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for this committee of inquiry aimed at identifying the shortcomings and shortcomings of the French prison policy: we thus have a state of art – and science – bringing together all the elements in a single document. No great novelty: we are a certain number who attach themselves to and begin to visit prisons since the beginning of the legislature, so that the selected themes were already identified. The first one that comes to the mind of everyone is, of course, the overcrowding of prisons, at the heart of the dysfunction of any prison policy: three in a cell, plus a mattress on the ground, everything else flies apart and the activities or reintegration no longer have any meaning. Since I have heard figures here or there, I allow myself a small reminder: in detention centres and central houses, the confinement is individual; On the other hand, the occupancy rate in remand homes is 135 per cent. We are far from the 110% you get by taking into account the entire park, which does not reflect the reality. Let us remember that 40 per cent of the population of detention centres, or 18,000 persons, is in pre-trial detention pending trial: we must hammer this figure from which we should draw a number of conclusions! Of course, the open environment still encounters great difficulties; Prison integration and probation counsellors, even if they are more numerous, are still not enough and continue to have to juggle with the files, the measures, the people. Of course, you've relied on electronic surveillance at home, which makes it possible to avoid tracking: a bracelet, and the measurement is executed, it can be integrated into statistics, circulate, there's nothing to see! The meaning of punishment, however, does not lie in the wearing of a bracelet on the ankle, but on the contrary in everything that should be done around it, in the follow-up of the person placed under the hand of justice. A small effort must be recognized in relation to the work of general interest (TIG), even if the courts do not make sufficient use of it: perhaps they will do so more later. In short, the current prison policy results in an exorbitant cost and a high recidivism rate, especially after passing through the prison box. We incarcerate too much, not in comparison with other countries – in fact, most of us incarcerated more than ourselves – but because the process does not work if we consider the objective that is supposed to be ours and that we should all share: the distension, that is, the exit from delinquency. We should implement all possible and conceivable mechanisms to ensure that the convicted person does not commit a new offence; This is the profound meaning of prison policy. This would require open prisons and human-sized prisons. Fleury-Mérogis may be the pride of some, but frankly we don't have to be proud of having the largest prison in Europe that looks more like a factory, for those who work there as well as for those who are incarcerated there. Prisons should be located in the city rather than on the periphery, so that they are accessible to families, partners, associations and national education. It would also be necessary to ensure that there are semi-freedom bridges to local employment and associations to enable reintegration. The covid demonstrated that further release does not explode delinquency: the epidemic wave was not followed by the wave of delinquency that Ciotti liked to prophesy. Mental health remains a major issue. We lack psychiatrists, in detention as everywhere else. We lack psychiatric hospitals to meet the challenges. This probably explains this, so many people who have nothing to do with it find themselves in prison. Visiting Bonneville prison, I found that 14% of the inmates were there for recidivism. If they are recidivism, there is a fear that detention will not solve the problem. You can see that the resistance is not working. Only a criminal deflation would allow prison deflation. Immediate appearances, which were the first to be given prison sentences, should be abolished. Independent probation sentences would be required so that certain offences could no longer be punished with prison sentences. The package should be placed on the open environment: placement outside should become a public service in its own right. [[Mrs. Elsa Faucillon applauds]] Improving the conditions of some people's detention means improving the working conditions of others.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u116	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u117	On 11 January, Theo Sanha was found dead in his cell in Fresnes prison. The autopsy failed to determine the causes of his death. Theo was detained under pre-trial detention pending his immediate appearance before the Court of Créteil, which was to take place on the same day. Questions remain, including: Have the psychiatric history of Theo Sanha been taken into consideration? We will all be here, I believe, agreed that the light must be shed on this tragedy and that the family deserves answers. We see that the lack of resources and political will has a direct impact on respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of detainees, in principle protected by the United Nations resolution of 14 December 1990 on the treatment of detainees. The report resulting from the work of your commission of inquiry has the merit of highlighting the dysfunctions of French prison policy. However, it seems to me too broad and does not invite us to rethink our approach to prison, which should be considered as a last resort. The prison administration's budget is on the rise for 2022. It remains the first budget item of the Justice Mission. We do not believe that the extension of the prison park will solve the problem of overcrowding. The constant attempts to oppose the firmness of a so-called laxity, which is expressed in all the media during the presidential campaign, do not solve anything. You have to get out of the dogma "build to fill". According to OIP, between 1990 and 2020 the number of prison places increased from 36615 to 61080, an increase, however, with no effect on prison overcrowding, which now reaches 115 per cent at the national level, and 135 per cent in detention centres, with more than 1500 prisoners sleeping on mattresses placed on the ground. According to a Council of Europe report of March 2017, France is the only European country where the number of detainees is increasing. France is one of the fifteen countries that does not respect the basic rule of the prison condition. The unworthy conditions of detention in French prisons have been regularly denounced for many years, especially by us on several occasions in these places. Following 17 sentences by the ECHR and decisions of the Court of Cassation, the Constitutional Council established the prohibition of subjecting detained persons to conditions of imprisonment contrary to human dignity. Rather, the dysfunctions and tragedies associated with prison management prompt us to rethink our criminal policy in order to implement prison deflation. Solutions exist. We submit them to your reflection, and first of all to limit the rapid trial procedures. In the face of the shortage, prosecutors are increasingly resorting to procedures such as immediate appearance, particularly for the purpose of imprisonment. There is also a need to develop probation measures in an open environment: these repeated dramas invite us to change paradigms and to think of punishment other than by prison in order to respond effectively to the problems posed. Measures must be developed to reduce the effective length of the prison sentence by creating an ex officio parole system. We also propose that a major funding plan be implemented for psychiatric hospitals, which, for lack of space, cannot take care of prisoners who should not be incarcerated. In addition, the rights of prisoners must be respected, including the opening of polling stations in institutions and respect for the labour rights of prisoners. I am also thinking of prison education: I recall that those who provide it still do not receive the REP and REP + bonus – a strengthened priority education network – despite my repeated requests. [[Mr. Ugo Bernalicis applauds]] Finally, juvenile justice must be protected. Repeated attacks on the 1945 Order weaken justice and all too often lead to automatic incarceration. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mrs Laurence Dumont also applauds]] We need to rethink these questions according to a completely different paradigm because I fear that those who teach trials in laxism will lead us straight into the wall.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u118	Mrs Caroline Abadie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u119	First of all, I would like to thank Philippe Benassaya, who chaired the committee of inquiry with which I was the rapporteur and with whom I had great pleasure working for six months in a very calm atmosphere. [[Mr. Keeper of the Seals smiles]] I would also like to tell you how much I find this debate tasty. I have heard some ask us what we intend to do with the fifty-five proposals in my report, when they voted against its publication a few weeks ago, on the pretext that radicalisation would suddenly have become a central issue. I would remind you that last year the subject occupied a line of the road map that you sent me and 3 of the 135 hearings you proposed. However, I have not stalemated on this subject, ladies and gentlemen. We have worked on it for a long time and the figures are there, which show that the prison is not a home of radicalisation: 75% of prisoners suspected of radicalization are detected before they enter detention. The prison administration has done a remarkable job in preventing radicalization, developing assessment and radicalization management quarters, the QER and the QPR, and a whole detection protocol, and all this since 2014, well before the attacks. What is even more tasty is that the candidate of the Republicans whose programme you are defending in this forum is resuming proposals from this report! Mrs Pecress can already act in two areas, and you can, gentlemen, convey the message to her...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u120	She wasn't beaten in the regionals!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u121	It should use its competence in housing so that the overseers of Île-de-France no longer sleep in their cars, but also in vocational training: in Île-de-France, vocational training in detention fell below the dramatic rate of 5%, compared to 40% in 2014, before the transfer of this competence to the regions. Let us recognize, however, that this debate has the merit of honouring prison staff, probation counsellors and supervisors, and I know, Mr. Minister of Justice, how crucial the attractiveness of these professions is to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u122	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u123	In fact, last week you announced a re-evaluation of their remuneration. We propose in the report that we go further to the benefit of the statutory categories. With regard to prison overcrowding, which has been mentioned by all speakers, I would like to point out that the creation of 15,000 prison places was scheduled in 2017. We have noticed a delay on the first part of 7,000 places but we have been largely reassured by your services: everything is being built or concerted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u124	Of course.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u125	The land has been found. But we do not deny that the implementation of this programme has encountered obstacles, which are due not only to the crisis of the covid but also to the local and regional authorities which are always asking us for more imprisonment but refuse to do so on their territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u126	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u127	There are levers: I propose, apart from any political posture, that they be strengthened. On real estate again, Minister, I would like to congratulate you that the renovation budget has increased threefold compared to 2011: it is a great subject of pride. As for individual confinement, I would like to dispel what is perhaps a misunderstanding: if I question the principle, I am as attached to it as you are. On the other hand, if inmates wish to occupy double-occupation spaces, why not? I think we will have this debate on the moratorium. Achieving the goal of individual confinement also requires reforms in criminal policy. We voted here; They must apply even more widely and, of course, we must not go back to Mrs Dati's floor sentences. The subject of health has been pointed out by many of my colleagues as a source of concern. Human resources need to be strengthened: aligning the number of health professionals at the disposal of a truly small prison population in this area, with the actual number of prisons, could be a first avenue. There is also a need to develop policies to reduce risks in detention. All this should not be seen as a cost but as a lever for reintegration. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our common responsibility is to deliver a speech of truth, even in the electoral campaign. Yes, the prison punishes and tries to reintegrate where all other public policies have failed. Yes, prison is useful, but other penalties are equally effective in punishing and reintegrating.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u128	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u129	That is true, this debate is somewhat tasty, but it is the flavour of bitterness. So we wouldn't have done anything? I recall that France was condemned at a time when others were in power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u130	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u131	Yes, but that's the answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u132	We're not in a courtroom!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u133	Apparently you're gonna call me 35 times I've been a lawyer! Know that I'm proud of it, and it doesn't matter if it bothers you. Every time we offer here a quantum of punishment, you want to increase it. When we propose a year you want three, when we propose three, you want six. And you're talking about prison overcrowding! It's amazing! Never before have I heard you ask for a quantum of punishment lower than we could offer. Some are even willing to incarcerate people not because of what they have committed but because of what they could commit: it is called the Guantánamo in French – I invented this expression, Mr Diard; It has been taken over and some of you are proud of it. You want to introduce floor sentences: a great way to deal with prison overcrowding! One of you – he has now gone very, very right – even wanted to create a state security court without possible appeal, I pass and the best since we have heard everything.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u134	That's why he left!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u135	Then you come to talk about prison overcrowding, like a bunch of scared virgins. It's a height! When Nicole Belloubet, my predecessor, released, because of the pandemic, some prisoners who were at the end of their sentence – they had one month left in prison – expressly excluding those who had been convicted of offences such as violence against women, you objected. Did you vote for the PJA called "Block Sorrow"? You are talking about alternative solutions, as you constantly defend in your electoral programs the imprisonment for small penalties for low-intensity crime. At some point, you have to choose! I'll hear everything, but maybe not anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u136	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u137	I've already said I'm not a dogmatic; I try to be pragmatic and, at least I hope, lead a nuanced policy. Nuance is important when it comes to prison. I assume firmness, but without demagogy; I assume humanism, but without angelism. First of all, I wanted to thank you, both of you, for the quality of the work done by your committee of inquiry, after months of detailed hearings. You went far beyond the title of the mission, on which I will not return – nevertheless, considering from the outset the dysfunctions of prison policy did not really give the competent administration a presumption of innocence! Let's move on.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u138	It's to do better!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u139	Your report was meant to be constructive, looking really for ways of improving it. That is why I regret, like the rapporteur, that those who requested the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry did not vote for the publication of her report. To get to the bottom of it, I will focus on the main thrusts of its recommendations. First, to provide better working conditions for prison staff. I am pleased to see that this point is placed first because you know – or perhaps you don't know? – how much I have had at heart since my arrival to value the action of prison staff, with missions so often unknown. Yes, Mr President, the rapporteur, the women and men who carry out prison missions must be recognized for their hard work, professionalism and dedication. They do indispensable, unknown, difficult and sometimes dangerous work. Recognition, of course, is the value of missions. The charter signed last April with three national trade union organisations – never seen for more than twenty years –...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u140	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u141	... who asserts that the prison supervisor is not just a key ring but one that accompanies the inmate on his journey, reinforces this recognition. The fundamental principles of this charter are being deployed throughout the country. Recognition is also the improvement of working conditions. The budget for social action has increased in the last two years in the same proportion as that of the Ministry. To respond more specifically to your request, Madam rapporteur, I confirm that I have decided to build housing for young professionals on two francilian rights. The accommodation will be available to staff at the end of next year. Recognition, at last, is salary revalorisation. I hear that this sector is not attractive. It should be noted, however, that 4500 jobs were created and that 120 million euros were allocated to the indexation and compensation of prison staff between 2017 and 2022. So compare these numbers with yours before promising the moon or making night promises that, by the way, will never see the light!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u142	You're the one who said it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u143	I can mention the significant revalorisation of premiums, the plan to requalify supervisory staff or the creation of a new category A corps within this sector. I am also thinking of the transition to category A of prison integration and probation counsellors. In your proposals, you refer to the inclusion of overseers in category B. This is a legitimate request, with advantages but also disadvantages; It is therefore only possible to operate gradually. We have recently taken an important first step in improving the career development and indexing of supervisors and brigadiers through the merger of these two ranks. Bridges to build more varied and richer career paths are also being finalized, especially for managers. There's still a lot to do. I often mention the following triptych: what we did; what others have done; and what remains to be done. Without this triptych, we would find it difficult to assess things.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u144	You're in power!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u145	I'm telling you about my record and I think I can compare it to others without blushing. Since these walls have ears, I want them to have a memory as well. Much remains to be done, I said, particularly in the area of both initial and continuing training. I would like to announce that the management of the prison administration will make proposals on this subject quickly, on the basis of your reflections. The second main focus of the report's recommendations was to address the problem of overcrowding and improve conditions of detention. As you know, the Government has embarked on an ambitious real estate programme, the most ambitious in 30 years, aimed at building 15,000 net prison places.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u146	In 2017 or 2022?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u147	We have committed ourselves to this programme because it is imperative to guarantee, first of all, the effectiveness of the criminal response, which remains a priority to ensure the security of all; It is necessary, then, to improve the working conditions of prison staff who take care of prisoners and whose essential role I have recalled in the work of justice; Finally, it is essential to deal with the dignity of conditions of detention. This real estate program will bring the total number of places available in 2026-2027 to 75,000. Of the first 7000 places, more than 2000 have already come out of the ground and the following 5000 are at a very advanced stage of construction. I have sent you photographs attesting to these achievements. Fourteen operations are under construction throughout France, particularly in the cities of Caen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u148	That's not you! That was before!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u149	...of Le Mans, Avignon, Koné, Gradignan and Troyes. Excuse me, Congresswoman?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u150	The construction of the prison in Caen is not your fault!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u151	[[Exclaims on a few benches in the LR group]] Forgive me, but we're building the new arrest house in Ifs! I can also show you the progress of the work. It may not be because of us, but you had not planted a single tree or laid a brick: it is we who do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u152	If you reason like that, it is not true either: it is the workers who lay the bricks!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u153	It's like it's enough to get a prison out of the ground with a slam of fingers! You know perfectly well that it takes time. You also know, since you blame us for this, that the covid-19 has considerably delayed the progress of the projects. However, I affirm that we will be meeting our obligations and commitments no later than 2026-2027. This is true for prisons as well as for closed educational centres – I inaugurated one this morning in Bergerac, another last week in Epernay. The second component of 8,000 places is also under way since the 16 sites are now identified and the phase of local consultation and preliminary studies is under way. You know how complicated it is to find the land, how much those who are most in need of security are the least generous in this matter: we are told "that we need a new prison", but "if possible in the neighbouring district or municipality, at the bottom, very far away. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u154	Involve local elected officials!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u155	But everyone knew. You were the plaintiffs. How many times have I heard you call for the construction of prisons during questions to the Government? We will see when the time comes, with regard to some prisons in the Paris region, whether you have helped or on the contrary hindered their realization.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u156	Work in partnership!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u157	[[Caroline Abadie applauds]] We are even going beyond this with the plan to set up a prison in Magnanville. You'll tell me who favored this project and who slowed it down considerably. There's what they say and what we do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u158	I work with elected officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u159	Magnanville will help to relieve the congestion at the Bois-d'Arcy prison, which you know well, Mr. President Benassaya. We'll talk about it again when the time comes. This result is the result of a mobilization, since my arrival, with the local elected representatives in order to identify the sites necessary for the construction of new establishments. They were the subject of an announcement last April for the launch of the second phase of construction. This real estate programme is also based on an unprecedented budget, which amounts to €400 million in 2022. It wasn't "before," it wasn't the others who did it, Ms. Dumont: it was us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u160	You've done everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u161	No, but I didn't do anything either.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u162	Nobody said you didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u163	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] We have done things and I have the humility to say that many remain to be done. But, gracefully, do not present yourself as people of the right to the great heart who would be concerned about certain issues while we would do absolutely nothing. For my part, I affirm that we will be at the rendezvous of the commitments made by the President of the Republic and that you are making a very bad trial for electoral reasons which only look at you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u164	It's theater! Nobody said you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u165	The difference between you and us is that we build the prisons hard and do not plan to use abandoned hotels or build Algeco or ghost barracks. We are working on real projects, which I would like to make available to you. The budget for the real estate programme is 400 million. I would add that, beyond the construction of new establishments, the budget for securing and renovating existing ones has also been increased. While 60 to 80 million were spent annually on maintenance between 2014 and 2016, which was largely insufficient to ensure the sustainability of the structures, staffing was substantially increased during the period 2018-2022. In 2022, the housing allocation for the establishments amounted to nearly 138 million, 115 of which will be devoted to maintenance. Beyond the latter, an exceptional investment plan of 100 million is planned for the securing of existing prisons: anti-projection nets, anti-drones, interference with communications and the securing of parking spaces. In total, 636 million euros will be allocated to prison real estate, an increase of 62% in two years!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u166	I called him back.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u167	I would like to receive all the lessons from the world, but I would like to recall a few figures. We have also changed legislation, in order to strengthen the effectiveness of the criminal response. The LPJ aims, of course, to favour alternatives to imprisonment for offences of the lowest intensity – to agree with you, on the contrary, you want small sentences to be executed in prison, and you do not want alternative solutions –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u168	Who said that, when?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u169	... but it also imposes a prison sentence of more than one year. Prior to its entry into force, sentences of up to two years' imprisonment were not executed immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u170	It's a big delusion!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u171	No, it's not a big delusion, it's the law you passed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u172	Nobody said that, he's your monologue!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u173	We have not only lowered the threshold for the execution of custodial sentences, but also given more meaning to their execution, in order to better prevent recidivism – this is essential. The Law on Trust in the Judicial Institution, promulgated on 22 December 2021, has thus changed the regime of reduction of sentences in order to value the effort made by the detainee, rather than to apply a form of automaticism. Inciting the inmate to invest fully in his or her detention path gives meaning to his or her sentence and reinforces the effectiveness of the criminal response. I come to the third axis of your recommendations: to develop specific support. This is the object of the real estate programme aimed at creating 15,000 additional places, which provides for various types of institutions to finely adapt the detention regimes to the profile of the inmates: secure places, secure and safe detention centres, support structures for exit, workplace-oriented establishments – I am thinking in particular of the INSERRE project, for Innovate by experimental structures of accountability and reintegration through employment. Within prisons, neighbourhoods specific to certain problems are developing – I am obviously thinking of the fight against radicalisation, but also of units for violent prisoners. With regard to the fight against radicalisation, I would like to recall the work carried out during the quinquennium to strengthen the legislative arsenal aimed at detecting, monitoring and obstructing individuals who may be radicalised. Most recently, the Act of 30 July 2021 on the prevention of terrorist acts and intelligence created a new security measure for the post-carceral follow-up of radicalised persons. The supervision of the latter has been strengthened thanks to the radicalisation assessment districts (ERQs), created in 2017, and then, from 2019 onwards, to the radicalisation management districts for prisoners assessed as proselytes or likely to be violent. Finally, the monitoring of detainees with security threats or risks has been strengthened: additional resources have been provided to the National Prison Intelligence Service. As you can see, the Government's efforts are aimed at fulfilling two prison-specific tasks: protecting society from the most dangerous individuals, and reintegrating detainees to prevent recidivism. Let us move on to the last two lines of your recommendations: to develop activities in detention, in connection with the outside, and to include prison in the life of the city. Before we include prison in the life of the city, we must be able to include it in the city.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u174	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u175	However, if everyone pleads for the effective enforcement of sentences, there are local elected officials who oppose the establishment of prisons on their territory – as I have already pointed out. Some elected officials are nevertheless convinced that the prison is not a stigmatizing building for their commune, and that it must be an integral part of the life of the city, combining enhanced security with important economic benefits. We got to identify sites with them, and I thank them for that. Including prison in the life of the city also means giving prisoners the opportunity to work. Work in detention is an essential part of the reintegration process, which must be carried out in order to prevent recidivism as best as possible. In addition to the income it provides, the work allows the inmate to receive training that he or she can take advantage of when he or she leaves. Within the framework of the law for confidence in the judicial institution, I defended the creation of a real contract of employment for the inmate – you recalled it. Companies must participate in this virtuous mission, daring to offer work in custody. I have taken various actions to promote it: for example, this summer I spoke to the MEDEF – Mouvement des entreprises de France – alongside Élisabeth Borne, Minister of Labour, Employment and Integration, to convince employers to bring work to prison. A platform has been put on-line to present them with a map of the establishments; it details the available workshop surfaces, the productions already made and all the practical information that can facilitate the administrative procedures that a boss envisages before choosing the prison where he will make a manufactured object.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u176	It's roots and wings!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u177	Roots, wings and work: it's perfectly summed up, Mr. Diard. Beyond detention, we have promoted, during the quinquennium, other measures that have been widely proven in the prevention of recidivism, and which involve the city and civil society in the execution of sentences: I am referring to the work of general interest, which is particularly suited to suppress the incivilities of everyday life. To make sense, however, this form of punishment must be carried out quickly. That is why the Act of 8 April 2021 improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response, which was the result of a proposal by MP Dimitri Houbron, and its implementing decree of 22 December 2021, have made a part of the work procedure of general interest a diversion and brought several administrative simplifications. At the same time, we are pursuing a very proactive policy of increasing and diversifying the supply of TIG posts, particularly to local authorities. We created the General Labour Agency in 2018 – others are proposing it today, but it already exists, thanks to us! With its network of seventy-two local referents, it is responsible for prospecting new TIG posts. Thanks to the innovative IT tool TIG 360 °, the procedure is dematerialized for all players. Despite the health crisis, we have 21635 jobs of general interest, of which 1456 are open to minors, compared to less than 18,000 in 2019, an increase of more than 20% in three years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] As you can see, we have launched a number of actions designed to be sustainable, which are in line with the report's recommendations. While the prison must first be a place of execution of the sentences guaranteeing the safety of all, it must also be a place of reintegration that allows a return to society, under conditions that guarantee security themselves. The proposals in your report will allow us to go further to improve the prison situation, in a fragile balance between the essential firmness and the necessary humanism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u178	We come to the questions. I would remind you that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u179	I would like to ask you, Minister, about the policy of reinsertion of prisons. The top priority is, of course, to address overcrowding in prisons, which is at the heart of the problem of our prison policy. Unfortunately, of the 15,000 additional prison places promised by Emmanuel Macron during the quinquennium, only 2000 will actually have been delivered in five years – I know you are challenging it, but that is the reality, and the facts are stubborn.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u180	The numbers don't lie!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u181	This delay and failure make it even more difficult to apply a firm criminal response adapted to each crime. If we want to be decisively effective in the long term, deprivation of liberty must be accompanied by preparation for reintegration, which is essential to combat recidivism. In 2017, candidate Emmanuel Macron committed to putting work "at the heart of grief". However, the observation is overwhelming: only 28 per cent of prisoners work in prison. This situation is detrimental to society as an inmate who works recidivism is less than an inmate without an activity. In order to ensure sustainable reintegration into society, concrete measures in the field of education and vocational training must be implemented, and prisoners must be allowed to carry out an activity – the task is heavy, when 11 per cent of them are illiterate. Reintegration also requires a complete review of the health care of prisoners – I am thinking in particular of psychological and psychiatric follow-up in prison, which is totally saturated, while 60 per cent of prisoners have an addiction to drugs or alcohol, or suffer from mental disorders. We have made many proposals aimed at decisively accelerating reintegration; In particular, we propose to generalize the accompanying structures towards the exit. In my department, the Fresnes prison – one of the oldest in France, which has an urgent need for renovation – is for example without it. There is also a need to strengthen prison integration sites and the capacity of the prison services for detention. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Mr Minister, we must finally give ourselves the means for an effective and pragmatic prison policy. Among the proposals that we have put forward, which do you think you will retain, and with what timetable for implementation?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u182	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u183	If I agree with your observation, Mr. Member, I am somewhat saddened by the way in which you present things: you seem to have become aware of a problem that would completely escape us, and we would have done nothing...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u184	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u185	The tone of your remarks let him hear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u186	It's a real obsession of the seal keeper!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u187	However, I would like to point out that the bill for confidence in the judicial institution that I introduced – and that you did not vote – included a preparation for exit, because I absolutely want to avoid dry exits. You have approved many articles, but at the time of the final vote you abstained, for reasons beyond my control. Whatever. Now, you focus your absolute interest on prison overcrowding and on certain measures that were within the reach of your vote, but that you did not approve.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u188	Start by answering!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u189	Note that I also created the contract of the inmate worker, to bring work back to prison – I explained it to myself at length. In fact, more than 28 per cent of detainees are now active.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u190	They were 50% a few years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u191	We have also put an end to automatic remissions, to encourage inmates to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u192	The insertion is in a free fall!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u193	I would add that eight SASs are currently under construction, and that it is planned to create another twenty by 2026. Finally, in this bill, I have defended a measure of release under duress in its own right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u194	What about the ever-falling insertion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u195	Mr Eric Diard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u196	My question will not be controversial, Mr. Keeper of the Seals; I will not tell you again about the cruel lack of prison places, or the denial of the rapporteur of the commission of inquiry about radicalisation in prison. Instead, I want to go back to experience. In June 2019, Éric Poulliat and I presented a report to conclude a public service information mission in the face of radicalisation. We had noted the rise in prison intelligence, made visible in particular by the increase in the number of staff in recent years. Unfortunately, during the commission of inquiry, we found that prison intelligence was suffering from significant deficiencies, since an SNRP officer was following between fifty and seventy files on average. The trade unions reported that in the Strasbourg Interregional Unit, only one officer was responsible for prison security in the 23 facilities in the Greater East Region. The problem is that the increase in staff is not being used properly. In fact, local delegates have officers specifically recruited to carry out intelligence missions, but when they are assigned, institutions sometimes assign them purely administrative tasks. The unions stress the significant gap between the political will and that of the administration, which takes too many freedoms with the means given to it. How do you intend to make prison intelligence more effective, essential for detecting radicalization and preventing terrorism? In our report, I welcomed the existence of this intelligence service, but the unions say that it is badly affected and underemployed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u197	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u198	You announced a constructive question! The successive finance laws provided the SNRP with a reinforcement of 109 agents between 2018 and 2020. This increase in staff has met the objectives set by the Act of 3 June 2016 and the requirements for the integration of prison intelligence into the second circle of intelligence services. Depending on the years, reinforcements are distributed among the positions of local prison intelligence delegates; accompanying the structure and coordination of the network at national level; strengthening the analytical and investigative capacity of the SNRP and training in prison intelligence. I would point out that the National Prison Service employs 333 officers; 6.6 per cent are dedicated exclusively to administrative tasks and 7.2 per cent carry out some administrative tasks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u199	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u200	You say no, but that's the prison administration's figures. You have other information, through the trade union. I respect the trade union path, but I also respect the director of my prison administration: when he gives me figures, I naturally tend to believe them true.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u202	Maybe that's the problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u203	Mr Jean-Pierre Cubertafon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u204	I congratulate all members of the Committee of Inquiry on the comprehensive overview of the prison policy they have carried out. It provides interesting avenues for reflection in order to change a part of our administration. On various occasions, during my term of office, I have looked at the evolution of the status and missions of prison staff; My question concerns the proposals for reform of staff training. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] The third proposal in the report aims to align the duration of the initial training of supervisors with that of peacekeepers, in order to improve the professionalisation of the entire sector. This recommendation is based on a laudable philosophy. Nevertheless, such a reform would require significant financial and human resources, at the risk of remaining a pious wish. Can you give us some information on the appropriations that would be needed to get this proposal out of the word stage and into the act field?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u205	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u206	First of all, Mr. Cubertafon, I'm glad to see you again. We met earlier in Périgueux; I came from Bergerac, where we opened a closed educational center. There's the words, and there's the actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u207	You, that's a lot of words, a lot of actions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u208	This brand new centre will soon host a dozen juvenile offenders and twenty-seven professionals. Initial training of supervisors is essential. They are responsible for ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens, in a particularly difficult environment. Their other task is to promote the reintegration of the public entrusted to the prison administration. Faced with these challenges, the duration of the training – six months of schooling and twelve months of probationary training – and its content have already been rethought in 2018. The teachings have been densified; The emphasis has been on the basic aspects of the supervisory profession, with a significant share given to probationary periods, in order to promote the professionalisation of officers. In addition, this training is subject to regular adaptations, in order to better take into account the diversity of the duties of a supervisor. The report refers to the content of initial training; This is one of the fundamental issues addressed in the General States of Justice. Depending on the conclusions of the various working groups, it may have to evolve, including by extending its duration. The idea must be deepened in order to properly identify needs, define the content of initial learning, determine the modalities of the reorganization of the curriculum of the National School of Prison Administration (ENAP) and, of course, articulate the training times at the School with those in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u209	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u210	My question concerns the medical care, including psychiatric care, of detained persons. It has a direct impact on their conditions of detention and on the working conditions of staff and caregivers. The report draws up a report on this subject which corresponds in all respects to what I have seen in my department. Last week I visited the public mental health facility in Caen and met with the Regional Medical Psychological Service (RPMS). I observed a lack of resources; a shortage of places in the specially designed hospital unit (UHSA) in Rennes, on which we are currently dependent; the lack of visibility on the outcome of the UHSA project in Normandy; persons detained in solitary confinement in the public mental health facility, not without consequences for the reception of other patients. I am pleased to note that the rapporteur recommends that medical staff be involved in projects for the design and renovation of facilities. Similarly, it is essential to calculate the resources allocated for the care of new institutions on the basis of the actual number of persons detained, not on the basis of the number of theoretical places. A prison is under construction in my constituency. However, it seems that there is a great lack of such cooperation,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u211	Yes, always the same problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u212	This is what the chosen ones say, Mr. Keeper of the Seals!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u213	...which worries the main stakeholders who, moreover, do not get answers to their questions. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] What is the planned UHSA construction schedule? What instructions are given for planning the number of care workers and for involving staff in construction projects?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u214	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u215	I confirm that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is fully associated with the architectural design of prisons. Difficulties may arise here and there, which you can tell me about; I'll make sure to solve them. For each real estate project, the regional health agency (ARS) participates in all stages of the project management and construction – the reasons are well understood. Working meetings are organised to take into account the local specificities identified in the provision of care and human resources. More specifically, with regard to specially equipped hospital units, whose security was adapted for the psychiatric care of prisoners, 2021 was used to ensure that the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Directorate of Penitentiary Administration established a common exchange of experience, with site visits and satisfaction surveys. Three new UHSAs will be created, in Normandy, Occitanie and Île-de-France, with a steering committee that involves the departments of the two ministries, who work together regularly. However, a period of approximately three to four years is required to open a UHSA. You're asking me for details on the schedule; I can't provide more. I stress that the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Justice work closely together in many areas – we do not do things in our corner and the Ministry of Health is closely associated with construction. I repeat that if you encounter difficulties here or there, you can tell me about them and I will discuss them with Olivier Véran.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u216	Mr Dimitri Houbron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u217	The opening of prisons to civil society is discussed at length in the report. I have adopted the proposal to create open houses so that the public can enter the establishment and see the reality. Indeed, many of the ideas received are circulating. I also endorsed your proposal a few weeks ago to bring in bosses, to build reintegration with them. I also want to address the question of the right to vote, which the report only touches on. At the time of the European elections, your predecessor had worked actively to ensure that detainees could vote. Just over 160 of the 188 institutions had taken part in this democratic momentum and 85 per cent of the inmates had voted, demonstrating their interest in this act of citizenship. I would like to know your road map to prepare for the presidential and legislative elections and what steps you will take to allow detainees to vote. Regarding the attractiveness of the prison supervision profession, you announced last Friday a real statutory evolution: the rank of supervisor and brigadier will be merged, in order to facilitate career paths. You also mentioned an increase of more than 200 euros per month in remuneration, which will be around 2000 euros net, allowing objectively to improve the attractiveness of the profession. Can you give us more details on this reform and give us a timetable for its implementation, so that the agents can benefit from it as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u218	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u219	With regard to the elections, the measures adopted in 2017 will be renewed for the presidential and legislative elections. Detainees who have rights must of course be able to participate in these essential democratic meetings. To reassure you in this area, even if it is probably useless, I would add that the detainees had not been forgotten during the organization of the general states of justice and that they participated in very large numbers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u220	Paranoia!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u221	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u222	I'm acting like you, I'm laughing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u223	Second, the rank of overseer and brigadier will be merged to make the career much more fluid, since supervisors will no longer be obliged to pass units of value. Ask them what this is about, you will understand that the measure is particularly appreciated. They will no longer need units of value to be included in a promotion chart and progress in their career, which will take place more quickly, with a revalued remuneration. We have greatly increased the indices, whether at the beginning, middle or end of the career, with an increase of 30 points at the beginning of the grid and 19 points at the last step, which is 1000 euros more per agent per year. A supervisor holding the units of value became a brigadier after thirteen years; he was on the second brigadier step, at index 398. After the reform, with thirteen years of seniority, he will reach the 430 index and will be assured to finish at the 502 index, against the 483 index before. The merger will accelerate the career: it took twenty-four years for a supervisor to reach the last step of his rank; with the new grid, it will reach it in twenty-three years, with a higher index. During the quinquennium, the remuneration of supervisors increased by €200 net per month from €1770 to €1990.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u224	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u225	The issue of the IDU and independent group will focus on juvenile justice. We have invested heavily in juvenile criminal justice reform. I've been doing my part and I've been working on it for many years. We had tabled amendments to limit to the maximum the pretrial detention of minors over the age of 16 and to apply it to repeat offenders. The report by our colleagues goes back to this issue, taking into account a fact that I had already made more than ten years ago: 70 per cent of minors in prison are in pre-trial detention. In a report I made in 2009, this figure is exactly the same, which means that in ten years, nothing has changed. This rate is all the more worrying as we know that pre-trial detention does not contribute to the effective care of juvenile detainees. Are the measures now included in the Juvenile Criminal Justice Code bearing fruit? It's important to know that. Do the magistrates already apply them? Do you have an initial assessment of their impact on the number of juvenile detentions? If you do not notice any particular effect, would you be willing to go further, perhaps on the basis of the few proposals we made?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u226	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u227	If I have a few numbers, we'll have to look at this over a longer period of time. The numbers are always distasteful, but sometimes they measure things better than words. Since the entry into force of the Code of Criminal Justice for Minors (CJPM), there has been a change in the number of defendants (68 per cent on 1 January 2022, compared with 76 per cent on 1 October 2021), a slight increase in the number of convicted persons (32 per cent on 1 January 2022, compared with 24 per cent on 1 October 2021) and an overall decrease in the number of minors in prison (as of 1 January 2022), 616 minors were incarcerated, compared with 754 minors on 1 September 2021, and 825 minors incarcerated on 1 January 2020. It will be necessary to assess, in the coming months, whether these first trends are confirmed. In the continuation of the 2018-2022 programming and justice reform law, the CJPM reaffirms the exceptional nature of the imprisonment of minors, prohibiting prison sentences of less than one month and developing sentencing arrangements at all stages of the proceedings. These are the first figures we have.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u228	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u229	I agree with the observation, often referred to, that the rate of occupancy of prisons now stands at 115 per cent, with 700,000 prisoners for 61,000 operational places. In jails, it is even 136 per cent. This overcrowding is considered unacceptable by all, and has led France to be condemned repeatedly by the ECHR because of conditions of detention in violation of Article 3 of the Convention which it seeks to enforce. According to the members of the Libertés et Territoires group, the answer should not be limited to the construction of additional prison places, and alternative penalties should be developed massively. Many studies have proved this, prison produces offenders, and systematic incarceration leads to nothing. Alternative educational penalties – which also benefit from being more effective in preventing recidivism – must be given priority as soon as possible. The work facilitates the reintegration of prisoners. Those who work or undergo training are twice as likely to repeat their work as others: in our view, the work of general interest must develop, whereas today it concerns only 7% of the sentences handed down. The explanation, we all know: it is to be sought in the lack of availability of magistrates or prison advisers for insertion and probation, to approach the places of TIG and to ensure the follow-up. In particular, the National Agency for Labour of General Interest and Vocational Integration (ATIGIP) faces difficulties. Minister, will the target of 30,000 TIG posts promised by 2022 be achieved? The Law on Trust in the Judicial Institution allowed the creation of a contract of employment and the opening of social rights for detainees. We question the practical application of this measure: will it be accompanied by means on the ground to make it effective, even though it is known that it is very difficult for prisoners to find work proposals?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u230	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u231	If I had to answer you in two words, Mr Acquaviva, I would say yes to the first question and yes to the second, but I will develop. As far as the TIGs are concerned, we are at 21,600 active posts today: I therefore believe that the target of 30 000 posts will be maintained. Post offers increased by more than 23%. Without the pandemic, we would certainly be close to the target set, or even to the target set. We have set up national referents, the signing of agreements with the actors having an implantation throughout the national territory, and a platform, TIG 360 °, available to all lawyers in our country, who can thus propose TIGs, when they were previously unaware of their existence – not what is the work of general interest, but what is available. With regard to prison work, we propose a mapping, so that Dunkirk's employer knows where, in the North, or close to his company, he can find the appropriate workshops. We have established a reference in each interregional direction, for a much more fluid contact. We have also developed an IPRO 360 ° digital platform, allowing companies to know about 600 prison workshops and all the possibilities of implementation. In addition, every time we build a prison – we have a number of photographs here – we also think of prison based on work and sufficient space to create the workshops that will allow inmates to work. My goal is to return to a large majority of inmates working, as we know that this is the best way to combat recidivism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u232	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u233	I had planned to ask you, in my turn, about the overcrowding in prisons, which has already been the subject of numerous interventions. I would like to reiterate what my colleague Elsa Faucillon has said in her speech. I could also have mentioned the care – what was done by Laurence Dumont before me –, the criminal policy, or this very old prisoner who was released, having spent thirty-seven years in prison, on which I have already asked you. I could also have talked about the meaning and nature of the sentence. I would be happy to ask you about many issues, but my question is one that has not yet been addressed. Prison often hurts women and men who are there, instead of allowing them to amend themselves. I know that staff are very attached to accompanying them, trying to help them repair themselves and get back on track. Some artists also often come to prisons and I want to know your feeling about the possible development of what is being done in this area – I am thinking of theatre directors, Julie Brochen, Joël Pommerat...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u234	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u235	[[Mr. Gérard Leseul applauds]] ... or others, who work with inmates, sometimes facing financial difficulties. How can this type of action be scaled up to make art and creative gesture accessible to prisoners in all their dimensions? What policy are you likely to deploy in this regard?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u236	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u237	I will answer you with a great deal of sincerity: what I regret most is that I have not been more concerned with the issue of culture in prison, because I believe that where culture progresses, violence recedes. I couldn't do more, because of the covid. A lot is done, of course. I recently received a painter, who makes frescoes involving the detainees. The theatre in prison has existed and will have to continue: the magnificent film performed by Kad Merad – a popular success – shows how important this is. We are launching joint initiatives with the Louvre Museum and the MUCEM in Marseille. This subject is, in my view, extremely important, but the pandemic has slowed us down considerably. She cut our wings off. Yet it is essential that culture be in prisons, because it allows both an escape – it is an open door, if I may allow this expression, as regards detention – and an introspection, a real reflection. I therefore regret that she is no more present. In this regard, I have a number of projects – we will discuss them again – with Roselyne Bachelot, who is also very committed to ensuring that culture is not absent from prison. I am touched by what you have just said, Mr. Member.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u238	Mrs Françoise Ballet-Blu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u239	As we have seen during the various hearings, if there is a consensus on prison issues, it is very much about the idea that, in order to allow convicts to maintain a link with society – and thus prevent recidivism – they must find dignity, sometimes lost in difficult lives. What can we offer them better than the opportunity to train, acquire skills and work? This is also the purpose of the third axis of the law on confidence in the judicial institution, promulgated on 22 December: to restore meaning to the penalty by creating a contract of employment for the detainees, in order to promote their professional integration on the way out. In this regard, the work of ATIGIP, which is a key determinant of the prevention of recidivism, should be commended. You should also welcome the creation of the website www.work-prison.f r, which you could see the considerable success, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, when you introduced it last summer to the leaders gathered at the summer university.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u240	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u241	However, we can imagine – and perhaps even understand, to some extent – that for an entrepreneur, the idea of using the skills of a former inmate is not self-evident. However, the stakes are significant and the figures could be better, since in 2000, 50% of inmates were working, compared to 31% today. The problem is the same with vocational training, of which only 13% of prisoners currently benefit, while they were 35% fifteen years ago, I am thinking in particular of the Île-de-France region, with 3% of beneficiaries, or in Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes – this is one of the competences of the regions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Nevertheless, reintegration through professional activity works fully in some institutions, more than in others. The prison in Poitiers-Vivonne, very close to my constituency, even plans to open workshops adapted to prisoners with disabilities. Can you tell us, Mr. Keeper of the Seals, which explains these disparities, and tell us what you think would be able to remedy them?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u242	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u243	The website www.work-prison.fr exploded when I spoke about it at the MEDEF Summer University. I saw a lot of people connecting, and then meaning, with some desperate gestures, that it didn't work at all. In fact, it was such a success that, very quickly, we were overwhelmed. Disparities depend, of course, first on the geographical location of the prison: the activity must be able to be transferred within the prison. Secondly, some establishments are old-fashioned and cannot accommodate the work, because this requires special adjustments. As I said, when we build new prisons, we build workspaces, because I really want to get work back to prison, that was the meaning of my bill. Work is an effort, but it is not the only one: learning is also an effort; detoxification is also an effort; to cultivate, for some disadvantaged people, it is also an effort. All these combined elements make it possible to better combat recidivism. With the Penitentiary Service, we can send you the map we have drawn up. You will understand that some establishments are less well off than others from a geographical point of view. It is precisely to make up for this difference that we have drawn up this mapping so that the work is better distributed in the various prisons. Even though there have been a number of differences, you are absolutely right to stress this, in the future we will be very anxious to ensure that every prison can receive employers who offer work. It's better than offshoring.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u244	Mrs Camille Galliard-Minier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u245	I will return once again to our debate on the problem of prison overcrowding, which has already been mentioned by all. At the end of 2020, the prison density rate was historically low at 103.4%. The ideal of 100 per cent was almost achieved, i.e. one prison place per prisoner. Talking about the ideal when referring to prisons could be considered bold by some, but I insist: a normal prison density is a factor of appeasement in detention, which improves the working conditions of prison officers, ensures decent conditions of detention and allows for regular follow-up of each inmate, guaranteeing a successful integration into the exit. To date, the rate has been 115.7 per cent, or 69,812 prisoners for 69,940 places in prison. This issue is at the centre of the report just issued by the commission of inquiry into the malfunctions and shortcomings of French prison policy. The rapporteur, our colleague Caroline Abadie, stressed that while the construction of new places in prison – again mentioned this evening – is a first lever to combat this phenomenon, the implementation of a criminal policy that reduces incarceration is another. Prison regulation, in particular through increased alternative measures to detention, could be an effective and relevant tool for criminal policy. Furthermore, proposal No. 21 of the report calls for "the systematization and sanctification of the mechanisms of exchange between the prison administration and the courts in order to better regulate incarceration". This is for example the case in Isère, where an agreement was signed in October 2020 between the president of the judicial court in Grenoble, the public prosecutor, the director of the prison in Grenoble-Varces and the functional director of the SPIP of Isère. The Convention provides, inter alia, for the weekly information of judges on the occupancy rate of the prison, the use of the remand warrant, the increased identification of detainees who may be subject to early release, and the acceleration of requests for transfers or placement in institutions for sentences. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr. Keeper of the Seals, can you tell us what means could be used so that the Iserois example can develop throughout the territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u246	It is Mr. Keeper of the Seals who has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u247	Perhaps I am going to surprise you, but the director of the prison administration writes regularly to the heads of the courts, explaining the situation of the overpopulation of the criminal population in their jurisdiction. As you can imagine, magistrates are totally independent – that's very good. But I think this dialogue is important because within the ministry there are no magistrates on the one hand and the management of the prison administration on the other. In essence, therefore, it is normal for the management of the prison administration to speak to the heads of courts and tribunals. I am very committed to this dialogue, which also exists in your region. When there are a number of mattresses on the floor – we haven't talked about it yet tonight or not – of course, we are pursuing a transfer policy to try to lighten the most overloaded prisons. But the director of the prison administration writes to draw the attention of the magistrates to the situation. I suggest because you know that I can only take general circulars and not individual directives. The LPJ of March 2019, which I call the law block penalty, partially settles the issue. We will end with an optimistic note: ab initio developments have increased. At the beginning, a number of unlawful sentences were handed down, leading to the law's impossibility of incarceration. These devices have been rectified, of course we have been talking and doing the right thing so that it does not happen again. [[Caroline Abadie applauds]] The question remains: yes, I think it is normal for the prison administration to inform our magistrates of the situation in our prisons. On the other hand, an inmate who believes that he is in unworthy conditions of detention can appeal – on the merits, it is a bit the same mechanism. It's an important alert point. I believe that these essential provisions are the result of texts voted unanimously. We are not in abstraction, but in a real situation that must be taken into account. I find this initiative excellent, but we are already applying these devices a little bit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u248	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-01-O1143.u249	Next meeting, at 3 p.m.: Debate on the evolution of mental health in the context of a health crisis and the responses that are provided by our public policies; Debate on the report of the Social Affairs Committee on the evaluation of the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future; Questions on non-treatment areas. The meeting is adjourned.
