ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-23-O1168.u1	Mr. President of Ukraine, Mr. Speaker of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and senators, my dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the diplomatic corps, the moment is solemn, the unprecedented circumstances. For the first time in our parliamentary history, we welcome the president of a country at war, from a country to the besieged capital, on which the strikes are repeating intensity at this very moment. For the inadmissible is happening: the war in Europe, at the gates of the European Union; the war in Ukraine. Your people, Mr. President of Ukraine, force admiration. While he is the target of an aggression that nothing can justify, while he is the victim of an appetite for territorial conquest that makes all the rules of the international community break out, while he is the prey of the murderous madness of the Russian authorities, the Ukrainian people are fighting. Ukrainians, both civilian and military, resisted heroism to defend the sovereignty of their country and their freedom, in the eyes of Europe and the world. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to whom I join the members of the Paris Council, to greet and listen to us, to rise and applaud, in order to pay tribute to the courage of the Ukrainian people and of yourself, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, time is not just emotional. He's first and foremost in action. You will tell us in a moment, Mr President of Ukraine, what you expect from our country, France. Allow me to thank you for making the choice, in full turmoil, to address you to the parliaments of the great democracies and in particular to the French Parliament, to convey the testimony of Ukraine and your expectations. Do not doubt our support for today and for the future. Your respect for the parliamentary institution distinguishes your country from its opponents. It makes sense: in its struggle, Ukraine also defends our values, those of democracy, humanism, freedom and European civilization. Yes, because Ukraine belongs to the European family. [[Applause on all benches]] I shall now give the floor to President Ferrand, who will take the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-23-O1168.u2	[[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] Mr.President of Ukraine, Mr.President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and senators, ladies and gentlemen of the diplomatic corps, it is an honour for us to welcome you to the National Assembly. We know your attachment to France, where you made your first official trip abroad after your election as President of Ukraine. As early as 2019, you had engaged in a fruitful dialogue with France. I would also like to welcome the presence of the Ukrainian Ambassador to France, Mr Vadym Omelchenko. For nearly a month now, Ukrainians have been fighting and heroically resisting Russian military aggression. Be sure, Mr President, of the solidarity and full mobilization of national representation. We will continue to ensure that every effort is made to assist you, whether through restrictive measures against the aggressor or through the provision of humanitarian support to both Ukrainians and refugees. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] We have all seen these shocking, upsetting images of Ukrainian cities bombed and besieged. France condemns these indiscriminate acts and bombings against civilian populations. This must stop immediately, and we call on Russia to comply with international humanitarian law. In these tragic circumstances, the Ukrainian people show admirable resistance. I would like to commend his courage and that of the Ukrainian authorities. Know that we remain by your side. Mr President of Ukraine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-23-O1168.u3	Thank you. It is a great honour for me, for Ukraine and for our people. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable senators, ladies and gentlemen, elected from Paris, the French people, I am grateful for the honour of speaking to you today. I'm sure you know very well what's going on in Ukraine; You know why this happens and you know who is guilty – including those who hide their heads in the sand and try to find money in Russia. I turn to you, who are honest, rational and bold people, to ask you a question: how can we stop this war? Like establishing peace in Ukraine? Most of the answers are in your hands, in our hands. On 9 March, Russian air bombs were thrown at the children's hospital and a maternity hospital in our city of Marioupol, a peaceful city in southern Ukraine. Yes, it was a completely peaceful city until the arrival of Russian troops, who subjected it to a brutal, medieval siege, and began to kill people. In this motherhood, on which the Russians threw bombs, there were women who were preparing to give birth. Most of them survived, but some were seriously injured: a woman saw her foot, which was fractured, be amputated; Another had a fractured pelvis and her baby died before birth. While we were trying to save her, she asked the doctors to let her die, not to help her: she saw no reason to stay alive. She's dead. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members rise and observe a minute of silence]] In Ukraine, in Europe, in 2022, for hundreds of millions of people, it was unthinkable that the world could be destroyed. I ask you to observe a minute of silence in honour and memory of the thousands of Ukrainians who were killed as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukrainian territory. Thank you. After weeks of Russian invasion, Marioupol and other Ukrainian cities struck by the occupier recall the ruins of Verdun. As in the photos of the First World War, which everyone had the opportunity to see, the Russian army does not distinguish the objects it targets. It destroys everything: residential areas, hospitals, schools, universities; everything. She burns food and medicine warehouses: she burns everything. It does not take into account the concept of war crime or the obligations related to international conventions. She brought terror to Ukrainian soil, and every one of you is aware of it. You have all the information, because all the facts are available: the women raped by the Russian military in the temporarily occupied areas, the refugees they kill on the roads, the journalists they also kill while knowing that they are journalists, not to mention the elderly who survived the holocaust and are now forced to flee Russian strikes in bomb shelters. What is happening in Ukraine, Europe has not seen it in eighty years. Desperate people beg to die. In 2019, when I became president, there was already a negotiating framework with the Russian Federation: the Normandy format. He was to put an end to the war in Donbass, east of Ukraine, which unfortunately has lasted for eight years. Four states participated in the Normandy format – Ukraine, Russia, Germany and France – but they represented the whole world, they expressed all the positions of countries around the world. Some supported this process while others tried to delay it, wanting to disrupt it. But it seemed important that such a framework should continue to exist. In 2019, the negotiations produced results – we managed to free captives and negotiate certain decisions – which was a breath of fresh air or a glimmer of hope, the hope that conversations with Russia could be constructive, that Russia's leaders could be convinced by our words, that Moscow could choose peace. But the 24th of February 2022 arrived. This day has erased all the efforts made; it has broken the very concept of dialogue and the European experience of relations with Russia; He has influenced the destiny of European history. All this was bombed by Russian troops, crushed by Russian artillery and burned by Russian missile fire. Having been unable to find the truth in the offices, we are obliged to look for it on the battlefield. So, what's left of us? Our values, our unity and our determination to defend our freedom, our common freedom, that of Paris and Kiev, Berlin and Warsaw, Madrid and Rome, Brussels and Bratislava. Fresh air puffs won't help us. We must act together, put pressure together on Russia to encourage it to seek peace.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-23-O1168.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the French people, on 24 February, the Ukrainian people united. Now we have neither right nor left, we no longer distinguish between the representatives of power and those of opposition coalitions; We are thinking only of establishing peace to protect our country. We are grateful to France for its help and for the efforts of President Emmanuel Macron, who has shown real leadership. We communicate constantly with him and coordinate our actions. Ukrainians see that France appreciates and protects the truth. You know what freedom, equality and fraternity are. Each of these notions is important to you: I feel it and the Ukrainians feel it too. We expect from France, from your leadership, that you will lead Russia to seek peace, to put an end to this war against freedom, equality and fraternity, against everything that has made Europe united, free and diverse. We expect from France, from your leadership, the restoration of the territorial integrity of Ukraine. We can do it together. If some of you doubt it, your people are sure, like all the other peoples of Europe. Under the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, a mature decision will be taken in favour of Ukraine's accession to the European Union. It will be a historic decision, taken at a historic moment, as was always the case in the history of the French people. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups as well as some non-attached Members]] Ladies and gentlemen, the French people, tomorrow it will be a month for the Ukrainians to fight for their lives and their freedom, for our army to be heroically opposed to the Russian forces, even though they are superior. We need even more help and support. For freedom not to lose, it must be well armed. Tanks, anti-tank weapons, combat planes, air defence: we need them and you can help us. For freedom not to be lost, the world must also support it with sanctions against the aggressor. Every week we have to take a new package of sanctions. French companies must leave the Russian market: Renault, Auchan, Leroy Merlin and all other groups must stop being sponsors of the Russian war machine. They must stop financing the murder of women and children, or rape. Everyone has to remember that values go before profits. We must already think about the future, the way we are going to live after the war. We need strong guarantees to make security unshakable and wars impossible in this world. Let us create a new system of guarantees and security, in which France will play a leading role, so that no one has to mourn death, so that people can live their lives and die not under bombs, in the midst of a war, but when their time has come, in dignity. Everyone must live with respect, and we must be able to say "good-bye" to him, as France told Jean-Paul Belmondo. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] Thank you, France! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-23-O1168.u5	Mr President, on behalf of the national representative, I thank you for having addressed you to the parliamentarians and the French people. The meeting is adjourned.
