ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law by Mrs Frédérique Dumas and others to guarantee the ethical respect of organ donation by our non-European partners (No 3316, 4037).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u2	I call the articles of the bill in the text that was originally before the House, since the committee did not adopt a text. On Amendment No 1, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group and the Libertés et territoires group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. On Amendment No 13, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group and the Libertés et territoires group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor to support Amendment No. 1, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u3	I would like to make clear what happened and what was said this morning before we suspended our work. Madam rapporteur, you have asked me directly about what you call political manoeuvres. Without repeating everything we have said in committee, I invite you to remind you of our discussions. You suggest that the Republic on the move group would be complacent to Beijing. But there is no ambiguity in our attitude, as the statement made during the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of the systematic political violence and of the crimes against humanity currently committed by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs, by the Members on the various benches of this House, and in particular by the speaker of the La République group on the move. All hailed the work you have done. We therefore share some of your findings. However, as I announced in the general discussion, we will not support this bill, for the simple reason that it does not afford itself the means of its ambitions. To repeat to the envious that it will prevent the crimes that it denounces as you affirm in the explanatory memorandum does not make it more effective. I have already explained this to you when we held this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. In presenting the text this morning, you said that we should not make large, outrageous statements that are not followed by action. However, that is what this bill itself would lead us to, it is thought fatally by comparing the explanatory statement with the actions it allows. Your statements are closer to a political approach than the amendments that I will defend. They are intended to prevent damage caused by the adoption of the bill not to the relations between China and France but to the cooperation that may exist between French and foreign health institutions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] These are the reasons why the Group of the European People's Party has tabled Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u4	Mrs Frédérique Dumas, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u5	I am sorry to remind you that it was you who opened your speech, as well as the explanatory memorandum to Amendment No 1, saying that I was aiming at a political objective. So you see me having to answer to you politically too, but you have chosen to do so. Secondly, I would like to remind you of your statements during the examination in the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the draft law authorizing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Organs, known as the Compostela Convention. At that time, there was no question that the bill we are currently debating should be placed on the agenda on the initiative of the Freedom and Territory Group, since we had to include in it the motion for a resolution condemning crimes against the Uighurs. The bill authorizing the ratification of the Compostela Convention was to be voted on, and the motion for a resolution was to follow. I am pleased to acknowledge that you have accompanied this motion for a resolution. As the motion for a resolution has been withdrawn from the agenda of the Liberties and Territories Group for political reasons and not on a legal basis, as it is easy to see, we have included this bill. Contrary to what you say, the explanatory memorandum is not based on statements of intent; it merely finds facts. I tried to open the eyes of those who don't know the subject. The explanatory memorandum therefore does not consist of political statements. On November 23, 2021, when the bill authorizing the ratification of the Compostela Convention was being considered in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when you did not know that the bill we are debating at this time would be considered, you probably got a little carried away. You said about its consideration in the Committee on Social Affairs on 31 March 2021: "I have, and I am sorry, otherwise contributed to [the] torpedo, at least called upon to reject it, because I felt that our arsenal should be completed by [the ratification of the Compostela Convention]" – we will return to this convention. [[Murmures on the benches of the LaREM group]] You added: "We probably have efforts to make, but if we agree to take a further step by passing this ratification bill, then we can think about the use of other levers that make it possible to assert France's visceral respect for the human body, its elements and its products – because that is what this is all about. The bill authorizing the ratification of the Compostela Convention was passed at first reading. It is therefore time to activate new levers to see respected the principles to which you have a "visceral" attachment. I understand that cooperation is above this principle of ethical sovereignty, which is our identity! [[Mr. Jean François Mbaye protested]] Mr. Mbaye, you also stated on that day that my "proposals [were], in their philosophy, entirely legitimate" – you did not then set up a trial of intent. You said: "In the field of medical cooperation and scientific research, the question is whether everyone should be punished or only the target. In this area, our country is attentive to the protocols signed with certain foreign scientific entities. Rather, as far as transplants are concerned, it is a question of identifying the diversion which can be made of perfectly legitimate cooperation. You have therefore abandoned the business of identifying the misappropriations you mentioned in this debate in committee. Mrs Ramlati Ali, rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the bill authorizing the ratification of the Compostela Convention, said: "I understand the concerns expressed by Frédérique Dumas, who has worked extensively on the subject. [...] The hearings that I conducted allowed me to verify that there was a satisfactory legal framework, of which it is essential to ensure respect. [...] According to the people we auditioned, France has a central role to play in this area. » Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, added: "All the groups have shown the will not only to vote in favour of the ratification of this Convention, but also to go further. Mr. Mbaye, the bill we are looking at is just about going further! It is true that you did not think you had to look at this text in this Parliament. However, the bill is exactly what you said when you said it was necessary to identify "misappropriation." Transparency must be demanded, and if it is not obtained, certain conventions must be prevented from being concluded. I will give you further examples when you present the other deletion amendments. [[Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Secondly, in the explanatory memorandum to Amendment No 1, you state: "No channel of organ trafficking involving French nationals in China has been listed to date. "There is no transplant tourism from France to China," as established by the Agency for Biomedicine, and therefore my proposed law would be "disconnected" from its objectives. Did you read it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u6	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u7	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] [[Same movements]] The Biomedicine Agency has indeed established all this, but I have never said otherwise. My bill has absolutely no purpose for it. I do not understand why you include in your explanatory statement something that has nothing to do with my bill: I am not talking to you about the channels in which French people would be involved, I am not talking to you about French people who would go to China, I am saying that we should not, through our bilateral agreements, make us indirectly complicit in what is happening in China. I am therefore against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u8	I call on the Secretary of State for Children and Families to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u9	In line with its opening statement on this text, the Government is issuing an opinion in favour of Amendment No. 1 to delete Article 1. We share the view that there are forced transplants and illegal international trafficking. However, we do not believe that the bill responds effectively to these problems. We believe, as I said this morning, that the existing international legal framework, currently being ratified in our country, offers the necessary tools to combat such criminal practices. I would add that the French law already provides that international cooperation agreements can be signed by health institutions only in compliance with the international commitments undertaken by the French State, in this case the Compostela Convention which I remind you that the bill authorizing its ratification will be examined in the Senate on February 14. The Santiago de Compostela Convention complements the legal arsenal that France already subscribes to. This is a commitment that health institutions must respect in their policy of international cooperation. As I said to you this morning, its ratification will be an opportunity to remind the health institutions concerned of these challenges and responsibilities: it is their responsibility to know the partner with whom they wish to cooperate and to ensure the legitimacy and sincerity of the mutual commitments that will be made in the framework of this cooperation. No French operator will sign a convention that violates France's ethical principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u10	Well, that's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u11	Putting in place an a priori check of compliance with the principles by the partner, putting this obligation of result on the French health institution, that is something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u12	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u13	I hear you abound in my opinion. But what you're proposing is different from what I just mentioned. The control you are considering would require an investigative and inspection power that neither institutions, universities, nor the National Ethics Advisory Committee (NEAC), as you anticipate, nor the Biomedicine Agency, have. Very concretely, the device you are planning is not operating.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u14	That's crazy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u15	Under international law, there is currently no guarantee of the conduct of a foreign partner subject to another jurisdiction. If we want to go further as you wish, a joint joint inspection mechanism should be put in place. But before we get there, there is still a long way to go. Thus, the existing international legal framework provides the means to combat such criminal practices. Its ratification will be an opportunity to remind all the institutions concerned of their obligations to which the vast majority of them already subscribe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u16	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u17	We are at an important moment, because if the deletion amendment is voted, it will empty this bill of its substance and put an end to the debate. I heard the Secretary of State say that international conventions would be improved by the bill authorizing the ratification of the Compostela Convention, which is currently on a parliamentary shuttle. However, it may be agreed that these international conventions are ineffective in combating the misuse of organ donation. This bill simply lays down conditions for the conclusion of partnerships between French and non-European establishments in the field of organ transplantation. As we have said, we find it effective from the point of view of the precautionary principle, regardless of the reality and extent of this issue of transplants through illicitly obtained organs, and whatever is thought of the fact that this bill targets China in particular – because we believe that other countries are involved, but we understand that in China the phenomenon is institutionalized. I therefore do not understand the attitude of our colleagues in the running Republic Group, especially since it appears to be totally contradictory to the attitude they adopted in the discussion of a recent motion for a resolution. At the time, we were told that it was essential to vote on it, and that the Uighurs, who are clearly victims of crimes against humanity, were subjected to the fourth genocide recognized by the United Nations. That should have consequences for any state! I do not imagine that, in the 1930s, a resolution against the genocide led by Berlin could be voted here without drawing any conclusions! You therefore voted a resolution condemning the genocide of the Uighurs while explaining that it was urgent not to act...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u18	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u19	... and that the responsibility of a particular State should not even be pointed out. This bill proposes strict application of the precautionary principle, and our colleagues On the move, we are told that this is not entirely true, and ask for the deletion of all the articles one after the other. [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] There is a contradiction here, and I could even – if I was a teaser, and if the subject was more appropriate – speak of demagogy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u20	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u21	In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the rapporteur wrote to you: "In view of the absence of sanctions from the European institutions to combat these crimes, it is necessary to amend French domestic law in order to prevent French public and private health institutions from becoming complicit in human rights violations in organ transplantation. "It is therefore the cooperation contracts signed between French and Chinese health institutions that must be targeted. » [[The rapporteur protested]] So that's what you're saying! [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The mechanism that you propose, based on a precautionary principle and which would target any form of cooperation with Chinese institutions, would be inoperative. To move forward on vigilance with regard to our own ethical rules on transplantation, I think we will all agree. But we must choose an effective lever.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u22	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u23	[[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] I had asked the Government in November 2019, with a written question, about the issue of organ transplantation obtained under duress. To date, I have not received any response on the measures taken, including prevention and awareness-raising. This bill is therefore absolutely necessary! We are facing a country that does not have the same standards, the same standards as we do. There is no institution in China that shares our ethical values, our concern for the protection of human dignity and human rights. We must therefore strengthen our arrangements and secure our conventions, both ethically and legally. You are talking about the hierarchy of standards, but we also know that in France we regularly overtranspose international standards: in terms of ethics and human dignity, we must not hesitate to legislate on forced organ removals in China. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] We have voted for a motion for a resolution condemning the genocide of Uighur Muslim populations, but we must not forget the people of Tibet, nor the members of the Falun Gong community, who also sound the alarm. We cannot support our research organizations or our experts in nephrology or transplantation as guarantors of world-wide trafficking, which France serves as a noun. We are, whether we like it or not, committed to this story! [[Applause on the SOC and LT benches]] Cooperation implies a principle of reciprocity: this means that we must share the same values.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u24	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u25	And our values are those of respect for dignity and human life! So we can't turn our heads. We can't let that happen. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LR, Agir ens and LT groups. – Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert also applauds]] Can we suppress one life to save another? I don't think so. I adhere to the principle "that saves a life saves humanity". We propose, with this bill, a principle of humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u26	I put to the vote Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u27	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 64 Number of votes cast 64 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 36 Against 28
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u28	It's a shame! What a pity for France!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u29	But we have the names!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u30	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u31	Needless to say, I regret the vote that has just taken place! I don't know if my amendment still makes sense...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u32	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u33	...but I'm still going to defend him. Despite an increasing trend in transplants in France, advances in transplant medicine have led to a shortage of available organs, leading to new safety and quality challenges. For information purposes, the data for France submitted by the Agency for Biomedicine indicated in 2019 that 8576 new entries were made on the waiting list for 5901 transplants. In these circumstances, it can be understood that the temptation to seek an organ abroad is sometimes great. This requires us to make it clear which countries do not offer sufficient guarantees for transplantation: whether they do so in a fully conscious way or not, the French should not be tempted to go looking for organs in countries that do not respect the same ethical rules and standards as we do. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that 5% to 10% of transplants in the world result from organ trafficking, which represents about 15,000 transplants per year – and we're at the bottom of the range. My amendment therefore proposes to establish by decree "the list of countries in which the carrying out of an organ transplant does not trigger the reimbursement of post-operative medical follow-up in France". This would have two merits: to draw the attention of the French to the unsafe countries and to inform them of the origin of the organs they might receive; inform them of the risks they would face when travelling to these countries, since medical reports point out that tourists transplanted to countries that do not provide sufficient guarantees may themselves be exploited and suffer serious consequences for their health. Abuse and exploitation related to organ transplants are documented, and trafficking is mostly based on mafia networks, which target particularly vulnerable people. Let us not give in to these very dark practices, and let us give ourselves the means to inform our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u34	On Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and the same, I have a request for a public vote before the working Republic and Libertés et territoires groups. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. What is the committee's opinion on Amendment No 10?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u35	Favourable opinion. We could even go further than what we are proposing today: China is the second largest export market for French companies. Sanofi, for example, exports anti-rejection medicines to China. Some tests are done on vaccines. We should look at what our companies in China are doing, and ask if they are not indirectly complicit in certain facts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u36	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u37	Unfavorable opinion. France is committed against organ trafficking, of course; This phenomenon is closely monitored at both the national and Council of Europe levels. It is in order to protect our country from possible abuses that Parliament entrusted, I reminded you this morning, to the Agency for Biomedicine the task of conducting a biennial survey of dialysis and transplant centres in order to ascertain the cases of transplants carried out abroad. The report will soon be made public; I gave the number this morning: in 2019, it involved five people, only one of these transplants involving a French resident in China. The figure is therefore very low. In order to strengthen our commitment, we have embarked on the process of ratification of the Santiago de Compostela Convention, which criminalizes the illegal removal of living or deceased donor organs, and enshrines at European level, and even beyond, the principles that we defend and frame our arrangements. Finally, I would point out that these principles are already enshrined in French law, and already apply to health institutions, particularly when they sign framework agreements with foreign institutions. As far as the amendment is concerned, setting a list of countries, as you suggest, would not provide any additional guarantees. This would also run counter to the principle to which we are all committed of equal access to care for all.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u38	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u39	The principle of equal access to care for all, Secretary of State, is already being breached if it is to seek organs unlawfully collected from persons who have not consented to it, or against money... You have given us figures, but it is well known – it is the Agency for Biomedicine that says so – that there are French people on the waiting lists for transplants, and then they disappear, when they are not dead. These people have benefited from a transplant, but not in our country. We have to ask ourselves questions! It's not about a witch hunt, of course. But establishing a list of unsafe countries, countries that do not respect our ethical rules on organ transplantation, and making it available to our citizens, would make them aware of the risk they are taking for themselves, but also that they are taking for the citizens of those countries.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u40	I have before me two deletion amendments, Nos 2 and 14. Amendment No 2 by Mr Jean François Mbaye is being defended. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u41	In section 1, I had tabled a comprehensive drafting amendment to clarify and simplify the provisions of the bill. It was accompanied by a series of amendments to delete the articles. To the extent that Article 1 has been deleted, it goes without saying that I withdraw these deletion amendments. Mr. Hammouche referred to a written question he asked. Jean Lassalle, a member of the Freedom and Territory group, also did so: he was told that the People's Republic of China had indeed done a reform, since in 2015 it had banned the removal of organs from executed prisoners, and that "the stakes for China now remain the full implementation of the law". This is the position of Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian: he acknowledges that the law is not being applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u42	On the other hand, you argue that my bill is inoperative, but it is not: it is the international commitments that you claim to be, as well as the Santiago de Compostela Convention, on which I also wish to return. With regard to international commitments, the People's Republic of China did not recognize the Rome Statute and therefore the International Criminal Court. In addition, while China has ratified the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, it also does not recognize the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice – which was a problem for us when we considered the motion for a resolution on the condemnation of crimes committed against the Uighurs. In this regard, we know that China can count on a great deal of support in the Security Council and the United Nations General Assembly. With regard to the Santiago de Compostela Convention, France was indeed one of the 26 signatory countries, but not of the 13 States that had ratified it – Spain had even amended its domestic law for that purpose. I would add that only four countries have made reservations to this convention. This is the case for Russia, which wants to make it more binding, but above all for France, which is the most critical country. The Convention provides that each party shall take the necessary measures to ensure that prosecution is not subject to conditions. In order to avoid an incompatibility with our criminal law, which prohibits double criminality, France has declared that it will exercise its jurisdiction only on condition that the acts are also punished by the legislation of the country in which they were committed and that they have given rise either to a complaint by the victim or his successors or to an official denunciation by the authorities of the country in question. You can imagine that it will not be possible to file a complaint in a country like China and therefore that the reservation made by France makes its commitment completely ineffective – contrary to what you support. However, we could, like Spain, have amended our domestic law before signing the Convention. The Oviedo Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine was supplemented by four additional protocols on human cloning, organ and tissue transplantation, genetic testing for medical purposes and biomedical research. France has signed the first three protocols, but has not ratified them, and has not even signed the fourth, confirming that our country's international commitments are in no way working. Therefore, you cannot oppose the alleged inefficiency of my bill to international commitments that are not. Moreover, you keep saying that we call on the countries with which we sign bilateral conventions to respect international ethical principles. But, in fact, writing it is enough for you, since you recognize that we cannot verify it and that being more demanding would prevent us from concluding agreements. Be aware of the lack of consistency in your approach! It is as if we were entering into a contract, that it was not respected by the other party, but that we were not terminating it, because we cannot formally verify it. Thus, I repeat, the Santiago de Compostela Convention which you claim to be is absolutely not operational.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u43	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u44	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u45	I put Amendment No. 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u46	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 63 Number of votes cast 63 Absolute majority 32 For adoption 38 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u47	Mr Jean François Mbaye's amendment No 3 to delete Article 3 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u48	I would like to stress that, contrary to what you are saying, my bill may very well be working, provided that you wish to do so. Indeed, Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, spends a significant part of his time, as do many Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, putting forward the duty of vigilance. It is about paying attention to what is being done by our foreign partners in certain areas, such as forced labour. Mr Le Drian has thus affirmed, in all international forums, that our multinationals have a duty of vigilance and that they must ensure that they do not benefit from the forced labour that is taking place in the Xinjiang region. In the same way, following the Orpea scandal, Brigitte Bourguignon, the deputy minister responsible for autonomy, said that we have an imperative duty of vigilance with regard to EHPADs and that it is necessary to impose on companies in this sector the verification of compliance with the objectives of their mission, in this case care and well-contracting, by an independent third-party body. Thus, either the duty of vigilance is only a word not followed by action, or it is a real duty of caution, which is to ask for attention to be paid to what is happening in the countries with which we work. In the name of which the Government would therefore allow itself to give lessons to multinationals and private companies, telling them to pay attention, or even to be prohibited from working with certain countries, when it does not decide on bilateral cooperation involving the State because, if necessary, research institutions could no longer work and because we cannot verify the observance of ethical principles by third countries, we could no longer conclude conventions. So you can see that we are facing a major problem. I repeat, either you feel that the duty of vigilance is not important, either for multinationals or for anyone else, or you feel that it is and that it must apply both to multinationals and to the French State.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u49	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u50	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u51	I put Amendment No. 3 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u52	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 61 Number of votes cast 61 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 38 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u53	Amendment No 4 by Mr Jean François Mbaye is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u54	This time I will try to provide you with some proof of what is happening in France, because if we cannot actually check how things work abroad, we can make sure that we act differently in our country. I have many examples, but I will present only a few. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] The University of Lorraine, for example, which is based in Nancy, maintains cooperation in the field of health and the environment with China. The university website states: "There is general agreement that the university agreement between Lorraine and China is in good shape, because it is rooted in what could be described as a traditional partnership. I'll give you the details, but the university then says that "things are accelerating since, for the past ten years, health in China has been growing exponentially, in particular due to technological developments and financing by Chinese GAFAs." We therefore learn in passing that it is the Chinese digital giants who finance the cooperation agreements. And, even better, the University of Lorraine concludes by recognizing that "some subjects still need to be developed, such as ethics, relations with patients and hospital organizations". We still have to do it! This is what is written black and white in an official university communication! In the same way, I come back to the National Academy of Medicine, which I quoted earlier. Dr. Zheng Shu-Sen, whom I told you about, a specialist in liver transplants for twenty years, saw his work removed from international journals, because he did not give the origin of transplanted organs – initially they were taken from Falun Gong practitioners – or evidence of patient consent. However, he was a foreign correspondent of the National Academy of Medicine. When I wrote to the Academy, the Academy assured me that I was not aware of this matter. I was told that a re-examination of the case had been carried out by the second division of the Academy "Surgery and Surgical Specialties" and by the International Affairs Committee. In a second stage, I was assured, the ethics committee, which I have referred to the independent members, high-level lawyers, will give an opinion, which will be forwarded to the board of directors, which will ultimately decide on the position of Professor Zheng Shu-Sen within the Academy. And, pending this decision, the Academy has indicated to me that I wish to freeze all relations with Professor Zheng Shu-Sen, promising to warn me of the follow-up given by the board of directors. Nine months later, no follow-up was given to this case and, as I was telling you, Professor Zheng Shu-Sen's name is still on the Academy website. That is what we are doing in terms of monitoring and evaluation! Everyone knows there's a problem with this doctor, but not the National Academy of Medicine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u55	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u56	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u57	I put Amendment No. 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u58	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 35 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u59	Amendment No 5 by Mr Jean François Mbaye is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u60	I would like to offer another example: that of the CHU – university hospital centre – in Poitiers, of which two nurses went to Nanchang hospital number 1. In that regard, Professor Jean Deslauriers, who had worked in a Chinese hospital, testified that in China hospitals received almost no financial assistance from the Government. "Each hospital must [establish] its costs and charge the costs to the patients," he says, adding that it has been difficult to adjust to this operation. Another source of irritation, for the professor, comes from the fact that Chinese surgeons receive a rather modest basic salary, leading them to resort to a performance-based bonus system. "The more you operate, the more money you make," explains Professor Deslauriers, who says that "red envelopes" are added to revenues. It is "a sum of money given to the surgeon by the family to make sure that it is he and not his assistant who will do the operation" – what Mr.Deslauriers never accepted, he says. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] The CHU in Bordeaux, through the Maison Sud Ouest France, cooperates with the Asia Heart Hospital in Wuhan. Every year, ten cardiologists from this hospital are trained by the University Hospital of Bordeaux, for about 90,000 euros per practitioner. "This project allows our Chinese partners to benefit from French medical excellence while increasing the resources of the CHU," says Bordeaux Hospital itself.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u61	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u62	In addition to what I said earlier, I will give a few points of reply to the last two statements made by the rapporteur, with regard to the Franco-Chinese framework agreements and cooperation agreements passed by certain establishments in our territory. Yes, university and medical cooperation between our two countries is developed: it contributes to the diplomatic influence of the excellence of French medical training – like other types of conventions that we have with other countries. I believe that we can also honour this. It should be noted that these framework agreements and conventions are most often international "cooperation actions", as provided for in Article L. 6134-1 of the Code of Public Health, which are transmitted to the Ministry of Solidarity and Health by the French health institutions concerned. They are mainly devoted to training activities, including medical students. These documents do not mention specific cooperation actions in the field of organ collection and transplantation. I would add that article L. 6134-1 of the Code de la santé publique requires French health institutions to respect, in their actions of international cooperation, the "international commitments undertaken by the French State". So, as I say again, the ratification of the Santiago de Compostela Convention will be an opportunity to remind these institutions of the need to include enhanced vigilance clauses in their framework agreements with foreign establishments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u63	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u64	The question before us is serious and I do not understand why you are trying to repeat what the texts say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u65	Because there are texts!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u66	... while I argue that they are not being applied. I have just given several concrete examples attesting to the fact that the main principles to which you refer are not respected – and I could present others. I repeat, it is as if you were entering into a contract with someone, that the person did not respect it, but told you that, as it was written that she would respect it, it is not a problem. This is a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u67	You cannot systematically oppose the principles and their respect; you cannot constantly brandish the Compostela Convention, while I have just explained to you that, because of the reservations it has made, France will dismiss anyone who has had a problem in China, who will have to file a complaint there. The problem is real! For example, the CHU in Grenoble – which is one of the few hospitals that responded to us because they are doing their job well – applies exactly the terms of our bill and promotes the precautionary principle. When he was proposed to enter into a convention with Hangzhou Hospital, this famous hospital that I told you about and which operates in connection with two detention camps in Xinjiang, he not only refused any collaboration on organ donations, but all collaboration, because he had known of problems. In other words, this hospital acted exactly as you were asked to! [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] You're talking about awareness-raising and vigilance clauses, but that's the very purpose of this bill. Of course, we have not defined the content of these clauses, because it is not for the House to do so, but we are asking for certain criteria to be included in them, for them to be genuinely applied and for them to be controlled in order, if necessary, to be able, as the CHU in Grenoble did, to refuse a convention in full conscience.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u68	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u69	In full awareness and in compliance with legal obligations!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u70	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u71	If the CHU of Grenoble acts as it did, it is because it is obliged!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u72	What about the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u73	But the others, consciously and in compliance with legal obligations, in the current state of law, will do the same if they are faced with the same difficulties, and they will take the same steps as those taken by the CHU in Grenoble.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u74	No! I gave you the opposite example!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u75	In the event of proven facts, all institutions that sign framework agreements with health facilities abroad are subject to ethical principles.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u76	But they don't!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u77	You gave us the example of an institution,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u78	One!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u79	...but the others felt that ethical principles were not being flouted! You lock yourself in circular reasoning...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u80	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u81	[[The rapporteur exclaims]] I repeat that the rule of law already requires hospitals to ensure that the partners with whom they contract respect ethical principles. And besides, according to your own demonstration, that's what the CHU of Grenoble did. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] In the current state of law, it is therefore possible, if not mandatory – this is the article I quoted earlier. The Compostela Convention reaffirms this obligation, and it will give us an opportunity to raise awareness and strengthen the obligations that must be included in framework agreements with foreign partners.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u82	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u83	It's completely stupid!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u84	No insults, please!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u85	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u86	Madam rapporteur, the example you are giving us shows that you implicitly recognise that there is a verification mechanism for scientific cooperation. It is established in strict compliance with our international commitments, thanks in particular to the work of senior defence and security officials.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u87	I put Amendment No. 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u88	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 59 Number of votes cast 59 Absolute majority 30 For adoption 37 Against 22
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u89	Amendment No 6 by Mr Jean François Mbaye is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u90	I assure you, this is the last amendment, but I will go to the end.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u91	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u92	[["No threats! » on a few benches of the LaREM group]] [[Mr Bruno Questel protested]] This will be discussed in ten years' time, when you remember the attitude you had today. For if history never repeats itself completely, it stutters; You have to be aware of that. You have kept repeating to me that the conventions were governed by certain principles but that the controls were impossible and that, as a result, the adoption of my bill would require an end to these cooperation agreements. You cannot at the same time oppose this argument, and tell me, on the other hand, that everything is fine and that there are checks! Either it is not possible to verify and so there are no cooperation conventions, or everything is fine, and we sign these conventions: it is one or the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u94	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u95	I put Amendment No. 6 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u96	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 37 Against 23
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u97	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been deleted or rejected, the bill is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u98	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u99	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u100	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr François-Michel Lambert and others to provide France with the necessary instruments to combat plastic pollution (No 4827, 4960).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u101	Mr François-Michel Lambert, rapporteur of the Committee on Sustainable Development and Regional Planning, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u102	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the commitment of all the staff of this noble house, which allows us to carry our projects and actions to the highest level, and in particular the administrators Olivia Sanson and Nicolas Dufrêne. As we approach the end of the legislature, we must remember that we are what we are through our collaborators. I thank those of my team and the Libertés et territoires group for the tremendous work they have been doing for several years, particularly on the issue of plastic pollution. The bill we are considering has been co-signed by thirty-four Members of Parliament, members of five parliamentary groups, which shows that the subject it is addressing is not partial but concerns us all. I thank them for their trust. What is the commonality between the deepest point of the ocean and the highest summit in the world? They both contain tiny pieces of plastic. Plastic represents the largest, most harmful and persistent fraction of marine pollution: 85% of all marine litter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u103	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u104	Over the past seventy years the plastic has infiltrated and penetrated every corner of the earth. It certainly has many advantages, whether it is found in life-saving medical devices or used for the long-term storage of foodstuffs. However, plastic products pollute our planet to an alarming degree. The toxic effects on marine life are catastrophic: this toxicity is transferred in particular throughout the food chain. [[Mr Jean Lassalle and Mr Bertrand Pancher applaud]] Plastic pollution also poses a risk to human beings. People inhale microplastics with air, ingest them through food and water. Microplastics were found in human lungs, liver, spleen and kidneys. It is also a climate problem. The more plastic we produce, the more fossil energy we consume and the more we aggravate the climate crisis, fuelling an infernal circle. The rapid growth of plastic production is already threatening the earth's natural systems, and this threat will only worsen. We just can't act like nothing is happening. Given the magnitude of the problem, there is an urgent need for commitments and action. Everything I have just said to you is the result of a United Nations report, which calls for urgent action by strengthening the governance of the fight against plastic pollution at all levels, improving our knowledge of plastic pollution and accelerating the mobilization of the necessary financial resources. Indeed, "the current policies do not meet the challenges and do not significantly reduce the volume of plastics placed on the market," the report notes. On the other hand, recent modelling shows that by 2040, on the assumption of a status quo, the amount of plastic in the oceans is expected to quadruple, and that current commitments by governments and businesses will only reduce the discharge of plastic waste at sea by 7%. Plastics policies are rare and generally address the prohibition or taxation of specific products rather than systemic change in the plastic economy. The range of current policies will not allow the necessary shift to zero the discharge of plastic waste at sea. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), which held its congress in Marseille in September 2021 – you were there, Madam Secretary of State for Biodiversity, during the ten days it lasted – also recalls the extreme urgency to act. The Director of the Global Marine and Polar Programme stated at the presentation of IUCN's October 2020 report: "Plastic pollution is a source of long-term damage to terrestrial and marine ecosystems and biodiversity. Not only for marine animals that may find themselves trapped or swallow plastic waste [...], but this contamination also releases chemicals [...] harmful to both ecosystems and human health into the environment. A particularly critical problem in a semi-closed sea like the Mediterranean. As this report makes clear, current and planned measures are not sufficient to reduce plastic releases and prevent these impacts." In a study recently signed by more than fourteen scientists in the journal Environmental Science and Technology, it is shown that, on the nine planetary limits, that of environmental pollutants, including plastic, have just been crossed. The authors of the study point to the importance of moving towards a massive circular economy; In particular, they call for a ceiling for the production and release of chemicals. The report of the Office parlementaire d'évaluation des choix scientifiques et technologiques (OPECST) by our colleagues Philippe Bolo, Member of Parliament, and Angèle Préville, Senator, published on December 14, 2020, has a worrying title: "Plastic pollution: a time bomb? " He notes the frightening observation of an exponential invasion of plastic and proposes to think differently the fight against plastics, too focused on recycling in the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, known as AGEC law. The Tara Ocean Foundation recalls, in its latest publication: "The circular economy can be the response to plastic pollution, provided that it adopts a fair definition of it posing as fundamental principles the reduction of consumption of resources and energy and the absence of harm on the life chain. The non-governmental organization confirmed in committee this Wednesday its support for the creation of the National Plastics Agency. We must take into account these strong, hammered, solid, unanimously shared recommendations. Current strategies are not up to date; the drastic reduction in the volume of plastic used must be the heart of it. The stakes are such that new forms of governance need to be adopted. That is the meaning of the bill that I am introducing today. By tackling what makes plastic abundant and inexpensive, that is, oil, it intends to stop the leak forward. By proposing the creation of a specialized national agency, it aims to provide leadership for a strategy to take over plastic. Building on the arrangements already made in France and Europe, it increases their effectiveness. In particular, everyone will agree that the general statements of packaging will be a key step in the process of releasing single-use plastic packaging. The current fight against plastic is focused on single-use plastic, by banning certain products or by promoting recycling, as the AGEC law has done. But if we are to reduce plastic waste on the right scale, we must take into account all sources of pollution and lead a more comprehensive and proactive strategy. We need to raise the dikes in the face of the tsunami that swallows earth's life. The main objective of this text is therefore to disconnect plastic from oil in order to reduce its production, its climate and environmental impact, and thus to force the plastic economy to transform. The bill consists of five articles and is subject to a number of amendments. Article 1 proposes to prohibit, from 2030 onwards, the manufacture and making available for sale or supply of plastics manufactured, in whole or in part, from petroleum or petroleum products. Recall that 6% of the global carbon budget, and soon 15%, is dedicated to plastic manufacturing. By closing the oil tap for plastic, we will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As rapporteur, however, I will propose that, following the hearings that I have conducted, this production not be completely terminated: health, safety or safety uses could justify authorizing the manufacture of certain plastics from oil beyond 2030, under the control of the Government. I have noted that the LR Group agrees with this strategy, since it has tabled an amendment to postpone its effect to 2050. That's proof she's good. I believe that the 2050 date is not acceptable given the urgency, but I remain open to dialogue. Many alarmed themselves that the bill could be the Trojan horse of bio-sourced plastic, made from plants. No, biosourcé isn't going to replace oil to make plastic! The volume of oil currently in use alone shows that there will be no bio-based equivalent. We cannot ignore the fact that biosourcé suffers and will suffer even more in the future from regulatory, fiscal or land-use constraints; All these measures will result in an increase in the cost of the kilo of plastic based on plant material. The different projections of bio-sourced plastic professionals indicate that they will only be able to cover 10 to 15% of the plastic volume in 2030! Then you will ask us where the main source of plastic production will be located. Well, it'll be recycled, mechanically and chemically. With the end of oil as the main material for making plastic, recycled oil will become the main resource. We are looking to send industrialists a signal to ensure that they can invest in plastic recycling and loop control. Articles 2 and 3 support this zero plastic strategy. Article 4 meets the ambitions of the AGEC law to tackle single-use plastic packaging by proposing general states of packaging. Article 5 creates a new public institution with an administrative character and national competence, the National Plastics Agency, with a view to bringing together the various stakeholders in the plastic management policy. [[Applause on a few benches in the LT group]] The Committee on Sustainable Development and Spatial Planning has not adopted the articles of the bill. However, the objectives set can be achieved in ten years, provided that we have the political will and appropriate tools, such as the National Plastics Agency, which is very much expected. The main aim is to open up the debate: the draft law shows the way, like other texts adopted here, such as the one prohibiting thermal vehicles from 2040: it was taken over by the European Union, which put the ban in 2035. We must now set an example of another approach to plastic pollution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u105	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u106	Mr rapporteur, I thank you once again for allowing us to discuss plastic pollution, a poison that is sometimes invisible, but which still has a profoundly harmful effect. As you pointed out, plastic pollution, a major scourge of modern times, has catastrophic effects on biodiversity. The figures speak for themselves: a seventh continent as large as three times metropolitan France; 100,000 marine mammals dying each year of plastic pollution... Unfortunately, ecosystems are not the only victims of this pollution: each week we would swallow the equivalent of five grams of plastic, the equivalent of a blue card. This cannot, of course, last any longer. The fight against plastic pollution is an environmental priority and a major health issue; a moral imperative, even in relation to the species and ecosystems it threatens. Thank you, Mr Lambert, and all the Members who worked with you to draft the bill. First, I would like to reaffirm the Government's full commitment to the fight against plastic pollution. We are fully committed to eliminating these releases to the environment. Important laws have also been passed, such as the "anti-spill" law, or AGEC law, in 2020, and the "climate and resilience" law, aimed at combating climate disruption and strengthening resilience to its effects, adopted last summer. They've made us cross paths with prohibitions that I want to return to. The first lever at our disposal concerns the life cycle of plastics; So we started an exit of disposable plastics, which is one of the first sources of pollution. With a single-use plastic packaging release target by 2040, we have included in the law one of Europe's most ambitious trajectories. Since last month, for example, plastic packaging surrounding fruit and vegetables has been largely prohibited; for a year or even two years in some cases, many everyday objects, such as plates, cups and disposable cutlery, are banned from store stalls in their plastic form; in a year, fast-foods will have to use reusable dishes for on-site consumption; Finally, still in the "climate and resilience" law, we have foreseen that, by 2030, 20% of supermarket products will be sold in bulk, which is another way of drastically limiting packaging. We are therefore emerging from the disposable model, which is one of the leading causes of plastic pollution, in order to replace it with sustainable uses. In industry, in particular, we have taken a very strong action in favour of recycling, setting us the extremely ambitious target of 100% recycled plastic by 2025. We are far from it, you will tell me: today, less than a third of the plastic waste we produce is recycled. It is therefore essential to speed up the development of recycling. To this end, we are mobilising very important investments: 370 million euros under the fourth investment programme for the future, the PIA4, but also 500 million in the France 2030 plan for the industrialization of new processes and the acceleration of recycling strategies. I also want to say a word about microplastics. As you know, France fully supports the recommendations of the European Chemicals Agency and their inclusion in the REACH Regulation – registration, assessment, authorisation of and restrictions on chemicals. As you call us, rapporteur, we are working with our European partners by integrating the microplastic parameter into the process of assessing the good ecological status of aquatic environments. In principle, therefore, we are fully in favour of this ambition; To date, we do not have standardized methods, but work is under way to allow this. An action dedicated to the measurement of microplastics was added to the Micropollutant Plan at the end of 2019 to define reliable methods of analysis and a call for expressions of interest for research projects is being set up, with a budget of 600,000 euros, to allow us to better understand the transfers and storage of microplastics in water and soil. At the same time, standardisation work continues within the various dedicated committees of AFNOR – Association française de normalisation – and the European Committee for Standardization, CEN. We also go to the end of the logic of recycling by reincorporating recycled plastic into many products. We have thus strengthened, since 2020, the bonus for packaging that incorporates recycled plastic. To this end, more than EUR 150 million has been provided for in the France Recovery Plan. This is still a considerable and unexpected budget to speed things up. The Government's efforts in that regard were not limited to national policy. At European level, it has supported the adoption of a contribution to the European budget based on non-recycled plastic packaging waste, the entry into force of which last year provides incentives for all Member States to reduce their packaging waste and encourages Europe's transition to a circular economy. We look forward to new initiatives by the European Commission on plastics and packaging, which are to be published in the summer of 2022 and will enable France to bring to European level the measures adopted under the law on combating waste and the circular economy and the law on climate and resilience. We are at the forefront of thinking in this area and have enlightened the way to European debates, where we have an important voice. In the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we have launched an international mobilisation on the issue of plastics. They will be one of the main topics for discussion at the One Ocean Summit next week in Brest, for which we will all be mobilized. This summit will bring together the international community at the highest level: Heads of State and Government, as well as companies and the world of finance, will meet together to adopt concrete objectives and commitments in the fight against plastic pollution. France, along with the European Union and many States of the world, is looking forward to the early adoption of a legally binding global agreement covering the entire life cycle of plastics. As you know, the United Nations Environment Assembly is meeting at the end of February in Nairobi to start formal negotiations for such an agreement. As Vice-President of the UNEA, you can obviously count on me to show the highest ambition for this treaty. I will therefore be present in Nairobi throughout these negotiations. Unfortunately, the entire international community does not share the same ambitions as we do. Important work must therefore be done with our closest and other partners in order to involve as many countries as possible in this legally binding treaty. As you can see, the Government shares the concerns of the co-signatories of the bill. However, we differ as to the means to be used. This text provides for the complete abolition of the use of petroleum-based plastic from 2030, based on the adoption of a national "zero petroleum plastic" strategy and the setting of a timetable for banning the products concerned. However, this strategy does not seem to us to be the most appropriate strategy for tackling these pollutions for several reasons. First of all, the ban on petrosoured plastic, to the benefit of bio-sourced plastic, would not necessarily respond effectively to the pollution problem. In fact, questions remain about the health and environmental impact of bio-sourced plastics. The latter remain plastic resins; they are made of the same polymers as petrosourized plastics. They are sometimes compostable; not necessarily biodegradable. All uncertainties in this area must be removed. Scientific work is under way, which will shed light on us. The European Single-Use Plastics Directive does not distinguish bio-based plastics from conventional plastics, because in nature both have the same impact on environments and biodiversity. It is therefore important to distinguish between "bio-soured" and "bio-degradable"; These are two very distinct properties. I would also like to point out that most bio-based plastics use biomass, not waste from biomass. This creates a conflict of use of agricultural land, which is primarily intended for food production. On all these points, a balance must be found. Even if I understand your wish to see progress in the use of bio-sourced products, we must not let ourselves be abused by the promises of those who promote their massive use. Apart from the fact that the ban on petrosoured plastic would therefore be inappropriate, it poses a real feasibility problem, for several reasons. First of all, from a legal point of view, such a measure would be fragile, from the point of view of both international and European and domestic law. Prohibiting this type of plastic on our markets would pose real difficulties under WTO rules – World Trade Organization; This would also contravene the European principle of free movement. We have also conducted an extremely rich debate on this issue in the context of the review of the AGEC Act. We had finally planned "output targets" rather than "bans", which allowed us to escape certain legal constraints. Furthermore, it seems technically unrealistic to plan to ban petrosourized plastics and to replace them entirely with bio-sourced plastics by 2030. Currently, they account for only 1% of the world's plastic production. Imagine the rise in power that would be necessary! Although the production of these plastics currently believes, in view of the problems mentioned above, it is difficult to imagine that the industry is capable of providing enough plastic to replace other plastics in such a short period of time. As you know, the Government is already pursuing a comprehensive strategy in this area. We have given priority to the release of disposable plastic and are acting at the source to avoid this waste, reflecting on new production and consumption practices. We must also continue to focus our efforts on recycling, to make the plastic life cycle truly circular and thus to limit waste and the pollution resulting therefrom. It is the triptych "reduce, reuse, recycle", also called the 3R strategy. Your bill provides for public consultation and governance of plastic policy. Thus, the principle of organizing a public debate, in the form of general states, would be enshrined in the law and a national plastic agency would be created. However, these expectations seem to me to be largely met; It is therefore not necessary to include these provisions in the law. You know this because you participated in the reflection on it, we have a 3R strategy that will be submitted to public consultation very soon; documents were sent to stakeholders last Friday. We aim to adopt this strategy before the end of the quinquennium. In parallel with this public consultation, which will allow us to continue our reflections, we have established a new governance body, the CNEC – National Circular Economy Council – whose president, MP Véronique Riotton, I salute. At national level, we have a concrete strategy and action plan, which is based on the identification of 42 sectors and sectors potentially affected by reduction, re-employment and recycling by 2025. These channels can be accompanied, in order to achieve measurable objectives, and receive financial support to develop their roadmap. These are the sector 3Rs. In addition, the tasks that you propose to assign to the National Plastics Agency appear redundant with those currently carried out by ADEME – the Agency for the Ecological Transition – which benefits from a global, transversal vision of the challenges of the decarbonization of our economy because it works day to day in the management of waste – including plastics – and in their recycling. It would be superfluous to set up a new agency; This would even raise problems of clarity and conflicts of competence in the fight against plastic waste. This fight is a priority for France, which is fighting at European and international level, you will have understood. It is a question not only of ecological responsibility and ambition, but also of the preservation of natural heritage and public health. We therefore have every reason to mobilize with the highest ambition and at the highest level. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr Bertrand Pancher also applauds]] As you will understand, the Government is not in favour of this bill. Although your intentions are laudable, it seems inappropriate, both because of the priorities and the means envisaged. We will therefore deliver an opinion that is unfavourable to its adoption, even if we fully agree with the objectives you are aiming for.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u107	Mr Paul-André Colombani spoke in the general debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u108	A figure is more eloquent than a long speech: every day, the equivalent of 500 plastic containers is rejected in the Mediterranean Sea. Five hundred! This waste is fragmenting, spreading, accumulating. Let us remember the images of the plastic continents that crisscross our oceans. They absorb pollutants of terrestrial origin; serve as a support for invasive species. In some areas, seawater contains more plastics than zooplankton – they are at the root of the food chain. This density reaches its maximum off Corsica, near Italy and the Balearic Islands. We, the islanders and inhabitants of the Mediterranean, cannot resolve ourselves to the death, by fire, of our sea, the pond nostrum. The impact on marine biodiversity is dramatic. Fish, turtles, crabs or birds ingest these plastics, causing choking, liver failure and malnutrition. Other forms of pollution are more insidious, but more dangerous, in the long term. I'm thinking of the one, invisible, microplastics. In the end, plastic waste is everywhere in our environment and even in our body, with critical health consequences. Particulate matter has been found in the digestive system of 114 mammalian species, half of which is consumed by humans. In fact, every day we eat plastic. Worse, according to recent research, we inhale microplastics in the air; we absorb it with the water we drink. I add to the picture that polymers are part of the warming of our planet. According to the UN, by 2040, greenhouse gas emissions from our dependence on plastics could account for 19% of the total emissions permitted by the Paris Agreement. This panorama is alarming. But I don't want to be pessimistic or defeatist. Solutions exist to reduce the impact of plastic pollution. Some are implemented; Unfortunately, they are only partially so. According to the latest IUCN report, improved waste management could reduce the release of plastics into the Mediterranean by 50,000 tonnes per year. Furthermore, the ban on certain products – I am thinking in particular of plastic bags – would prevent the release of another 50,000 tonnes of waste. Efforts have been made in recent years – speakers from the majority are likely to talk about "climate and resilience" and "anti-spousal and circular economy". However, these measures seem insufficient to put an end to pollution that will continue to worsen in the coming years. If the available solutions were fully deployed, which is not the case, there would remain 130000 tonnes of plastic waste to be treated each year for the Mediterranean Sea alone. Some will say that we are already doing a lot; other countries must also make efforts. I think we need to lead by example and accelerate. That is what this text proposes, defended by our colleague François-Michel Lambert. It is innovative in that it sets a new ambition: that of transforming our production methods to reduce our dependence on polymers. Others see the ban on oil-based plastic by 2030 as an impractical and undesirable utopia. Let them remember that derogations would remain possible for certain essential products and that alternatives to the use of these plastics exist. I am also referring to those who fear that such a measure will, by way of elimination, promote bio-sourced plastics, the impact of which on the environment is also problematic. I very much agree with the need to better regulate the rules of their production in future legislative texts in order to avoid the effects on the board such as land grabbing. But by adopting this text, we would send a strong signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u109	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u110	To reject it would, on the contrary, be to recognize that we are satisfied with a policy of small steps, while the Earth and the oceans die suffocated by our waste. Scientists are warning us: the fifth planetary limit, which specifically concerns chemical and plastic discharges, has just been exceeded. Clearly, we are putting a little more in jeopardy the balance of the planet. So now is no longer the time for small prohibitions and virtuous individual gestures. We must, without delay, fight administrative inertia and provide ourselves with a roadmap towards zero plastic. To achieve our objectives, to combat economic influences and to increase our knowledge, we propose to rely on a national plastic agency. This text thus draws up a global strategy, with an objective, a method and a tool, the agency. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Ultimately, with this text, we want to break the link between oil and plastic, enhance recycling and above all get out of the age of all plastic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u111	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u112	With this text, we are invited to discuss an essential subject. We would therefore like first of all to thank our colleague François-Michel Lambert and the Libertés et territoires Group for putting this bill on the agenda of our work. The urgency to act against plastic pollution is now a consensus. As confirmed by a recent report, which has been relatively unnoticed in the media, we have now crossed the fifth global limit, that of chemical pollution, especially due to plastic products, which contain more than 10,000 chemicals and carry major environmental risks. The total mass of plastics on the planet would now represent more than twice the mass of all living mammals. About 80% of all plastics ever produced remain in the environment. The phenomenon has accelerated for twenty years and is steadily increasing: plastic production is expected to double by 2050. The textile industry predicts, for example, that the consumption of textile polyester will increase from 30 million tonnes in 2010 to 72 million tonnes in 2030, an increase of 240% in 20 years, when, at the same time, cotton production will remain at 30 million tonnes per year. While awareness of the seriousness of the phenomenon and the danger posed by the proliferation of plastics to the environment and human health is general, there is far from lip cutting. The measures taken under the Law on Combating Waste and the Circular Economy and the Law on Climate and Resilience are clearly not up to the challenges. It is not by banning single-use plastics by 2040 and defining smokey action plans on zero plastic at sea at the time of 2025 that we will manage to stem the phenomenon. We need to stop these useless chattering and get us up to the stakes. It is the great merit of the text which is proposed to us that we finally set an ambitious and concrete objective. The fight against plastic pollution must become a major priority. That said, the text you are proposing is too unoperational in our view. It is based on the assumption that the only way to enhance end-of-life plastic and bio-based plastic is to ban polymers from hydrocarbons, which now account for 99% of plastics. You suggest that we focus more on the nature of the products than on their uses. On the contrary, the OPECST report published at the end of 2020 called for a hierarchical and orderly list of plastics to be reduced, considering their quality, avoidability or otherwise, their lifespan and the risk of leakage to the environment. This approach by use seems more appropriate to us: a ban from 2030 on polymers produced from hydrocarbons raises the question of the adaptability of the industry and the substitutable or non-substitutable nature of these plastics in certain industrial uses. While we can no doubt reduce without damage the use of plastic in the textile industry, are we sure that we can do without plastic in the automotive industry? Do bio-sourced plastics have, for example, sufficient resistance qualities? If we are convinced that we need to reduce plastic production and move towards a circular economy by improving the recycling and efficiency of production processes, we are more focused on the planned shortage strategy that you call for. We believe that it is more appropriate to define a national strategy for the reduction of plastic waste, with targeted prohibitions of certain uses and strong measures to support the development of research and recycling. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and SOC groups. – The rapporteur also applauds]] Despite these reservations, the GDR Group will vote in favour of the text because it allows us to move out of empty proclamations of content that are instead of politics in the ranks of the majority. If we do not agree with the letter of your text, we share its spirit and voluntarism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u113	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u114	We all share the objective of combating plastic pollution pursued by the bill and we welcome your work, Mr rapporteur. But the solutions it proposes are not the right ones; It will not provide France with truly effective tools. In an attempt to promote a national strategy "zero petroleum plastic", this text turns out to be the door open to bioplastics, which do not have much organic: they can be made up of plastic resins up to 75% and contain many additives. In addition, they require the occupation of food agricultural land, a high level of water and energy consumption, and are not recyclable since there is no specific treatment route. Abandoned in nature, they pose the same problems as conventional plastics. This text runs counter to the European Directive on the impact of plastics on the environment, which does not distinguish between petroleum-based plastics and bio-based plastics. The Packaging Directive – which accounts for 45% of plastic production – states that Member States cannot prohibit the placing on the market of plastics if they comply with the provisions laid down; so that the proposal for a law contravenes European law. France cannot act alone, but must be part of the European context. To ban traditional plastics would mean depriving France of essential materials, penalizing its economy and industry. While plastics companies have been innovating and investing for decades to improve their environmental and environmental performance, and saving the resource by making sure that the raw material is valued at the end of its life, the bill would undermine all virtuous initiatives undertaken by the industry. Prohibitions are not a solution, especially when they are not based upstream on in-depth impact studies. In a country such as France, which has a waste collection and management system, plastic pollution is mainly due to the wild abandonment, by accident or negligence, of waste in the environment. The only alternative is to recover, reduce and recycle all our plastic waste. This is what we have intended with the AGEC law, with the aim of changing our production and consumption patterns and giving France a national strategy of reduction, re-employment and recycling, known as 3R. The AGEC law sets a single-use zero-plastic heading, with progressive steps by 2040; it provides for 100% plastic recycling in 2025. Not only do we set an ambitious course, but at the same time we give the actors the means of transformation. In 2021, the "climate and resilience" law reinforced this ambition, with the development of bulk sales and the fourth investment plan of the future, the PIA 4, which accelerates recycling strategies and encourages the search for new technologies for the reincorporation of materials. We have also adopted the zero plastic plan released at sea by 2025, to preserve marine and coastal ecosystems. Let us not forget that polymer industries are essential to modern life; They have contributed to tremendous progress in our daily lives. Polymers are essential health allies to save lives; We were able to measure their benefits to curb the spread of the virus during the pandemic. The strategy to combat plastic pollution is based on uses more than the nature of the products, as recommended by OPECST. We tell you again: we are all aware of the damage to the oceans. This is a global problem, and governments must work together. More than injunctions, we need cultural change; Education is at the heart of this change. It is in this context that we must continue the trajectory set by the majority within the framework of the AGEC Act. Its objectives of reducing, reusing and recycling plastic appear to be the best solution to effectively combat plastic pollution, with decrees. We have provided our country with ambitious tools, which have been agreed upon and which have attracted strong support. This bill puts them at risk; That is why the Committee on Sustainable Development has rejected it as a whole. The group La République en marche invites you not to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u115	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u116	Environmental protection and the fight against global warming are key issues for all of us. We must prepare for the future of future generations by rethinking our way of life and consumption, leading to a more environmentally responsible society. Yes, we must limit overpacking: we are all aware of it. In fact, the project defended by the Republicans for President 2022 identifies the fight against air pollution, the preservation of water quality and the reduction of waste as major priorities. The law on combating waste and for a circular economy, adopted in this Chamber on 10 February 2020, marked a new stage. The flagship measures, which came into force on 1 January, include the fight against single-use plastic, as well as the creation of new and expanded producer responsibility sectors (REPs). We are all aware that the impacts of plastic are multiple and that it is important to work on alternative solutions. But before banning plastics, alternative solutions must first be explored, and above all, they must be made to ensure that their environmental balance is better in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and the optimisation of resource consumption. In wanting to be too virtuous, let us not replace pollution with one that would be environmentally harmful. Plastic monomaterials are recyclable and increasingly recycled. Thus, banning virgin materials of fossil origin would deprive France of materials essential to the achievement of its objectives in the fight against climate change and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, provided for in the Energy and Climate Act 2019, known as the "energy-climate" law. Finally, prohibitions are not the solution. To be viable, any proposed legislation must ensure the relevance of the proposed actions and their feasibility. It is therefore regrettable that the text does not present or rely on any impact assessment – which you agreed in committee, rapporteur. With this bill, I am sorry to tell you, you present all the clichés of punitive and irresponsible ecology. This text runs counter to the national 3R strategy being drafted, without providing any added value or long-term vision, which the players in the sector need to carry out the necessary changes. The transformations in the sector have shown encouraging results, with 75 per cent of the players already changing part of their supply to a circular economy, recycling and monomaterials. A major step forward has been the creation of a recycling industry to allow the use of recycled polypropylene and to create a virtuous loop. The financing of a genuine research and development policy produces concrete results which cannot be overlooked. Biobased plastic and biodegradable plastic, which you recommend in your bill, pose the essential issue of recycling. By mixing them at the classic collection, you disrupt the recycling of plastics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u117	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u118	To date, bio-sourced and biodegradable plastics have not been recycled or recycled. It is therefore not familiar with the sector and totally counterproductive. Therefore, the real question to be asked is that of collection and a much more selective sorting. Dear colleague, if the subject is of interest to you, I would like to work with you, with the players in the plastic industry, as well as those in the collection and sorting...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u120	... to move forward constructively and realistically on this subject. The outright ban is a danger for businesses and competitiveness compared to our main European partners. Let's stop putting sticks in the wheels of French companies. If we adopt this text, we would put thousands of jobs at stake and we would weaken a sector in advance in research and development and in tension in recruitment. The entire plastic industry is aware of all these issues. A great deal of work has been done in companies, which are increasingly virtuous in their production and in the treatment of their waste. Let's trust them and give them time. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Danielle Brulebois also applauds]] Industry, different administrations, but also independent authorities such as ADEME and ANSES – the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health – have been working together and for many years on this issue. Let them move forward calmly and maintain an open and constructive dialogue. You have understood that, for all these reasons, Members of the Republican Group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u122	Mr Philippe Bolo has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u123	Thank you, rapporteur, for giving us the opportunity to discuss plastic pollution. As a co-author, with Senator Angèle Préville, of the OPECST report on plastic pollution, I share most of the observations made by previous speakers. Plastic pollution is of great concern to the French, who measure its impacts on the environment, biodiversity and their health. Mr rapporteur, we know your commitment to this. You have long incarnate it, with sincerity and perseverance. Unfortunately, the text you are proposing is missing its target: to ban the production, possession and marketing of petrosourized polymers in France in 2030 will not affect the trajectory of plastic pollution. A chemical recall demonstrates this. Polymers are long molecules made of carbon atoms – imagine necklaces of pearls, each representing one of these atoms. For the most part, the carbon of polymers used in the manufacture of plastics is currently derived from petroleum. The bill is therefore tantamount to saying that from 2030, the carbon of polymers will have to have another origin. The question then before us is what could be the new carbon deposit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u124	Recycled!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u125	While the use of agricultural biomass appears to be a technologically mature solution, it questions competition with its food use. This text requires an in-depth analysis of the subject and, as we discuss it, we lack an impact assessment. There is a major risk that the adoption of the bill will lead to a new problem, with the diversion of the use of agricultural products necessary for food, not to mention the resulting land impacts. The effects of Article 1 are therefore unknown. In addition to this first analysis, linked to polymer chemistry, another disadvantage of the text is that it does not go to the heart of the subject of plastic pollution. In itself, the ban on the production, possession and sale of petrosourized polymers in 2030 will in no way influence the leakage of plastic into the environment, even though it is the source of pollution. The proposed legislation will not limit the leakage of granules of virgin polymers during transport and handling. It will not restrict the use of intentionally added microplastics in certain consumer products. It will not reduce the dispersion of plastic microparticles when washing our synthetic clothing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u126	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u127	It will not correct malfunctions in the collection and treatment of end-of-life plastic waste.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u128	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u129	Article 4 aims to include in the law the organization of a national debate on food packaging, which you are right to target. Plastics, where they are single-use, short-lived and non-recyclable, must be subject to binding regulation; and it must be all the more so when they do not bring any added value in terms of food health protection or the fight against waste. We will have to learn to do without unnecessary plastics, whose only logic is marketing positioning. Nevertheless, is it necessary to go through the law to organize a national debate? The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats believe that it does not. Our assembly would be great not to use the law to meet objectives that can do without it. The debate could be entrusted, without having to legislate, to the National Commission for Public Debate, competent and experienced in the mobilization of our fellow citizens on matters that concern them. The purpose of Article 5 is to establish a national plastic agency. Here again, our group does not agree with your proposal, considering that there is no shortage in this area. Different organizations mobilize expertise on the subject of plastic pollution: ADEME, the Institute of Polymers and Composites, eco-organisms, to name but a few. Strengthening the capacity of those who lack it and mobilising their skills in ecodesign processes seems preferable to the creation of a new structure, whose skills also exist. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] In accordance with the same logic, the establishment of research and innovation institutes must be supported. By considering the social conditions of acceptability of the changes to be made, they will enable France to acquire the capacity to bring together research, expertise, training, transfer and economic value, in order to succeed in the technological, industrial and societal transitions that await us. Because it does not prioritize problem plastics, and because it does not target the leakage of plastics into the environment, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u130	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u131	The proliferation of fossil-based plastic is a scourge to be combated as a matter of urgency. According to a recent report by the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, plastic has become, in less than a hundred years, the third most manufactured material in the world, after cement and steel. It is also recalled in this report that the strong growth in plastic production is driven by the boom in the packaging sector. As a result, 81% of the plastics put into circulation become waste after a single year of existence. However, the negative impact of fossil-based plastic on biodiversity, climate change and human health is widely documented. Our group shares the objective of an ambitious strategy to reduce the production and consumption of petroleum-based plastics, a limited resource whose use also places France in a situation of strategic dependence. As part of the review of the law on the fight against waste and the circular economy, our group called for strong measures to drastically reduce – and as quickly as possible – our dependence. We therefore welcome the consideration of this bill presented by François-Michel Lambert and by the Libertés et territoires group. The content of the text is ambitious: to move from a national strategy of zero single-use packaging by 2040 to a "zero petroleum plastic" strategy by 2030. However, in his report for the Committee on Sustainable Development, the rapporteur pointed out that the question of the time needed to achieve this objective could be discussed, and that such a ban should also be laid down at European level, in order to avoid legal problems linked to the free movement of products. It should therefore be noted that this text would have been usefully supplemented by an impact assessment, in order to assess both the question of timing and the question of the adaptation of European law. However, when it comes to a bill, not a government initiative, we do not have it. Such a study would also have been useful in accurately assessing the impact of new restrictive measures on different economic sectors. Indeed, many sectors are highly dependent on plastic. Fortunately, most of the companies concerned are sensitized and mobilized to develop their sector, but these players need support and support to accelerate this movement. Article 5 has the merit of anticipating this issue, by providing for the creation of a national plastic agency, responsible in particular for the financial, human and technical support of plastic management projects: if this proposal is interesting, whether it is to create a new agency or to equip an existing agency with new resources, it is necessary to strengthen the support of the actors concerned. We therefore call on the Government to draw on certain measures contained in this bill, including the provisions of article 5,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u132	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u133	...to begin to co-build, in conjunction with parliamentarians, a catch-up bill to correct errors and omissions in the AGEC Act. This bill should, of course, be accompanied by a serious impact assessment and a multi-year strategy to support all the economic sectors concerned. In the meantime, although of course we share the objective of a more ambitious strategy against oil-based plastics and we welcome the constant and tireless commitment of the rapporteur on these subjects, the Socialist and Related Group will abstain from this text at this stage of the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u134	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u135	Plastic is a scourge that will leave its mark in the least known and most hostile spaces to man, from the bottom of our oceans to the top of our mountains. Between 1950 and 2015, 70% of plastic production turned into waste, of which almost 80% were landfilled or disposed of in nature. By 2030, global production of plastic waste could increase by 41% and the amount accumulated in the oceans could double. We know that nearly 10 million tonnes of waste are disposed of each year. Still recently, at the presentation of the future One Ocean Summit last Friday, our Special Envoy for the Oceans, Peter Thomson, indicated that this figure would double by 2030 and increase threefold in 2050. According to scientists, only 1% of this waste floats at the source of the oceans, while the rest is buried in plastic microbeads. This is our reality today, to us who live on the same planet earth. For my part, I live on the planet sea, 20,000 kilometers from here, far from the continents, in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. I see these pollutions every day on the shores of our coasts, coming from what we do on land, but also from what we throw at sea: it is unfortunate, and the situation is almost inextricable. I don't know if we can get all this plastic out of the oceans. What I know is that evil is done: we have the responsibility, together, to find all possible solutions to stop this massacre. Today we make our planet, both on land and at sea, a plastic trash: everything we eat is polluted by this element. I am not a scientist, like some of my colleagues I have heard, and I will always have a maximalist position on this subject in my personal capacity. That is why I co-signed this bill: it is time to have much more radical positions on plastic. Will we achieve this by 2030? Even if everyone thinks it's impossible, I'm dreaming that it is. I even consider 2030 far too late. We fought, my colleague Jimmy Pahun and I, during the discussion of the text "climate and resilience", only to remove – without quite succeeding – the plastic food film, which represents a tiny part of all plastic pollution. Nevertheless, I welcome all the work that has been done on the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible food for all, known as EGALIM. I know that the Government and the majority have done a lot of work on the latest legislation, with the AGEC Act and the EGALIM Act, of course. On plastic, we need to go much further and much faster because, ladies and gentlemen, we can do much better than 2040 for single-use plastic. I am confident that our successors will adopt far more ambitious measures, as this will become obvious, as in a number of other subjects on which we are questioning and which will eventually prevail over time. Not only the ocean, but also everything around us, is threatened by human activities, especially petrosourized plastics. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Marie-George Buffet also applauds]] Our group's position is shared. Like many of us, I think this bill shows the way and contains solutions: as you have understood it personally, I will support it, because it includes both measures to reduce these pollutions, but also measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions; It also plans to contribute to the public debate, build and strengthen our strategies in this direction. The only flat is that of the date: 2030, is it realistic? I prefer to support a text that proposes a very ambitious date – perhaps it will be less so at the end of the parliamentary shuttle – because we cannot afford to miss such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u136	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u137	Disposable plastics, for single use, overpacks destroy our landscapes and biodiversity, from microplastics to the supercontinent of waste, in almost every ocean, which we have mentioned a great deal. That is why the IDU and independent group co-signed the motion for a resolution by Mr Philippe Bolo on France's commitment to strengthening international action to combat plastic pollution. The absolute priority must be to reduce the overall volume of our waste, especially plastic waste, and then, in a second phase, to re-use and improve sorting. Despite all the alternatives proposed or being developed for the production of plant or biodegradable plastics, the best waste is that which is not produced. The triptych of circular economy is to reduce, reuse and, finally, recycle. During the examination of the law on combating waste and a circular economy, we had defended many proposals, some of which were adopted, including the ban on plastic packaging for newspapers and magazines. Through a trans-party initiative, we voted to ban the placing on the market of products intentionally containing microplastics. In New Caledonia, of course, we are – like my colleague Maina Sage of French Polynesia – particularly sensitive to these subjects, which we are confronted with every day, the sea constituting our environment. It is a nourishing sea; It's a sea where we go to family; It's a sea that lives in us all year long; It is a sea that is part of the identity of our countries. In 2019, in New Caledonia, we passed a law banning the use of single-use plastics, now in force, like the one adopted a little later by the Parliament of the Republic. Beyond our identity related to the sea and the oceans, we are also sensitive to this issue because we touch on the reality of the world, i.e. a tenfold increase in marine pollution since 1980. New Caledonia has the peculiarity of having coral reefs, ecosystems that are part of the world's world heritage. With the Australian reefs, which are in poor health, they are the only coral reefs to have benefited from this recognition. As everyone knows, they are home to exceptional biodiversity, as one third of the known marine species find food and shelter there. Their enemy is plastic, which makes them sick. Today, 11.1 billion pieces of plastic are trapped in coral reefs in the Asia-Pacific region, which alone accounts for a third of the world's coral reefs. The density of plastic pieces per 100 square metres of reefs varies from one in Australia to twenty-five in Indonesia. According to a study two years ago, from the moment a piece of plastic touches a coral reef, the disease of the reef is considered to worsen by 89%. Plastic causes tissue and animal degeneration. As these reefs are an oasis of biodiversity, it is our biodiversity that is heavily and inevitably affected at a level that we can hardly imagine or conceive of, even though we often talk about it. In 2019, a scientific study demonstrated the presence of plastic microparticles in 100% of the species samples collected by researchers in the Mariana pit, at 11,000 metres depth. Thus, not only is there a marine continent of plastic waste, but at a depth of 11,000 meters, marine animals are poisoned by plastic. For all these reasons, we welcome the initiative taken. It aims to speed up the pace, in ways that, as we can see, have been challenged. However, it seems inappropriate for two major reasons. First, the provision to limit the ban on plastics to those produced from oil is questionable. Indeed, we do not have an impact assessment assessing all the effects that this targeted ban could have. Secondly, other measures do not seem relevant to us either, such as the creation of an umpteenth agency dedicated to plastic, a mission that several organizations are already taking on. In conclusion, the UDI-I Group would like to thank the Libertés et Territoires Group for putting this issue on the agenda and thus allowing us to discuss it. We need to make people aware that more proactive action is needed, in order to ban plastic as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u138	Mrs Jennifer De Temmerman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u139	It snows plastic on the Alps and the Pyrenees. This was revealed by a study conducted by the National Centre for Scientific Research (CNRS); This is where our dependence on polymers led. I will not dwell on this observation. Others before me have taken stock and the worrying consequences of the ubiquitous presence of this material in our environment, even in our bodies. On the other hand, the shortcomings of policies to date to combat this phenomenon attract my attention. The United Nations recalled that by 2040, at the current level of government commitments, the amount of plastic released into the oceans is expected to triple and that of the oceans is expected to quadruple. Of course, France does not bear this responsibility alone, but it takes its part and the measures taken over the last five years lack ambition. It is true that a number of common-sense proposals have been made – and my colleague François-Michel Lambert is at the origin of some of them – first and foremost, the prohibition of certain single-use plastics. At the time, reluctance was expressed. For some, the end of cups, glasses, disposable plates, plastic straws or steak spades was an impractical or even dogmatic measure. However, in my constituency, since 2018, the company Mon goblet en lin proves the opposite. These measures are now accepted or even endorsed by all ranks of the National Assembly. There have also been missed opportunities. First, from the outset, the law on combating waste and a circular economy suffered from a lack of ambition. Today, its scope is reduced by implementing decrees, when published. Five extended producer liability lines (REPs) were to be introduced on 1 January to relieve the public waste management service. But only one was created. The funds dedicated to repair that were to be introduced on 1 January will finally be available only in June and will cover only 10% of the repair costs, compared with 20% originally planned. And what about the 3R strategy? Finally, it will be limited to non-binding guidelines, which will not be subject to sanctions if the objectives are not achieved. So many setbacks and disappointments. In fact, some non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which have been splintered by this review, have indicated to us their willingness to be better involved in the future in the implementation of the texts and their follow-up, and more generally in the formulation of public policies on the issue of plastic. Other structures consider that research on polymers should be further developed. Impact studies on alternatives to petrosoured plastic are now incomplete. The issue of additives should also be explored. The composition of plastics continues to multiply, which not only undermines the recyclable nature of the material, but also harms biodiversity when it is released into nature. You will have understood this, all the actors we have met – except perhaps the plastic lobby and, paradoxically, the departments of the Ministry of Environmental Transition – have indicated to us their willingness to have a structure in order to exchange on the stakes and impacts of plastic. To date, there are no entities responsible for these matters. ADEME, the Directorate-General for Risk Prevention or local authorities operate in silo. They do not have an overall view of the industrial sector and the different uses of plastic, its life cycle and recycling issues. We will not be able to reduce our dependence on plastic without bringing together all the actors concerned around the table. This will be the vocation of the National Plastics Agency, which will address the lack of annual expertise on the subject in public administrations. In addition, it will ensure the proper implementation of the national "zero petroleum plastic" strategy and the phasing-out schedule for polymers made from petroleum. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group. – Mr Aurélien Taché also applauds]] Plastic pollution is becoming a major concern for our citizens. For lack of ambition and political will, we have already lost far too much time. Let's not miss out and take advantage of the current momentum to review our production methods and put an end to all plastic. You tend to hide behind Europe; I'll tell you that impossible is not French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u140	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u141	All indicators are red: glaciers melt, land burns, natural disasters multiply in France as elsewhere. We are no longer at the measuring stage to save the future of our youth. Nevertheless, we are more at the stage where we are waiting to see the consequences of our pollution, whether social or ecological, and to close our eyes to the reality that is emerging. We will not be able to find a solution later. It is time for ecology, we must act now. But, pending this change through the ballot box in a few months, we must begin to act; the proposed law allows it, by reducing the consumption of plastics in France. As continents of plastic waste emerge around the world, when it is estimated that a human being ingests five grams of plastic a week, the question of plastic becomes major. We find him in the air we breathe, in the water we drink, in the food we eat. If plastic is a problem for humans today, it has been years since our millions of tons of plastic killed fauna and flora in the greatest silence of industrialists trying to cover their ecocides with greenwashing. But beyond plastic, oil products are obviously the problem. Lack of government action has a cost that we pay very much from an economic and environmental point of view. Indeed, to go further, we must quickly financially support research, in order to fill our gaps on the consequences of the presence of plastics in nature. We must act with other countries because it is a global problem, which goes beyond borders, but also bring companies that cause this pollution and use the poorest countries as waste disposal. But this must not defuse those who allow plastic to proliferate. By being in the leadership of the country, the majority and the Government should seize the opportunity offered to them with this bill to try to make up for it. Indeed, if they were to take stock of their environmental action, there would be much or, rather, little to say. Yet, citizens' mobilizations on the ecological issue – in all their forms – have never been as numerous as during this quinquennium. This is attested by the Citizens' Convention for the Climate, which the President of the Republic has taken up only a very small part of the proposals, or the marches for the climate, the success of which shows the distrust and anger expressed in particular by these young people. In 2018, there were 136,000 demonstrators everywhere in France, then more than 350,000 to go down the street in 2019. In response to these mobilizations, the Government came to do selfies in the processions, and then sent the police to gass, battling and verbalize them. Repression is the government's response to a youth who has decided to act to defend their future. These young people are calling to protest again on March 12 to say, "Look up". So, don't be like the leaders in the film, look up and look at the reality of the catastrophe of using plastic in front of you. Our colleague François-Michel Lambert's bill contains interesting and bold provisions. It aims, from 1 January 2030, to prohibit the manufacture, possession for sale, sale, sale and making available of products made from petroleum or petroleum products. It goes much further than what we voted for with regard to the various deadlines for prohibiting the provision and production of single-use packaging, namely 1 January 2021, 1 January 2022 and 1 January 2025. I understand that this bold measure is shocking, but it has the merit of questioning in concrete terms how we consume, which is not compatible with our national and European ambitions for sustainable development. For once, we would act and strike hard. So yes, we could be criticized for restricting the freedom of trade and industry. But I firmly believe that we are at a point in our history where we must make important choices. The opportunity presents itself today. The same applies to Article 2, which provides for the definition of a national "zero petroleum plastic" strategy. It would complement our national low-carbon strategy, allow us to reduce pollution against which we have not had the courage to fight and be innovative at European level; It's about time. Finally, I would particularly like to welcome section 4 of this bill, which provides for the full implementation of section 7 of the Environment Charter by launching a public debate on the measures proposed by my colleagues. Sustainable development does not have to be imposed. It involves pedagogy, dialogue and taking into account the views of everyone; In other words, he must embark the entire French society. It is intended to be not a sanction but a progress. Let's make it that way. [[The rapporteur and Mrs Marie-George Buffet applaud]] The young people for the climate and their association, Youth for climate, are right to mobilize as the minister of transport destroys the public rail service for the benefit of the planes and we still expect concrete actions from the minister of ecology, after all his beautiful words. Each beginning of a disaster-film staged a government deaf to the alerts of scientists, but we are not in a movie. So act and really fight against plastic pollution!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u142	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u143	Madam Secretary of State, you have welcomed the introduction of several prohibitions, but although I am responsible for many of them, I think the problem is elsewhere. You are still saying recycling would be a solution, but we can't just believe it so much the plastic proliferates. It is time to stop production to halt its ever stronger growth – it is now more than 5% a year. As far as bio-based products are concerned, perhaps I have not been sufficiently clear in my introductory statement. It is not a question of replacing them with petrosoured products, for two main reasons. First of all, the volumes at stake are colossal. All professionals agree that in 2030, biosourced products could best meet only a small proportion – 10% to 15% – of the needs currently covered by plastic. Therefore, in order to fill the remaining 90% to 85%, the use of plastic and recycled materials will have to be reduced, leading to a positive dynamic around these materials. Of course, this bill should not be seen as a bio-sourced Trojan. Secondly, there will have to be constraints on biosourcés, and I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to plan on those that our House could impose, whatever its uses – plastic, fuel and others – because it is clear that we will have to deal with this problem in the coming legislatures. The solutions are to be found elsewhere. By the time we voted to ban thermal vehicles in 2040, Madam Secretary of State, less than 1% of the vehicles sold were electric. Today, it is no longer 2040 that we are aiming, but 2030 for France and 2035 on a Europe-wide basis, proof that we can count on changes in economic models and especially technical ones in the industry. Let us recall here that the main result of this ban was a decrease in the number of new vehicles. By imposing constraints on the production of certain goods or products which are no longer acceptable from an environmental point of view, real uses are put back at the centre by moving away from the logic of waste. Let us come to the general statements of the packaging, which many of you have mentioned. I thank Aurélien Taché for pointing out that citizens cannot be excluded from these exchanges. The debate must be public because it is about our society, deeply upset by the rise of e-commerce and the new practices it creates, such as delivering meals at home or shopping in ten minutes, all of the services promoted by some platforms. There has not yet been any discussion on these issues. That is why it is essential to organise them by integrating citizens into a public debate. Madam Secretary of State, I would like to point out that, at their hearing, ADEME representatives told us that 2.5 full-time equivalents (FTEs) were mobilized to address the problems raised by the use of plastic. Plastic is just one priority for ADEME: if we want things to move forward, we need to create a specific structure, the National Plastics Agency. We see this well with the dynamics of biodiversity, which you defend so well. On a trip to the great Gers department yesterday, you reaffirmed your support for the Astarac Regional Natural Park project. And if these advances in national and regional natural parks have been made possible, it is thanks to the creation of the French Office for Biodiversity (OFB); We would not have been there if we had contented ourselves with the existing structures. As far as synthetic textile fibres are concerned, I would like to give some figures because I was unable to do so earlier. Their production accounts for 1.35% of world oil consumption, more than oil consumption throughout Spain, for all uses. The washing of clothing results in the release of 500,000 tons per year of plastic microfibres, especially in the oceans and coral reefs – and I thank Philippe Gomès and Maina Sage for their clarifications, who are so familiar with marine pollution because of the specificities of their territories. Take note, 500,000 tons, is the equivalent of 50 billion plastic bottles, six times the volume of those we use in France! We have made arrangements, which I have supported, in previous laws, but we do not really act to combat this phenomenon. We cannot allow the situation to deteriorate in this way. [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Mr Colombani, thank you for reminding us of the consequences of plastic pollution of the oceans for the living. You who are elected from a territory also surrounded by the sea, you know what reality it covers. You are a doctor, dear colleague, and you will probably be sensitive to the fact that babies have twice as much plastic in their stools as an adult. Nanoparticles are even found in the body of newborns still attached to their mothers. But what a society we live in! Yes, we have to go higher, further, stronger. Dear colleague Little, you rightly pointed out the unbearable consequences of plastic proliferation: their total mass would be twice that of all living mammals and about 80% of all plastics ever produced remain in nature. We must therefore rise to the challenge. You've expressed concern about biosource. I have given a few answers: it will never be able to replace the volume of oil currently used. I hope that all those who represent themselves will be re-elected and that, together, in the next legislature, we will be able to impose barriers to biosourcé, whatever its uses, so that it can be used wisely, where necessary, instead of destroying our territories and our natural spaces. Thank you for your extremely constructive criticism. Dear Danielle Brulebois, I salute your first-rate commitment. It's always a pleasure to hear you. Bioplastics will indeed cause problems if we do not grasp the major challenges attached to their uses. However, let me remind you that the target set by the AGEC law is not 100% recycling by 2025, but 100% recyclable plastic; So that, perhaps, 100% of the plastic will end up at sea for lack of capture. You are right, the struggle must be about the uses rather than the nature of the products. What all the signatories of this text propose – let them still be thanked – is to over-multiply the initiatives that this government and the previous ones took, from the Grenelle de l'environnement in 2007 to the law "climate and resilience", passing through the law of energy transition for green growth of 2015, the actions carried out in 2016 by Barbara Pompili – then very effective Secretary of State in charge of biodiversity, at the origin in particular of the Agence française de la biodiversité –, the law EGALIM and the law AGEC. There is no question of erasing what has already been done. Dear Isabelle Valentin, you seem to agree, despite what you say, on the principle of prohibition since you tabled an amendment setting it in 2050 rather than 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u144	It's a precautionary amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u145	Perhaps, but it shows that you have understood that oil cannot continue to be used, and I thank you for your support. On biosourcé, I've already explained myself. The emergency is there, we can't just move forward quietly. [[Smile on the benches of the LT group]] Dear Philippe Bolo, I cannot reduce your commitment during the five years of your term of office to your fight against plastic pollution, especially since I do not know what actions you have taken in your constituency, but it is probably the most beautiful standard you have deployed in this House. You have supported your argument on chemistry, an area that I know well – I've been familiar with plastics and polymers for a while now because I have specialized in packaging since 1988 during my studies. Whatever its origin, a polymer remains the same from a technical point of view. What I want to focus on is an economic approach. Today, if plastic is extremely abundant, it is cheap to produce for the only reason that oil costs little. I look forward to discussing the amendments, but I have seen that some of the amendments tabled by the UDI-I Group are aimed at taxing, because their signatories have understood that in order to curb the immoderate growth of plastic, it is necessary to increase its cost. For my part, the way I propose is to impose more constraints, which also makes it more expensive. Dear Claudia Rouaux, you recalled, like Philippe Gomès, that an impact study would have been judicious. The means at our disposal are what they are and, at this end of the legislature, we also need symbolism, an approach that I take, just like the Freedom and Territory Group, which I thank for its confidence. It may be necessary, at some point, to do much more than to rule out this bill, especially since no one, absolutely no one, is calling into question the disaster that we are experiencing. Dear Maina Sage, I thank you for your support of the National Plastics Agency project and for the commitment you have expressed, as we are in the last hours of the fifteenth legislature, for your beautiful and fragile territories. We would like to know them preserved while unfortunately they risk choking under the plastic. You could not have expressed more strongly, and more clearly, the urgency of action. Yes, we have to go fast, and this bill shows the way. She does not claim to be the alpha and the omega, she simply draws attention to the fact that we cannot be content with the provisions that we voted in 2019, because they will not be enough – remember that they relied on work carried out in 2017 and studied in 2018. Presumptuous as I am, I thought I knew everything about scientific studies on the impact of plastic and I am grateful to you, dear Philippe Gomès, for citing those that concern corals. It only increased my terror in the face of the consequences of plastic proliferation. I will not fail to look more closely at the mechanism by which microfibres weaken corals, already tested by global warming. There's something to worry about when you know coral reefs are home to 80% of marine life. If we kill them, this marine life will only exist in aquariums! Dear Jennifer De Temmerman, thank you for your support: yes, we must move forward instead of taking refuge behind Europe to find excuses. Let us remember that when the Government, under the leadership of Nicolas Hulot, had the courage to propose to stop the production of thermal vehicles in 2040, some, of which we are, had supported it when others had opposed it that Europe would not allow us to do so. Today, the situation is such that we have had to advance this deadline to 2030 at national level and 2035 at European level. That's the reality. Some took the risk of telling Europe that we could no longer accept the production of thermal vehicles in 2040, given the climate emergency. For plastic, we are faced with the same imperative: we can no longer accept its proliferation, we must cut off its growth trajectory fed by cheap oil. [[Applause on the benches of the LT and IDU-I groups. – Mr. Philippe Bolo also applauds]] Aurélien Taché, all the lights are red, indeed. It is important to stress, as you do, that it is also the poorest countries that suffer from this pollution, I would say even the poorest of the poor. It is indeed a rupture that is necessary, as you have understood. We cannot deal with the issue of catimini packaging. It calls, as you rightly say, for an open debate, a broad debate within the framework of the general statements of the packaging that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u146	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u147	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u148	The purpose of this article is to prohibit petroleum-based plastic from 1 January 2030. We are against it because, as I said earlier, its target is missing: bio-based plastics often pollute just as much as others and cannot therefore be an alternative solution, especially since they account for only 1% of production. In our daily life, traditional plastics are efficient and competitive; to see this, my colleague rapporteur, instead of covering our face, we only have to look around us. Consider our ballpoint pen, mobile phone, tablet, clothes, car, home and even our medicine! In order for us to focus on these materials in 2030, what are you proposing? Furthermore, since packaging accounts for 80% of ocean pollution, the remedy is that provided for by the AGEC Act: to reduce the quantity of waste, to recover and to recycle it. In keeping with the legislation we have adopted, we therefore favour an overall reduction in the production of plastics, since, I repeat, there is no alternative at the moment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u149	Mr. Jimmy Pahun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u150	The rapporteur and the Secretary of State will excuse me: I will not support my amendments, because I am going to the baptism of the first liquefied natural gas (LNG) ferry. You see, there are still things that are progressing! I had tabled two amendments calling for the removal of polystyrene from household packaging and perfluorinated compounds from food packaging and containers, respectively. These issues will need to be revisited; That is why I have also tabled a bill to that effect. Perhaps by humility, by discretion, Philippe Bolo, for his part, refrained from mentioning his motion for a resolution with a view to an international treaty on plastic. It is thanks to such a treaty that we can do it! [[The rapporteur exclaimed]] Not everything is pink, of course, but before wishing you a good weekend, I wanted to share with you two good news: on the one hand, my sister, who has just crossed the Atlantic by sail, did not see a plastic float there; On the other hand, I was on Sunday on a beach, for a waste collection operation, and the associations present judged the land rather clean. These are the results of what has been done, which does not prevent, I repeat, that much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u151	My son has also just crossed the Atlantic: he has seen exactly the opposite. Jimmy, I'm gonna turn you on!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u152	On Amendment No 18, which deletes Article 1, I have a request for a public vote before the Liberties and Territories Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u153	The article provides for the prohibition from 1 January 2030 of "polymers manufactured in whole or in part from petroleum or petroleum products". For years, however, the plastic industry has been adapting: companies have been developing ecodesign and recycling, their aim being that any packaging can be valued after its use. This ban would undermine their initiatives; That is why we are calling for its abolition.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u154	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u155	[[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Unfavorable opinion. This amendment was rejected by the committee; You understand that it runs counter to the logic of my bill. It is regrettable that Jimmy Pahun left because his own text, which was tabled just ten days ago, contains many provisions of mine. It mentions the other side of this pollution, microparticles and nanoparticles which, resulting either from cosmetic products, paints and fertilizers, or from the degradation of macroplastics, infest the seas in all their depths, all over the globe; Once again, his bill is very good, and I regret that he has not tabled all the amendments to it. On the other hand, since he spoke of his sister, I allow myself to speak of my son, who, during his crossing of the Atlantic, remained stuck seven days in an anticyclone: he told me he had never seen so many plastics in his life!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u156	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u157	This debate shows an extremely strong convergence on the need for action that is as proactive, as massive, as vigorous as possible. As I said in my opening remarks, the text, particularly in its Article 1, does not propose the right means, the right vehicles; Nevertheless, it allows us to continue this very technical discussion, to publicize the subject and to move it forward. Consequently, the opinion was unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u158	I put to the vote Amendment No 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u159	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 47 Number of votes cast 47 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 17 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u160	On Amendment No 10, as well as on Article 1, I have a request from the Libertés et territoires Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u161	This precautionary amendment is intended to replace the 2050 date with the 2030 date. The plastics industry is young: the sector was formed some 60 years ago. We are all aware of the effects of plastic on the environment, but also of the difficulty of changing industrial habits, the necessary delays. I repeat, industry professionals have been working for ten years on recycling, on new processes: let's give them a little more time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u162	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u163	We discussed this briefly earlier: of course, this postponement is not likely to satisfy me. The committee has rejected this amendment, but the main interest of the article is the signal that we must send in order to put an end to the addiction to petroleum-based plastics. Although 2050 may be too long a deadline, it is important above all to keep the debate alive. I shall therefore issue a personal opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u164	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u165	The exchanges we have just had have made it clear to you that, for the sake of consistency, since I am not in favour of the provisions of Article 1, I will not be in favour of this amendment either.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u166	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u167	Indeed, even if we agree with the objective of the amendment, we will not vote on it since we are opposed to Article 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u168	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u169	This text is said to be too fast. On this point, I want to provide a purely economic and financial perspective. With regard to the proposal to ban the production of petroleum-based plastics, it is argued that companies are not in a position to find another solution in the meantime. I would like to bring to the attention of those who have not read it a letter dated 3 February, by which BlackRock, the world's leading asset manager – 10 trillion dollars in outstanding – warns its customers that the financial markets are experiencing the beginnings of the earthquake caused by the climate transition; that there is no question of a crisis, but of a radical transformation of the economy; that the ecological transition will lead to inflation due to rising oil and carbon prices, as the network of major central banks estimated in June 2021 that the latter – to date almost free for most countries – would reach $160 in 2030. In order to avoid too brutal a shock, BlackRock therefore called on governments to show the utmost clarity in the enactment of new rules aimed at speeding up the ecological transition, in order to allow this even acceleration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u170	I put Amendment No. 10 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u171	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 46 Number of votes cast 45 Absolute majority 23 For adoption 5 Against 40
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u172	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u173	It is intended to replace in paragraph 2 the term "polymers" with "plastics". Polymers are also included in the composition of aspirin, for example; On the other hand, from a legistic point of view, "plastics" is extremely clear, hence the interest of this substitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u174	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u175	Substitution would have been useful if the article had been relevant. In other words, an unfavourable opinion on the substance, even if the form would have deserved a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u176	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 27.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u177	In my mind as in that of the cosignatories of the text, bio-sourced plastic must replace petrosourized plastic; However, in order to dispel some confusion, this amendment aims to exclude recycled plastics from the scope of the ban, which, although they are generally obtained from petrosourized plastics, do not contravene our "zero petroleum plastic" approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u178	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u179	Again, this distinction is certainly not the best way to put an end to plastic pollution. The AGEC law has considerably increased the number of channels with extended responsibility of the producer: relying on them, which apply a system of binding targets and bonuses-malus, can create an encouraging dynamic. Producers who use raw materials from recycling are strongly encouraged to continue to do so. I would also like to point out that support for investments in plastic recycling has been greatly strengthened in recent months, since ADEME has an amount of EUR 370 million in the framework of PIA 4. The strategy for accelerating recycling is therefore largely funded. It is also reinforced by the plethora of 300 million euros dedicated to the industrialization of the new processes under the France 2030 investment plan. In parallel with the overall 3R strategy currently in the consultation phase, a financial component therefore accompanies the industrial transition. In line with my unfavorable opinion on the whole bill, I express an opinion against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u180	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u181	It is clear, as I said in the introduction, that the production of certain plastic polymers will still require the use of virgin oil. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to allow the executive, who will be in charge in 2030, and beyond, to define exceptions to the general prohibition, provided for by law, on the manufacture of plastic from virgin oil. I would point out that this amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u183	I accept the opinion of the committee. The list of exemptions provided for in the amendment is not exhaustive: there is a lack of equipment that is neither in the health field nor in the national security field, such as gloves used by workers in certain sectors or pollution control equipment, which sometimes still requires petrosoured polymers. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u184	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u185	It aims to respond to a recurring criticism, expressed in particular by the NGO Zero Waste France: in an email sent to all MPs forty-eight hours before its hearing, it stressed that the bill was a Trojan horse aimed at promoting bio-based plastic and aroused unfounded fears. After the hearing, officials realized that the text was in line with their ambition. They therefore support it, just as they strongly support the creation of the National Plastics Agency. This proves that, if dialogue is necessary, it is sometimes preferable to write things down. This is what this amendment does by allowing the executive to cap the volume of bio-sourced plastic in the total volume of plastic that would be manufactured in 2030. The aim, Mr Bolo, is to avoid the risk of overflowing. The committee delivered an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u187	It is also unfavourable. I repeat: we favour the different pillars of the chain, from ecodesign of products to marketing: waste reduction, sorting at source, recycling. In this context, although some actors obviously take advantage of the possibility of using bio-based plastic – they are encouraged to do so by the levers that exist at the industrial level – the quotas for the use of bio-sourced plastic always raise questions about their environmental impact. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u188	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u189	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 47 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 10 Against 37
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u190	Amendment No 1 by Mr Philippe Gomès, introducing an additional article after Article 1, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u191	Your amendment, Mr Gomès, would have the effect of abolishing, without a transitional period, the sale of liquids contained in plastic bottles, in all establishments receiving from the public and in enterprises. You're more radical than others, and even me! I have no doubt, therefore, that you will support my bill. On the specific question that you address, I refer you to the general states of packaging: what is the place, what is the role of packaging in our society? The committee has rejected your amendment. I, for my part, issue a wisdom opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u192	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u193	My opinion is clearly unfavorable. To the extent that establishments receiving from the public cover all stores, this amendment would in fact prohibit the sale of plastic bottles.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u194	Amendments Nos 2 and 3 by Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde, which may be presented together, are defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u195	I fully support, of course, all that can create constraints, particularly economic ones: that is the meaning of this bill. Some felt that it was intended to introduce physical constraints related to sources of supply. No: it is above all by cutting the oil track that we will evolve the model. Another solution would be a very rapid and very strong increase in taxation. The committee rejected these amendments; In my personal capacity, I am in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u196	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u197	Again, the debate is very interesting even if the proposed proposal does not seem operational to me. It is not, first of all, because of the notion of "non-dissociable" material: this characteristic is not solely related to the product itself; It depends on collection, sorting and recycling technologies. In addition, the objective is not targeted. Indeed, the non-recyclability of a product is not necessarily linked to its multimaterial composition. It may not be recyclable because it is not well collected, because sorting centres are not suitable, because there are not enough deposits or because it contains substances that prevent its recycling. Finally, these amendments would aim at creating a new VAT regime, with a higher rate; And this reflection, as amateurs will have understood, should take place within the framework of the finance bill. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u198	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u199	Rather than punishing, it seems to me better to encourage, as we did with the recovery plan. I can cite the example of a company in the plastics industry that produced a container of fully recyclable plastic ice. One of its customers, a brand of large distribution, no longer wanted plastic containers, preferring cardboard because "green" sells much better. The company invented a cardboard container containing a plastic envelope – it is not possible to sell ice cream in cardboard, of course – but also the industrial process that allows it to separate the cardboard from the plastic, in order to make the whole recyclable. This innovative project was made possible by the recovery plan. Such encouragement of innovation seems preferable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u200	I have before me an amendment, No 16, to delete Article 2. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u201	Article 2, which Mrs Dalloz's amendment seeks to delete, runs counter to the national 3R strategy and its objectives. It does not bring any added value or long-term vision.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u202	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u203	Rule 2 was not voted on by the committee. Personally, I am against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u204	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u205	The national 3R strategy is being discussed as part of a broad process of co-construction with stakeholders; the draft strategy was sent to them last week for consultation, and will also be submitted for public consultation this week. In any event, I express an opinion against this radical amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u206	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u207	This is an amendment of consistency, which the committee did not consider.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u208	On Articles 4 and 5, as well as Amendments Nos 12, 22 and 6, I have a request from the Libertés et Territoires Group for a public vote. Votes are announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u209	Amendment No 11 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz, which seeks to delete Article 3, is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u210	Rule 3 was not voted on by the committee. Personally, I am against the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u211	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u212	This is again an amendment of consistency, which the committee rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u214	Consistency, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u215	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u216	Article 3 provides for the addition of a progressive timetable to the national strategy for the reduction, reuse and recycling of single-use packaging for the prohibition of various products derived from petrosoured plastic. But it does not foresee that this timetable should be drawn up in consultation with all the stakeholders involved – industry, local elected representatives, consumers and environmental associations – although this consultation is essential to respect the interests of everyone. This amendment, due to Mrs Dalloz, is intended to remedy this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u218	The amendment seems redundant to me with Article 2. There is also the spirit of Article 4 which, in relation to the general statements of the packaging, should therefore receive your support, my dear colleague. The committee has rejected the amendment, and I myself am against it for the reason I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u219	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u220	The amendment also seems to me to be satisfactory. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u221	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u222	This precise amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u223	I put Article 4 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u224	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 8 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u225	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 20 and 21, which can be presented in a consolidated format.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u226	These consistency amendments were rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u227	I put Rule 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u228	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 9 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u229	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor to support Amendment No 12, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u230	This amendment, together with my two following amendments, are requests for a report. In Amendment No 12, we call on the Government to submit to Parliament a report assessing the economic, environmental and social impacts of a ban on petroleum-based plastics. By Amendment No 8, we are asking for a report on the desirability of setting up a national plastic agency. Amendment No 17 seeks to establish a balance sheet of the quantities of plastic material placed on the market annually, their components and additives used mainly in their composition. Indeed, today we do not have specific tools to measure all this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u231	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u232	Before giving the committee's opinion on Mr Colombani's amendments, I too will defend in advance my amendments Nos 22 and 23, since they have the same objective. By Amendment No 22, I also propose that the Government submit to Parliament a report assessing the desirability of implementing a national plastic agency. I would like to remind you that this is a unanimous request from all the structures we have heard, with the exception of two of them, including the Ministry of Ecological Transition. On Wednesday, the Tara Ocean and Pure Ocean Foundations told us that such an agency was indispensable. My amendment No 23 is identical to Amendment No 17 by my colleague Paul-André Colombani. The committee rejects all these amendments, but I support them personally. We cannot get out of these debates without making any progress. The last measures adopted in this House to combat plastic pollution are more than two years old and the situation has worsened since – our colleague Philippe Gomès has just recalled how much it damaged corals. We cannot fail to act, knowing that we are at the end of the legislature and that we cannot resume this fight until the end of 2022 at the earliest, which is another lost year, one too many years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u233	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u234	You're asking us to assess the appropriateness of setting up a national plastic agency. Given the cross-cutting nature of ADEME's missions, it seems more relevant to me to define in the Agency's objective and performance contract (COP) these specific needs and tasks. Reflection on ADEME's new COP will begin in the first half of 2022. I am committed to ensuring that these missions are explicitly included in the ADEME COP. In addition, the newly established CNEC is intended to act as a forum for consultation and dialogue, following the model of the National Council for Ecological Transition, the CNTE. The whole purpose of this CNEC is precisely to put around the table all the actors, environmental, economic, business, civil society and all the intermediary bodies, who are represented in this forum to dialogue around these topics. This is indeed the place for this consultation and dialogue which you call for. As it stands, the opinion is therefore unfavourable on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u235	I put to the vote Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u236	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 9 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u237	I have before me two amendments, Nos 8 and 22, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Amendment No 8 by Mr Paul-André Colombani was therefore defended. Your amendment No 22 was also defended, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u238	Yes, Madam President, and I have already given the committee's opinion on Amendment No 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u239	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u240	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u241	I put Amendment No. 22 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u242	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 44 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 8 Against 34
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u243	The identical amendments No 17 by Mr Paul-André Colombani and 23 by the rapporteur were defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u244	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u245	Allow me to use a metaphor to describe the situation in which we are confronted with the scourge of plastic leaks in nature, just a few blocks from the end of the examination of this bill. She reminds me of the alcoholic's. His liver, kidneys, heart are affected, he knows it, but the addiction is too strong: he continues to ingest alcohol morning, noon and evening. Oh, of course, he has a plan to get out of his dependence on wine. He's already stopped drinking a fifth drink at noon, he's only drinking four more, but he's still drinking whiskey and then, here! He started drinking other alcohols, Chinese alcohols. That is the situation in which our society is located. It may consume less plastic for single use, but still more synthetic fibres, and the volume of our plastic waste is growing by 5% each year, with waste becoming smaller, increasingly dispersed and deadly to nature. My amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u246	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u247	Yes, the time is at work. A national strategy for the reduction, reuse and recycling of packaging is under way; A stakeholder consultation is under way, and the public consultation will be open next week. This strategy allows us to draw up a true state of affairs and, above all, to draw priorities for action on the basis of your work and your reflections, in order to lead to concrete measures that are easy to implement quickly, whether they are cross-cutting or sectoral. In order to establish this new state of affairs, we already have a very comprehensive body of reports, which provides us with a very comprehensive overview of these issues: I will mention, for the record, the report of the General Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development and the report of the General Council for the Economy, Industry, Energy and Technology on waste recycling in France, dated 2020. That is what leads me to give an unfavorable opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u248	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u249	It consists of a request for a report on the state of the plastic recycling sector in France, in particular with regard to research funding mobilized by the State in support of the sector and development prospects for the coming years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u251	The report on bio-sourced plastics which, under the AGEC Act, was to be presented to us on January 1, 2021, would have been very useful to us, Madam Secretary of State, but today, February 4, 2022, there is still no report on the horizon. I could list the long list of everything that is announced to us and never happens, and in the meantime, plastic leaks continue, nature dies and this plastic goes up the food chain to us. I can only conceive a few days from the end of the legislature, we are unable to live up to this issue, holding nothing, absolutely nothing, of this bill, not even amendments that are defended by others but that I support, such as this report requested at the moment by Isabelle Valentin and that would allow us to have some elements. You ask us to trust you: I would like to remind you that you do not even respect what the law imposes on you, that is to say to provide information to the national representative and to the French on biosourcés. This is just an example; There would still be a lot of other things to say, including how the implementing decrees emptied of its substance what we voted here to ban certain single-use plastic products. It would be a big mistake for us not to make any progress. The committee rejected this amendment. The rapporteur I am fully supports him personally, considering that we cannot leave this House without having made at least symbolic progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u252	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u253	Good news, which we can all welcome, this reflection is at work. ANSES is in charge of preparing this report and its first conclusions will be known later this year. The scope of his study is very broad, since the Agency studies the composition of biosourced and biodegradable plastics, the effectiveness of the degradation of these plastics into domestic composting and industrial composting, the identification of the effects associated with the ingestion of these plastics, as well as the microplastics resulting from their degradation. Your request is therefore largely satisfied: request for withdrawal and, if not, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u254	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u255	I find it a pity, Madam Secretary of State, that you do not communicate these reports to us. We have all said how sensitive we are to these critical issues, on which we need very precise data. I do not know what the work of ANSES will do, but it is difficult today to find precise data on the subject. That would have been a welcome gesture on the part of the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u256	I put Amendment No. 6 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u257	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 48 Number of votes cast 46 Absolute majority 24 For adoption 13 Against 33
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u258	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill itself is rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u259	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u260	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u261	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on combating financial exclusion and capping bank charges (No 4852, 4963).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u262	Mr Charles de Courson, rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, the General Economy and Budgetary Control, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u263	Madam President, Mr Secretary of State for the Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, ladies and gentlemen, during the public debate held in the National Assembly on 6 January 2022 on the ceiling on bank charges, the delegate minister responsible for the city, Ms Nadia Hai, stated that in the matter of "bank charges, France is not the Far West". That's not right! You all know the movie The Good, the bully and the hooker in which Clint Eastwood divided the world into two categories: those who have a loaded gun and those who dig their graves. In France, banks have a loaded pistol and their clients in difficulty dig their graves due to excessive fees and bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u264	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u265	Thus, every month, nearly 8 million of our citizens pay fees and bank charges. The amount of these costs could amount to €6 billion per year according to some consumer protection associations, but other estimates, particularly from the Directorate-General for the Treasury, refer to an amount closer to €3 billion – we don't know very well. This slight interval from simple to double, within which the truth must lie, is sufficient for us to question ourselves. However, we interviewed the French Banking Federation (FBF), but we did not get a precise answer on the amounts of bank charges collected. Fortunately for the French banks, their effectiveness in assessing this amount is inconvenient with their ability to imagine new commissions! According to the Court of Auditors' annual report 2021, there were 597 of them in 2019, which means that it has 225 more than eight years ago. Of course, the Freedom and Territory Group to which I belong loves diversity, but in terms of banking nomenclature, it seems to me to be against the good information of our fellow citizens. I will not have the cruelty to ask each and every one of you – especially you, Mr. Secretary of State – if you read, and especially if you understand, the document that banks send each year to their customers summarizing their rates. I prefer to express the optimistic wish that a contemporary Champollion will one day decipher these mysteries. I did the commission test: only two people raised their hands – and again, I didn't check if they really read everything or just a few lines. Rather than waiting for miracles, the legislator must take full advantage of his role. The debates in committee have shown that there is a broad consensus among the political movements on bank inclusion. However, the bank charges imposed on French and French people – particularly on the most precarious of them – constitute obstacles to the achievement of this objective. Of course, it is normal for banks to charge for their services, but it is not permissible for these costs to be disused, by being completely deconcerned with the actual cost of the services they are supposed to pay. Some consumer associations estimate that bank margin rates on intervention commissions exceed 50%. Admittedly, progress has been made in recent years in the area of banking inclusion: the law of 26 July 2013 on the separation and regulation of banking activities has led credit institutions to offer a specific offer to people in situations of financial fragility and has also enshrined the principle of capping. In the same vein, the agreement concluded between the State and the banking sector in 2018, although not binding, gave rise to certain commitments and new ceilings, the annual cost of which for banks is estimated by the Banque de France at the end of 2018, between EUR 500 and 600 million – a figure confirmed by the FBF. However, the results of the commitments made by the banks are insufficient and there are many circumventions. Thus, the trend is towards a general increase in fees, which is expected to increase further by an average of 2.5% in 2022: this is the harsh reality of what some call an "ambitious fee reduction policy"! This situation must alert us, especially in a difficult context marked by inflation and the crisis linked to the covid-19 pandemic which has increased insecurity. However, we have given a chance to dialogue between the public authorities and the banks: it has not been fruitful and we regret it. The Government was satisfied with a model in which Parliament would be kept out of the regulation of the banking sector and should be content with the information it would like to receive, which did not meet the expectations of the French. It is therefore necessary to take on our responsibilities and to legislate, because the law remains the best instrument to protect our fellow citizens – especially the most modest of them – from abusive practices. Colleagues, I am well aware that the issues related to bank charges are not a discovery to you: nine bills were tabled on this subject on the Bureau of the National Assembly during this Parliament. While this text broadly shares their spirit, the Libertés et territoires Group proposes to use two main levers to combat financial exclusion: an expanded and tougher framework for bank charges, and a better effectiveness of the right to account. Article 1 of the draft law aims to better regulate banking intervention commissions in order to reduce their costs for all citizens, while maintaining specific provisions for the most vulnerable, since the ceilings currently in force do not allow the burden of fees to be limited. It divides by two the limits of the intervention commissions for all clients, and divides it by four for the most precarious, i.e. about 700000 families or 2% of the population. I also tabled amendments to this bill in open session to regulate seizure and administrative seizure fees for third-party holders, which particularly affect vulnerable people. I will also propose to introduce a penalty for exceeding the ceilings in order to ensure compliance with the law. Indeed, what is a rule without sanction? There is no such thing. This is called incantatory legislation. In this respect, I would like to return to the main arguments that were opposed to us in committee in our discussions. Some regretted that we did not "focus our efforts on the most vulnerable"; The idea was also put forward that, in any case, banks would find ways of circumvention. It is precisely for these reasons that I have tabled an amendment aimed at introducing an overall ceiling for all bank charges, which will benefit the most vulnerable citizens – an amendment which the majority rejected in committee. I hope that the Government will revert to that position. In addition, Article 1 aims to include in the law the principle of drawing up an exhaustive list of the criteria for assessing financial fragility, a situation which currently affects 3.8 million people in France. These criteria would be set by decree, in order to neutralise the margins of appreciation of banks which all too often lead to breaches of equality. Indeed, if regulatory measures were to complement the criteria for assessing financial fragility in 2020, the Court of Auditors points out in its annual report 2021 that the heterogeneity of the criteria between banks remains.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u266	In line with the ceiling pursued by Article 1, Article 2 provides for the division by two of the costs associated with the rejection of cheques and any other payment incident for all customers, and to divide them by four for customers in situations of financial fragility. I would like to stress that these two articles will in no way nullify the progress already achieved; on the contrary, they will allow them to be deepened and clarify the rules for both customers and banking institutions. Finally, the objective of Article 3 is to ensure the effectiveness of the account entitlement procedure, which guarantees to all natural persons an account and a minimum banking service, ensuring that accounts are opened as soon as possible. While due diligence in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism is fully legitimate, it should not impede the opening of a deposit account for the beneficiaries of the right to the account. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] I would like us to discuss the rules governing bank charges and the difficulties faced by the applicants for the right to the account. Indeed, I am convinced that the legislator has an essential role to play in banking regulation: it is time to go beyond the commitments, and to include in the law the effective means of combating the financial exclusion that we propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u267	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u268	The Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications had the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u269	The Government shares your objective of preserving the financial situation of the French and their access to quality banking services, at appropriate rates – the majority has demonstrated this since 2017 and is paying particular attention to it at this time, when Parliament is considering Patricia Lemoine's proposal for a law on the borrower insurance market. However, we do not agree with the measures you propose to achieve this. These are of three types: a general cap on bank incident charges, a review of the criteria for identifying fragile persons, and changes in the account entitlement procedure. With regard to bank charges, which are the first part and the heart of your text, we need to debate the observation, because we do not fully share the state of affairs that you draw up. First, it seems to us economically justified for banks to charge for their services and possible incident charges. We understand, of course, that many French people consider any billing of fees to be excessive, but these incidents, which mostly correspond to an abnormal operation of the account, induce management costs and generate costs for the payee – who is usually not a bank, and who is not paid in the event of an incident. Secondly, it is important to recall this – and we differ with you on this point: French people benefit, on average, from a generally satisfactory level of invoicing of banking services. Bank charges have been declining since 2012, mainly as a result of digitalisation and increased competition in the banking market. In our European comparisons, we should not limit ourselves to the scope of bank charges alone, but to consider all services, including credit and savings. It will then be seen that their cost is lower in France than in other comparable European economies. Thirdly – as you have incidentally mentioned – the sector is already the subject of various regulations aimed at limiting abuses. For example, for all French people, certain banking services are free of charge, such as the monthly statement and the closing of accounts, and certain fees are capped, such as the rejection of cheques – at 30 or 50 euros depending on the amount –, the rejection of levies – at 20 euros – or intervention fees – at 8 euros per operation and 80 euros per month. In this context, your proposal to lower the limits of the different incident charges for all clients, including the most affluent ones, does not seem relevant to us. What is important, in our view, is not to re-establish a form of administrative framework for bank rates, but to protect those who need it. The current system, which provides for an overall cap on incident costs concentrated on the most vulnerable populations who need it most, is the best response to avoid the over-accumulation of costs and the spiral of debt. Since 2017, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, thanks in particular to the action of Bruno Le Maire, the Government has worked to build a mechanism that has since proved its worth. It has been developed, since 2018, in a partnership approach with banking institutions and consumer associations. I have heard your argument, Mr rapporteur, that an obligation must necessarily be accompanied by a sanction for the violators, but it seems to me that the indicator of the effectiveness of the above-mentioned provisions and of the Government's action lies in the results – we probably differ on them. In accordance with the commitments made by banking institutions in September and December before the President of the Republic, so-called fragile people now benefit from a global cap on their bank incident charges – this is far from negligible. I recall the amounts: 25 euros per month in total for fragile customers; 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year for fragile customers benefiting from the specific offer. We have therefore chosen to focus our action on those who really need it, rather than on the whole population. The Observatoire de l'inclusion bancaire (OIB), a public monitoring body for inclusion policies, has taken a very positive note of the actions taken by the Government. Let me mention some of the results: 3.2 million clients were considered financially fragile by the end of 2020, and therefore benefited from the capping of fees – an increase of 12% of beneficiaries. The average amount of fees charged by banks to their customers considered to be fragile is also decreasing, to €248 in 2020, a decrease of 18% compared to 2018. Reforms have reduced the amount of incident costs by 1.5 million people in 2020. Finally, the specific offer is diffused: there were 5,98715 beneficiaries at the end of 2020, 56% more than in 2018. In order to benefit from the ceiling, it is necessary to be legally regarded as a person in a situation of financial fragility. It is true that the detection criteria used in this regard were perfectable. Therefore, since 2018, the Government has been working to broaden the definition of fragile customers, so that more of our compatriots benefit from the shield against bank charges. The Government carried out a reform on this issue in 2020. From now on, France has a more proactive detection device – a customer is considered to be in financial fragility if five incidents occurred in his bank account during the same month – and more permanent – the customer is considered to be in this situation for a minimum of three months. The reform thus allows more French people to benefit from the ceiling on bank charges: as I have already indicated, the number of customers considered fragile has grown by 12% since 2019. It is true that in the system deployed by the Government, the income criterion, in order to qualify as a person in a situation of financial fragility, has not been harmonized by regulation, but left to the discretion of the banking institutions. It was important to leave a certain margin of appreciation to the banks, which had a fine knowledge of their customers. You propose to harmonize this criterion in the law, considering that the current latitude creates an inequality of treatment between the French, according to the bank of which they are customers. The Government does not consider such a measure useful because, in fact, the income levels retained by the establishments are very close to each other, at around 1500 or 1600 euros per month. Of course, all this can be verified and monitored, as the Government has demanded transparency from banking institutions as to the criteria they apply. Therefore, the measure you propose does not seem appropriate to us; It could even have counterproductive effects by excluding beneficiaries from the scheme if the threshold did not correspond to the highest level among banking institutions. Finally, the Government remains very committed to the account-rights procedure, which allows every Frenchman to have a bank account with free basic services, if he fails to open one in a commercial way. This is a key procedure in our banking inclusion policy, as it ensures that every Frenchman can be banked – a prerequisite for a normal economic life. It is therefore essential that this procedure can be activated quickly and effectively by those of our compatriots who need it. With this in mind, your bill puts forward two measures. The first is to allow victims of domestic violence to benefit from the right-to-account procedure, even if they already have a joint account. The Government fully supports this provision, to the extent that it is provided for in the Act of 24 December 2021 to accelerate economic and professional equality, known as the Rixain Act, in terms that we believe are broader than your proposal. Secondly, you propose to improve the efficiency of the procedure by means of a method which we do not think is applicable, as it is contrary to the European rule to which institutions must comply in the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism. However, be assured that the Government is fully mobilized to increase the effectiveness of the current procedure. A great deal of work has been done in this direction for 18 months by the Directorate-General of the Treasury, in connection with the Banque de France; It has already made it possible to identify several improvements, in order to make the procedure easier and faster to mobilise. We will apply them. One of these improvements was at the legislative level: this is the measure provided for by the Rixain Act, which I have just mentioned. The others, of a regulatory nature, will soon enter into force; they are being examined by the Council of State. In total, these measures will strengthen the procedure in a way that we believe is broader and more relevant than your proposed legislation. The French, households and businesses, have the chance to be able to rely on a strong and robust banking system, which effectively finances the economy – it has demonstrated during the current crisis – and which applies generally reasonable costs in comparison with European countries. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In recent years, the Government has acted decisively to further strengthen the control of bank charges, with the objective and priority of better protecting those for whom State intervention is needed, i.e. those in situations of financial fragility. The results are there; I just told you. These advances have been made in a partnership approach with the banking sector, which we believe is a guarantee of long-term success. The Government will maintain its vigilance and demand in its dialogue with banks, and will carry out reforms when necessary; We believe that the measures which have been implemented so far have already made it possible to reach a satisfactory balance. That is why the Government will issue an unfavorable opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u270	In the general debate, Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u271	Who would dare say that the current bank charge cap is satisfactory? No one except, maybe you and the banks, Mr. Secretary of State. Who can find the free play of competition and the commitments of banks satisfactory? On the contrary, the costs have increased this year, while the banks have made so many profits during the crisis. In our societies, access to an account and basic banking services is an essential service. It must be guaranteed to all in an equitable manner, but also at an affordable price. However, this is not the case: 8 million French, that is, most of our compatriots, pay excessive banking commissions every month; Of these, 3.8 million are in financial fragility. The Government's argument, which was repeated a few moments ago, was not satisfactory: it was to say that it was legitimate for banks to charge commissions for the amount of their choice for the services they offered, and that a new legislation on the subject was therefore unnecessary. Why don't you explain it to the French? The problem is not the existence of fees, but their right level: it is abnormally high, among the highest in Europe. The amounts invoiced by the banks are completely decorated with the real cost of the transactions they are supposed to compensate – anyone who has already looked at their account statement knows that. For too many banks, these fees have become a pool of resources, particularly profitable. I would add that some of these costs are tantamount to sanctions against the most precarious people who want to be excluded. We must therefore first and foremost combat excesses and abuses, which weigh increasingly heavily on French households. In France, this cascade of costs would amount to €6.7 billion, according to UFC-Que choix. To those who dispute this figure, I answer that it is up to the banks to play the game of transparency and publish their data. In the face of this situation, what should we do? The majority calls on us to keep our arms crossed, to allow competition to play a free part, to be content with the moral commitments of the institutions. I have heard the following arguments in committee: let's not regulate, the banks have made commitments, let's not legislate... All this at a time when the very rich are getting richer and the middle and poorest classes are seeing the train pass. Ladies and gentlemen, I never thought that public authorities should interfere with everything, neither did Charles de Courson. However, I believe that we are dealing with abuses and circumventions. We need to take responsibility, act and legislate. I think so all the more so as I remember that, in this same House, at the beginning of January, in a debate on the subject, all the groups without exception had recognised the flaws of the current system of ceilings for bank charges. There is, of course, a cap on these costs defined by law, but it is so incomplete, so vague, so loose that it hardly serves any purpose. With this balanced and serious text, we propose the long-term and effective protection of all the poorest customers and audiences. Is it original? Are we the only country that wants to do this? No, many countries have done so, including the United States, which, to my knowledge, is not a communist country. Since the end of 2021, as by enchantment, bank charges have begun to decrease across the Atlantic. Why? This sudden decision is not the result of a spontaneous will of the US banks, but of the determination of the Biden administration and its Office of Consumer Protection in financial matters – in English, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In the United States, the results have not been delayed: the fee for a cheque issued from an underfunded account is being divided by three in the less virtuous banks, from $35 to $10. I would remind you that in France the ceiling is between 30 and 50 euros depending on the amount of the cheque. Look for the mistake! And it is not to mention the banks that add to it by billing again the sending of an information letter and the agios. This shift clearly demonstrates the abuses. It is up to us to have legislation that is finally ambitious and protective. I will of course not go back to the details of the provisions that were perfectly presented by Charles de Courson, whom I thank for his commitment. However, I will insist on the great advances that we are defending. First of all, this law will allow for a generalisation and a strengthening of the ceiling on bank charges, all bank charges without exception. It will therefore no longer be possible for banks to escape these limits by inventing new appellations – there are more than 500 appellations in France. We propose to divide by two all costs for all customers and by four for fragile customers. We clarify the classification of customers in situations of financial fragility because, as you may know, if the category of customers in situations of financial fragility exists, it is subject to the free appreciation of the banks. The same categories are therefore recognized as fragile by some institutions and not by others. We finally ask the banks to apply a law with so many holes in the racket that everyone passes through these devices. That's not acceptable. The same criteria must, of course, be imposed on those who benefit from the appropriate tariffs. That is common sense, and that is what we want to do. So, with the limits we set, we're making sure that banks can't catch up with other costs. The Liberties and Territories Group has also tabled amendments following the hearings conducted by our rapporteur and the examination in the Committee on Finance in order to strengthen our arsenal of fight against bank charges. I think, in particular, of the costs of succession, which are sometimes called "the commissions of death". Some banks collect up to 300 euros per inheritance. Again, this is much more than in our European neighbours. The average fee is 80 euros in Spain and 107 euros in Belgium. We therefore want to set a ceiling to return to a European average. Finally, we propose to improve the procedure of the right to account. While everyone has the right to open an account in three days, as provided by law, this procedure currently takes two weeks. According to the Court of Auditors, these delays are linked to the legal obligations imposed on banks. However, discussions with the Treasury and the Banque de France have still not led to a solution. We therefore propose a balanced mechanism to ensure the effectiveness of this right for all French people. Ladies and gentlemen, you will have understood that the Freedom and Territory Group is proposing that you take concrete action. To vote against this text would be to affirm that everything is well; To vote in favour is to return to our fellow citizens several billions of euros unduly collected. At a time when the question of inflation and the purchasing power of the French is seriously raised, we have the power to do justice. Let's not be afraid to regulate banking activities! Do you know, Mr. Secretary of State, who said that every banker should be placed on probation? He is a former President of the Republic, the very moderate Raymond Poincaré, President of the Council during the crisis of 1928, born in Bar-le-Duc and died in the department of the Meuse. Some 90 years later, it would be good if we could begin to remember it. We do not defend the same capitalism, we do not defend that of laissez-faire and of letting go in all the circumstances. We believe in the market economy, but in a regulated economy when there are abuses, and there are always abuses of competition, abuse of dominant position or unlimited gain. I hope that this bill will give rise to a real debate. In any case, I note with great satisfaction that this debate was already under way, in particular through the media and through our action. I hope that we will move forward on this important issue for all French people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u272	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u273	Thank you, Mr rapporteur, because you have a modestly important debate. A year ago, the group La France insoumise presented a text addressing little or no the same theme, and others before me had done so. It seems to me important, a little like the vampires are disappearing according to legend, that the light be shed on this scandal of bank charges because it is a pure scandal. When I introduced, in June 2020, a bill to cap bank charges, as part of a parliamentary niche, six out of ten groups had supported it. That is to say, the extent to which there was a general form of agreement, certainly with different assessments. Even the Government and the majority group agreed, somewhat like today, that no one could deny that there was a scandal. That's what associations like UFC-Que choix had pointed out. How high is the scandal? We estimate it, as some associations say, to be 7 billion, 8 billion, 6.5 billion. Some even estimate that 10 billion euros are punctuated each year to our fellow citizens. In preparing my bill, I had received the federations of banking institutions that thought I was exaggerating, and I had responded by asking them how much they estimated the bank charges. The directors had told us that they did not know, that they could not calculate them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u274	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u275	Is that credible? Can we hear the banks say they don't know? Who can seriously believe that bank managers were unable to provide any balance sheet each year? We have to impose on banks that they say how much bank charges are levied each year so that we can debate them. That was what was in my bill. We sometimes talk about 10 billion, as my colleague said before me. While we know the difficulties some French people are currently encountering in terms of purchasing power due to too low wages, how can we accept that private groups take up such sums? What are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that to inform you that you made a check while you were out of print, the letter sent to you is sometimes invoiced 17 or 18 euros, or even 20 euros, whereas, according to the trade unions I met, it costs three or four cents since it is a bank agent who sends it to you with a simple click. How can we accept such a theft, such an unjust form of private tax? On what right? How can you not tell the banks that they are not entitled to charge at such a high level the simple transaction that consists of an agent clicking to send you a letter that informs you that you are out of print, what you already know? We must therefore act. Mr Secretary of State, when I had the honour of presenting my bill, Bruno Le Maire, the Minister of Economy, Finance and Recovery, who was sitting in your place, replied to me, basically: Mr Corbière, we agree on everything except on one point, the method. You want to legislate, he told me, I want to convince the banks. And he added: my method is better and you will see the effect it will have. And if it doesn't work, he concluded, I'll come back here to legislate. Today, it is not a text of La France insoumée that is presented to you, but a text of Courson, if I may say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u276	It's a text from the group!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u277	...and his group, which allows, in a certain way, to take the minister's word. What's happened since then? Bank charges have continued to increase: it is estimated that they have increased at least tenfold since 2008. In 2022, they appear to have increased by 2.5%, and 3.8 million people in difficulty are affected. I take this opportunity to respond to your argument of the 600,000 people affected by the specific device that you have impulsed. Let us be clear: why do banks agree that so-called fragile customers are subject to a particular arrangement? Because, to put it trivially, the lemon has been so pressed that these customers no longer have any money, and the banks can't go any further. Indeed, they agree that this should stop. Anyway, they won't puncture anything more. However, all the others who are not considered by the banks to be in a fragile situation, such as the middle classes, those who are not yet in the abyss, but to whom intolerable sums are punctured. That is why we must end this system of categories and cap bank charges according to clear rules that apply to everyone. Earlier, Mr. Secretary of State, you said that with your system, even the most affluent customers would enter into a system that capped bank charges. That's the big deal. Learn that affluent customers never pay bank charges.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u278	That's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u279	Some of my friends who are wealthy have even told me that not only do the banks not charge them anything but, to keep their customers, they also remove the bank fees of the children of the wealthy customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u280	We've got to close!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u281	That is why we will be presenting amendments that clarify the few points of disagreement that we have on the text. In any case, I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for putting this debate. Let's legislate because it's time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u282	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u283	The shareholders of our dear banks can rub their hands: in 2022, the banking sector will have to pay around 80 billion euros to Europe in distribution of dividends and stock buybacks. A record since 2008. It is the return to opulence in some way, but for groups that have not suffered the crisis. Despite the tumults of early 2020 in financial markets, banks have strengthened, operating risk-free loans with state guarantees and still taking advantage of billions of liquidity spilled by the European Central Bank to speculate. However, as a small complement is still needed, banks ensure that safe and regular yields are consolidated. In this small game, it is often the modest households, those who hold small accounts, those who are "nothing", those who have no choice but to pay that are charged. The consumer association CLCV – Consumer, Housing, Living Environment – predicts that by 2022 bank charges will rise by 2.5%, a rise similar to that of 2021 and, of course, higher than expected inflation. Among all these costs, some are notoriously perverse and are an integral part of the banks' business model: these are the costs associated with incidents and irregularities in the bank account's operations. According to the National Consumer Institute, each year they would amount to €6.5 billion. It is a real pactole taken from the misery of people, first in the form of intervention commissions, which apply as soon as a payment exceeds the authorized overdraft. Banks ensure, and any slippage – even minimal – results in the application of these commissions and determines the acceptance or refusal of payment. If accepted, then apply debtor interests, the famous agios; If it is refused, it is the costs of rejection. Each time, these fees are added to the intervention commissions, plus the costs associated with the newsletters. In short, the punctures accumulate in cascade. Quickly, the gear shifts some modest households, on the wire at the end of the month, into the spiral of over-indebtedness. In the face of these practices, it is up to the State to protect households from banks, which arrogates the right to levy what is like genuine private taxes. Existing measures are insufficient, both in form and substance. In terms of form, they are so diverse that they are often poorly or poorly applied: controls are very limited and sanctions do not exist. It should be added that 78% of people in debt or under a bank ban do not benefit from any cap while they should automatically be entitled to it. While the year 2022 is marked by high inflation, which degrades purchasing power and increases and increases in poverty, it is absolutely necessary to tighten the ceiling on bank charges, which account for 2.1 per cent of the budget of modest households. The purpose of the proposed law is precisely to strengthen the scope of the caps, by including them directly in the text. Indeed, commitments, which are not implemented, and incentives, which are more like incantations because they are ineffective, are no longer sufficient. In addition, we are proposed to significantly reduce the existing ceilings, for the general public as well as for people in financial fragility. In order to better characterize this situation, the text clarifies the criteria; it is a necessity, knowing that the "fragile customer" offer concerns barely 500,000 people. Finally, we welcome the initiative to strengthen the right to account. By correcting certain elements of the procedure for enforcing legal deadlines, the last article of the text is particularly commendable and consensual, and we hope that it will be better off today than when it is examined in committee. [[Rites and exclamations on many benches]] In short, the GDR Group will of course support the whole of this bill, which aims to protect modest households from the voracious appetite of the banking sector. I thank Charles-Amédée de Courson and the Libertés et territoires group for submitting this text. For those interested, L'Humanité makes appear in today's issue a very beautiful portrait of M. de Courson in connection with the issue of bank charges – a portrait entitled "Charles-Amédée de Courson, the Republican aristocrat"!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u284	And the libertarian!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u285	That's a good reason to subscribe to Humanity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u286	What a talent! Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u287	In the preamble, let me return to the bank inclusion policy that has been in place since the beginning of the legislature. In September and December 2018, under the leadership of the President of the Republic and the Minister of the Economy, banks were asked to introduce a ceiling on bank charges for persons recognised as financially fragile; it amounts to EUR 20 per month for the holders of the specific offer, and EUR 25 for the others. Then, in February 2020, in order to homogenise the criteria for detecting financial fragility, the Minister of the Economy asked banks to publish the criteria they used. On 20 July 2020, a decree specified the modalities for entering the so-called category of financial fragility, where, for example, the criterion of "five irregularities or incidents in the same month" can be found. In the wake of this decree, the charter of AFECEI – the French Association of Credit Institutions and Investment Companies – which lists the banks' commitments to protect fragile customers, was rewritten in September 2020 in order to integrate the new commitments made. I would point out that compliance with this Charter gives rise to an annual review by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority (PRCA). I will conclude by referring to two amendments that I defended in the last finance bill and which, with the approval of the Government, will strengthen the preventive aspect of our bank inclusion policy. The first is an experiment within the budget advisory points in order to detect people who are potentially fragile faster through the mobilisation of banks and other actors in the economic and social sphere. The second aims to abound the Social Cohesion Fund, which guarantees the granting of microcredit, with the aim of increasing its dissemination. In short, throughout the legislature, we have sought to better protect the most fragile and strengthen their support. These advances have been made in consultation with banks, some of which have understood the issue of protecting the most modest ones. Let me turn to the main points of the bill. First of all, I note that you want to go through the law to define financial fragility and change the method that has prevailed so far. Let us recognize, however, that contracting with banks offers some flexibility, allowing us to return to the subject on multiple occasions and to make rapid changes, as in the decree of 20 July 2020 – in the midst of a pandemic, while the health and economic situation of a number of our fellow citizens required prompt action; The law probably wouldn't have made it that fast. I also note that your proposal is not limited to the protection of the most vulnerable customers. You are proposing to lower the ceiling on incident charges and banking operations for all households, thus taking note of the inefficiency of the competitive banking market. I am not convinced that the reduction in the ceiling will render purchasing power to households, because nothing will prevent the banks – as you yourself acknowledge in the explanatory memorandum – from offsetting this decrease by increasing other costs; This is the so-called cross-pricing practice. With regard to banking protection for those most vulnerable to fragility, you propose to implement an overall ceiling for all operations. I fear that this proposal, drawn up without prior consultation with the banks, will actually lead them to give up carrying out these transactions on behalf of their customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u288	This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u289	Moreover, I am not sure whether it is by offering almost free of charge these operations that the population will be better protected. For my part, I believe that we need to do more in the area of financial education. On the other hand, I agree with you that certain operations should be better supervised, including the application of costs in succession. In my view, however, this topic should be included in a broader reflection on the issue of succession. I also agree with you that we must give financial fragility a stable and identical definition for all banks. The income criterion, if it seems to converge around 1500 euros, remains at the discretion of the banks. Before we freeze it in the law, we must admit that we still need to document ourselves on this issue. I will conclude by drawing up some ideas for improving our banking inclusion strategy. We should act more proactively in order to better disseminate the specific offer, which is the par excellence tool of banking inclusion. It would seem to me appropriate to enrich the content of this document; It is a pity that there is no such thing in your text. Similarly, I believe it is urgent to further open the focal point for the detection of fragile people. There are still several blind spots, particularly for self-entrepreneurs. On this point, I suggest that the cost of banking services for the self-employed be further documented. Finally, I feel that we need to pay particular attention to the evolution of new consumption patterns, in particular deferred payments, which, without supervision, could lead more people to fragility and over-indebtedness. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] For all these reasons, the La République group is in the process of voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u290	Mr. Patrick Loiseau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u291	I thank our colleague Charles de Courson for allowing us to debate his bill because it gives us the opportunity to recall what has been achieved in this area over the last five years. And we will see very quickly that this proposal is superfate. First of all, it deals with the issue of capping bank charges. However, since 2017, we have embarked on an ambitious policy of reducing bank charges, particularly targeting those of our fellow citizens who are the most financially fragile. Under the leadership of the President of the Republic and after a long process of consultation, the costs of bank incidents were capped at 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year for the beneficiaries of the specific offer reserved for the fragile customers. More importantly, as this affects 3 million people, banks have agreed to limit these costs to 25 euros per month for all customers who may benefit from the specific offer but have not wished to subscribe to it for various reasons. Initial assessments by the OIB show that this policy is already bearing fruit. The proposed law aims to go further by reducing the costs of customers who have subscribed to the specific offer and by capping the costs of incidents to 40 euros per month for all households. Just fight, Mr rapporteur, but in our opinion, his target is missing. As the OIB points out and as our colleague Philippe Chassating, a specialist on this subject, has pointed out, we should make the improvement of the detection of people in situations of bank fragility our main battlehorse, in order to protect them even better. In 2020, we were able to define this category further, creating a presumption of financial fragility in the event of an over-indebtedness procedure. But other presumptive criteria could be provided. Further work is needed to improve the effectiveness of this policy. I think, Mr. Secretary of State, of the consultations that your administrations are carrying out with the large companies to reduce the costs of incidents related to the discharges of levies, working on systems for the exchange of data between banks and large companies such as Orange, Engie or EDF. We hope that this work will be completed as soon as possible. Other avenues could be explored, such as the establishment by banks of free prevention devices, e.g. SMS warning devices or on modern phone applications, in the event of payment that could result in a bank incident with the associated costs. On the other hand, the main advances in this area are not the result of new laws that we could have voted on in the House. They are the result of extensive consultation with stakeholders – government, regulators, consumers and banking institutions. They were the subject of voluntary commitments by the banks and then of control by the regulator. The lines of work I have just outlined, perhaps even more so than the progress already made, must also be the subject of such discussions and commitments. Adopting this bill as it stands, in a completely unilateral way, could put an end to the confidence in which these consultations take place and lead the banks to put an end to it, or even to reverse certain commitments, such as the ceiling on costs of 25 euros per month for all customers eligible for the specific offer – they would then end up in the ordinary customer category, with a maximum fee of 40 euros per month. Admit it would be a funny idea! With regard to the second part of the text on the right to account, half of the work was done. The proposed Rixain law allows any holder of a joint account to open an individual account in the context of the right-to-account procedure, even in the absence of domestic violence. I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work done in this regard by Members of Parliament and senators, particularly our colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain, chair of the delegation on women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, who defended this very important text. We agree with you on the issue of coordination between anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing mechanisms and the right to account. However, in these matters so sensitive to national security, we cannot legislate without an impact assessment that provides an in-depth analysis of the issues. Nor can we exempt ourselves from wider consultation with banking players, but also – and above all – with regulators, judicial authorities and intelligence services. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] While welcoming the spirit behind it, Members of the Group of the Party of European Socialists will oppose this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u292	Mrs Claudia Rouaux has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u293	The fight against financial exclusion and the capping of bank charges is an objective shared by the Socialist and Related Group. Better protection of people in difficulty or financial fragility is a moral imperative. According to the Court of Auditors' 2021 annual public report, 3.4 million people benefited from the incident cost cap scheme at the end of 2019, while 512000 of our fellow citizens had subscribed to the specific offer. This social reality is part of a context marked by the consequences of the health crisis as well as an inflationary surge. The purchasing power is rightly one of the priorities of the French. According to data published by INSEE on 1 February 2022, consumer prices rose 2.9% in France between January 2021 and January 2022. Inflation does not save bank charges. According to the Bank Rate Observatory, account-keeping charges have exploded by 167 % since 2012. According to Panorabanks, a comparison of online banks, withdrawal charges made outside the network of agencies of its own bank will increase by an average of 39% this year, while the movement to reduce the number of agencies and distributors continues, which poses a risk of bank desertification. In order to guarantee banking inclusion and protect the most fragile customers, it is important to highlight the progress made in the introduction of the right to the account in 1984 or in the capping of intervention fees in the event of excesses of the authorized overdraft thanks to the law on separation and regulation of banking activities of 2013. However, more needs to be done. It is the meaning of this bill that includes several advances. It provides for the reduction of part of the intervention commissions in Article 1 ; the bank charges applicable to the rejection of a cheque without provision and other payment incidents, in Article 2 ; It introduces ceilings, in particular for people in financial fragility. It is regrettable, however, that agios or other costs such as the cost of exceeding the number of permitted withdrawals or the cost of keeping accounts have not been included. Harmonising the definition of financial fragility is necessary to strengthen equal treatment. The flexibility currently left to banks to identify customers in this situation is not a good way to ensure this equality between potential beneficiaries. By being more restrictive on these criteria, some banks can push towards the exit of fragile customers – I will come back about La Poste. The aim of this text is to improve the procedure of the right to account, in particular for persons who are victims of domestic violence. Today, the average time to open an account is more than ten days, which is too long in emergency situations. However, we do not agree with what the text currently provides: to benefit from the right to the individual account, victims would have to justify their status as victims of domestic violence. The right to the account must be personal. In addition, in order to protect victims, steps to transform an undivided account into an undivided account should be simplified, while limiting the applicable fees. To complement these advances, our group is proposing two amendments. The first, at the initiative of Christine Pires Beaune, aims to regulate bank charges on estates, so that they are calculated on the basis of the actual costs borne by the banks. A recent study of UFC -What to choose estimates the revenue from these costs at 150 million euros per year, ranging from simple to quadruple depending on the institutions, which often charge lump sums penalizing the smallest estates. The second, on the initiative of my colleague Jean-Louis Bricout, aims to ask for a report on the bank's obligations to vulnerable audiences. The La Poste Group, which assumes these tasks, including that of access to banking exclusively, with insufficient compensation from the State, has alerted us to this issue. [[Mr. Stéphane Peu applause]] The Socialist and Related Group will vote in favour of this text to strengthen banking inclusion and the protection of the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u294	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u295	First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of the Libertés et territoires Group, Bertrand Pancher, and the rapporteur, Charles de Courson, for this bill, which allows us once again to address the issue of financial exclusion and the capping of bank charges. Since the beginning of the legislature, we have had the opportunity to address these issues on a number of occasions, whether in the form of debate during weeks of review or the consideration of bills as we are currently doing. These issues are, as several speakers have said before me, crucial for many French people, who are sometimes charged a large bank fee, at the risk of aggravating an already fragile financial situation. It is in this sense that the presidential majority has worked since 2017, around the President of the Republic, to achieve concrete results and create a protective framework for the most financially fragile people. In 2018, at the request of the President of the Republic, the banks made a commitment to cap the costs of bank incidents for all customers in fragile situations. Since 2019, they have been capped at 25 euros per month for people in fragile situations. This ceiling even falls to €20 for customers who have subscribed to the specific offer open to people in financial fragility. The first figures that go back to the ground show that the path of consultation is bearing fruit. In its annual report published in June 2021 cited by Patrick Loiseau, the Observatory of Banking Inclusion tells us that the average annual amount of all account fees for fragile customers has decreased by 18% in two years. The annual average amount of incident charges decreased by 5% in one year for fragile customers and by 17% for those who benefit from the specific offer. Of course, much remains to be done. We join you in saying that we need to go further because bank charges of 20 or 25 euros for a person in a situation of financial fragility represent an extremely important burden, which can fuel a vicious circle. First of all, people in fragile situations need to be better identified. Important efforts have already been made – I would like to acknowledge the remarkable work of all the actors involved in banking inclusion schemes, including associative actors. We all want to move towards an even greater reduction in bank charges. The central question is how this can be achieved: the law, as you propose, or conciliation, the method chosen for the past four years. This is a real debate, and all arguments must be heard. Above all, we believe that this text could and perhaps should have focused more specifically on those in situations of great financial insecurity, which must be our priority. Finally, of course, we share your willingness to allow victims of domestic violence to benefit from the right-to-account procedure, even if they already have a joint account. We therefore believe that we have already included a provision to this effect in the Act of 24 December 2021 aimed at accelerating economic and professional equality. As for the simplification of the list of documents to be transmitted in order to open the account in the context of the account procedure, the idea seems to us to be commendable, but it is more a matter of regulatory power than of law. For all these reasons, the Action Together Group will remain, as in committee, reserved on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u296	Before turning to the next speaker, I should like to inform the House that, on Article 1, Article 2, Amendment No 14, Amendment No 10 and on the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Liberties and Territories Group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u297	The draft law raises the question of the effectiveness of the mechanisms for regulating bank charges, particularly for the most vulnerable customers, and proposes new mechanisms. We have repeatedly addressed the issue of bank charges, but we are talking about it a lot without any real influence from these speeches, as these charges have increased by 2.5% again this year. Incident costs cost French banks an annual turnover of 6.5 billion euros and profits of 4.9 billion. In 2017, bank charges averaged 193 euros. In 2019, despite the adoption of certain measures, the French paid an average of 215 euros in bank charges. We see that the slide continues and even accelerates. Incident costs incurred by users in financial vulnerable situations average EUR 296 – for me, this is the most significant figure – while they average EUR 34 for the population as a whole: as always, exclusion leads to exclusion. The victims – as you know – are both the beneficiaries of social minimums as well as employees or pensioners. They are not thugs on the run but citizens who encounter some difficulties in their daily lives. It must be admitted that cascade billings have no educational virtue – if they had such an effect, the situation would have improved for a long time! They help to degrade the image of the banking system and exacerbate conflicts between users and banks. In addition, digital development reduces costs and dehumanizes the relationship between the customer and the bank. As we all discussed on 6 January 2022, France is one of the countries of the European Union with the highest bank charges. This bill is quite relevant. It lays down the principle of a ceiling for all, while maintaining a specific protection for the most fragile. We believe that the legislator has every legitimacy to intervene in this matter. In particular, the right to the account is an essential service, it is the minimum of what the State must guarantee to all citizens. Improving the protection of victims of domestic violence in this context seems highly desirable to us, and we welcome the rapporteur's work on this subject. Finally, I cannot finish this speech without talking about a subject that I have long been interested in: the bank charges applicable in the French communities of the Pacific. Ten years ago, these costs were two to ten times higher than those in Hexagon. It took no less than four laws to establish the objective of convergence of the sixteen basic banking rates practised in the French communities of the Pacific and in Hexagon: the Law of 20 November 2012 on Overseas Economic Regulation, the Law of 26 July 2013 on Separation and Regulation of Banking Activities, the Law of 15 November 2013 on various provisions relating to overseas and the Law of 28 February 2017 on Programming on Real Equality Overseas. The timetable set for the completion of this convergence in 2020. An annual moderation agreement is signed in New Caledonia between the High Commissioner of the Republic and financial institutions to ensure that this convergence, which is the ultimate objective, is effective. If this agreement is not reached, the High Commissioner may set the basic banking tariffs with authority, a regulatory capacity given to him by the rightly inspired legislator. However, in the last moderation agreement signed on 30 December 2021, two tariffs are substantially different from the hexagonal amounts. This is, on the one hand, the tariff for subscription to remote banking services, which is free of charge in 97 per cent of the hexagonal banking establishments but paying in New Caledonia, and, on the other hand, the tariff for the establishment of a debit mandate which is twenty times higher in New Caledonia: 286 MFF for an average of 15 MFF in metropolitan France. It is clear that the convergence that was to be completed in 2020 is, alas, not yet. Article L. 743-2-2 of the Monetary and Financial Code explicitly states that negotiations must be conducted "as a matter of priority" on the tariffs which have the greatest differences between what is applicable in metropolitan France and in the French communities of the Pacific. According to the same article, a bank cannot charge in New Caledonia higher rates than it does in metropolitan France. I have referred the matter to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, and it is essential that I get a reply on the illegal provisions of the December moderation agreement! The IDU and independent group will support our excellent colleague's bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u298	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u299	Mr Aurélien Taché has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u300	Banking insecurity is a considerable social problem. Worse, it's a vector of impoverishment; It prevents certain populations from acquiring goods necessary for their dignity, quite simply. No, as I have heard from some colleagues who display ulcerative cynicism, fighting against the exclusion of credit, it is not allowing popular classes to buy iPhones or iPads instead of paying their bills. Fighting bank exclusion means giving some of us access to devices from which they are excluded and to which they are entitled. Article 3 of the 1958 Constitution states: "National sovereignty belongs to the people, who exercise it through their representatives and through the referendum. That is to give the decision-making power to the parliamentarians we are. But who decides in banking matters? The freedom of capital, the cruel lack of regulation give the power to banking and financial institutions to decide rules contrary to equal rights. "Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. Social distinctions can only be based on common utility." Well, ladies and gentlemen, for banking and financial institutions, we have to understand: "Men are born forced and unequal in terms of access to credit, and social distinctions can only be based on the size of the account you want to open at home. » Access to credit is a question of equality between our citizens, but also the question of access for these people to the creation of a heritage. Thomas Piketty, a great economist – I do not agree with everything he tells, but he says interesting things, especially on this subject – for years now alerts us to the inequalities of wealth and their consequences in economic matters. This bill is smart; It would allow us to finally restore a little equality between our fellow citizens. They've been asking for it for so long! It also gives us the opportunity to put a stop to the banking laissez-faire, which I say, to banking anarchy, to the law of the strongest, to the real state of banking nature in which we currently live. Yes, it is an intelligent text, which for once is really interested in the most fragile, those who need us. I am sorry to stress this, but between the decline in personal assistance for housing (APL) and the abolition of the solidarity tax on wealth (ISF), it must be admitted that the attention of the Government and many of our parliamentarians to the most vulnerable is not common in this House. This text addresses a deeply unfair, unequal and scandalous situation. It also creates a specific exception for victims of domestic violence, who were denied access to the right-to-account procedure when they had an account with their husbands. I am proud that this action, which I welcome, is being proposed. I know that voting for such a text calls for courage for a majority who supports a President of the Republic whose cynicism exceeds understanding, a President of the Republic who intends to solve the difficulties of millions of French by the theory of runoff – understand the inaction and gifts to the most favored –, a President of the Republic above ground convinced that it is by crossing the street that we find work! [[Bertrand Pancher applauds]] Our colleague Charles de Courson's bill would at least give our fellow citizens access to credit. I propose to vote on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u301	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u302	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u303	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u304	With this amendment, we propose to replace the reduction in the ceilings proposed here by the creation of a new ceiling incorporating all the operations which have not so far been capped. This is a position that we have already defended in the context of our bill to cap bank charges. We therefore wish to strengthen the framework proposed in this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u305	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u306	You are proposing to create a cap on all bank charges, a provision that you included in your bill on the subject. I understand and share your idea: it seems to me quite desirable. However, would a global cap be compatible with the constitutional principle of freedom to undertake? As various speakers have said, notably Philippe Chassating, this constitutional obstacle is not valid if we focus our remarks on the most fragile audiences – which I will propose to you to do. The committee is against your amendment; I am, too, for this reason of constitutionality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u307	I put Article 1 to the vote. Mr rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State, can you clarify your views?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u308	The committee voted against; In my personal capacity, as the author of the text, I am of course in favour of it...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u309	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u310	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 36 Number of votes cast 36 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 11 Against 25
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u311	I call Mr Corbière to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u312	The Monetary and Financial Code provides that "the management of a deposit account for natural persons acting for professional purposes shall be governed by a written agreement [...] between the customer and his credit institution", but does not provide for any specific cap on bank incident charges for this category of bank customers. Yet self-employed and self-employed workers are professionals, but above all natural persons. We therefore propose to allow them to benefit from the ceiling on bank incident charges. We regularly see businesses in our ridings threatened by the unacceptable level of fees imposed by banking institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u313	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u314	Our colleague's amendment applies the existing fee limits to professional accounts. The problem you raise is very real: individual entrepreneurs most often have a unique, individual and professional account. We had discussed in committee the exclusion of professionals from the capping rules. The main question posed by bank charges is their decontrolation of the actual cost of the services they are supposed to finance: it is independent of the nature of the account, whether professional or individual. I had already pointed out in committee that your idea, Mr Corbière, seemed to me full of common sense. I continue to think so and will therefore be in favour of your amendment. However, it was rejected by the committee. Our colleague Chassating, in particular, has raised the same problem. It would make sense to also cap the costs of those who have a single account, both personal and professional.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u315	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u316	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u317	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u318	I regret the absence of a response from the Government. I have heard Mr Le Maire welcome the large number of businesses that have been set up in recent times: but they are often micro-enterprises, to whom bank charges pose real problems. We would have a real interest, we all see it on the ground, dating traders, in dealing with this issue. It's a real problem. There must be no loopholes in our device. In short, it is a pity that the Secretary of State did not take the time for the exchange. Let's move on!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u319	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u320	I am not opposed in substance to this proposal, but we still lack documentation. A report showed that the costs for self-employed workers were not so exorbitant. Before we put such a provision in the law, we need to find out better. The Group of the European People's Party will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u321	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u322	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 42 Number of votes cast 42 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 11 Against 31
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u323	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 14 and 15, which can be presented together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u324	Several of our colleagues have said that only part of the fees and commissions are currently capped. The Court of Auditors raised the issue in its latest annual report. Thus, banking agios are not concerned, as are third-party notice holders, seizures... Amendment No 14 aims at capping all the bank charges to be paid by our fellow citizens who are in a situation of financial fragility, especially those who have subscribed to the specific offer. For this purpose, it takes over the existing ceilings – 25 euros per month for persons in financial fragility, 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year for persons who have subscribed to the specific offer or who use the right to the account. I understand Mr Chassating's intervention, in particular, that some of our colleagues would be open to such a proposal, in my view, to broaden the ceiling base, integrating a whole series of committees that are currently excluded from it, while concentrating the measure on the benefit of a given public. In the small documents that you receive once a year and that you may read, there is an explosion of lines: we are 600! Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you this impertinent question: you received this document not very long ago, did you read it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u325	I got it last week!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u326	[[Smile]] If you read it during an insomnia, could you give us a quick summary? I did the test in committee, I said earlier: two hands rose timidly, and these two people had read this thought in part only... We have a real problem! It is therefore logical to extend the ceiling, as several colleagues from the majority have said, I repeat, in their speeches. As for Amendment No 15, its scope is more limited, since it concentrates on our citizens alone who use the specific offer or who use the right to the account. This affects about 700000 people, of whom a quarter for whom the cap has an effect. In view of the bank profits, which were in the order of 30 billion in 2021, we are really in the thickness of the line!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u327	What is the Government's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u328	It is unfavorable, for two different reasons, because I believe that your amendments concern two distinct points. First of all, your amendments aim to include in the law the limits on bank charges, particularly for those who have subscribed to the specific offer. However, these ceilings already exist and apply, as they have been set out in the AFECEI Charter, which has a regulatory value since its approval by order. Secondly, you want to lower the ceiling on agios and incident costs, but a careful study of these two types of costs leads us to consider that they are of a different nature. Incident charges correspond to what their name says. As for agios, these are interests, since when you are out of print, your bank lends you money. Since the social purpose of the banks is not philanthropic, this loan of money must be remunerated. In this case, the agio cap is related to the wear rates. In other words, agios costs cannot be subject to the same ceiling as incident costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u329	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u330	I will contradict both of your arguments, Secretary of State. First, why move from the regulatory level to the legislative level? Simply because the "place agreement" that we are talking about, and on which I will come back later, has no real scope and no sanctions. That is why it is necessary to include this provision in the law,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u331	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u332	... knowing that the distinction between articles 37 and 38 of the Constitution is now variable in geometry. So your first argument doesn't hold, nor does the second. I would like to remind you that, among other things, interest receivable – i.e. agios –, incomplete occasional transfers, cheques issued by customers subject to bank bans, or administrative seizures to third-party holders – the famous SATDs, which the collector can, for example, apply on wages. It's not normal that all of these costs are off the ceiling. You insisted only on agios, Mr. Secretary of State, but we could have considered leaving them out if you had agreed to extend the scope of the cap to other costs. Indeed, in the case of the SATDs and all the many commissions, the only solution is to extend the ceiling base. As for the agios themselves, when there are some, it is because the account is in deficit. There are reasons for this and it is always possible to block the account in question. Agios, on the other hand, lead to extremely high interest rates. For all these reasons, I think you are wrong, Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, I count on you to vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u333	What a talent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u334	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u335	You say, Mr rapporteur, that there are no sanctions, but there are sanctions. The application of the Charter, which specifies the content and scope of the bank's commitments, is monitored annually by the CPRA. This can lead to sanctions, even if it is true that the Authority does not impose sanctions every year. On the other hand, the objective is above all that households do not have financial problems and do not have to pay for agios. In this regard, I believe that the best way to achieve this is to develop financial education and prevention, as we have discussed in the past and I think you will agree. I think this is really the best way to avoid this type of situation: financial education must help households make the right choices.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u336	What is financial education?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u337	Finally, if banks are asked tomorrow to carry out transactions for which they will not be paid, they will simply decide not to do so. By adopting your amendments, we would in fact encourage banks to stop carrying out certain transactions they are currently carrying out for their customers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u338	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u339	My colleague, what you are saying about sanctions is not entirely correct. The PCRA has a general power of sanctions, but does not specifically address the issue of capping. If a bank fails to comply with the ceilings on which the banking community has agreed, there will be no sanction: I will return to that earlier, because I have tabled an amendment on this point. Indeed, if the ceiling is set at 20% and a bank charges 30%, there is no penalty and I would suggest that it be equal to the overrun. In addition, I agree with your argument about prevention. The best tool is effectively risk prevention, education and good budget management. This is the heart of the problem, but it has nothing to do with the question we are dealing with here: one does not prevent the other.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u340	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u341	I will supplement the reply of the rapporteur and Mr Chassating by stating that the sanctions can be applied either by the APCR, in view of what you have mentioned, or by DGCCRF – Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and the Suppression of Fraud – which writes several times a year minutes which it transmits to the courts, since the cases are therefore criminal cases. Thus, failure to comply with the established ceilings leads to effective sanctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u342	I put to the vote Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u343	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 45 Number of votes cast 43 Absolute majority 22 For adoption 13 Against 30
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u344	I have before me three amendments, Nos 10, 11 and 1, which can be discussed jointly. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendments Nos 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u345	They deal with an issue that many of us have been seized of: closing an account in the event of the death of a relative. According to studies carried out by consumer associations, the average cost of closing an account in France is €233. One of my fellow citizens even told me that he had been asked 800 euros to close his parents' small account after their death. You said earlier that we were very good, compared to other European countries, in terms of banking. No! We're very bad. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group]] Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how much the Germans pay to close their parents' account in case of death? Nothing, thanks to a decision of the Karlsruhe Constitutional Court! And how much is the same operation in Spain?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u346	I thought I heard in our debate that it cost 80 euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u347	That's not true; It's 0 euro! The Spanish Central Bank has imposed free payment and accepts the payment of a commission – which is why there may be confusion – only when the bank advises the family in the context of succession, which is quite different. And what about somewhere else? In Italy, the average closing cost of an account is EUR 112 and in Belgium EUR 107. So you see that we are at a very higher level. For example, since the majority has refused to extend the scope of the cost cap and this operation is not part of it, I propose to you, by Amendment No 10, to adopt the German-Hispanic system and to make the closure of an account free of charge, or, by Amendment No 11, to fix the amount of it at EUR 100, in order to bring us in line with the other European countries. [[Applause on several benches in the LT group]] While from the far left to the far right – the finding is amusing – we all want to lower inheritance taxes, I would not understand that you are not in favour of reducing the cost of closing an account.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u348	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u349	In substance, we will join you, Mr. Rapporteur. Without any connection to the debate on inheritance rights, it seems to me that closing an account should be easier. A space discussion is under way on this issue and we are mobilized to bring it to a successful conclusion. With this in mind, it seems premature to legislate. On the other hand, contrary to what you have said, I did not say that the full costs of intervention and bank charges were lower in France than elsewhere in Europe, but that all costs should be considered in order to estimate the amount of banking services. The French pay for an overall service cost which includes bank charges, charges related to real estate loans, etc. They are interested in the total amount of their expenditure and yes, the overall cost of banking services in France is significantly lower than the European average.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u350	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u351	Beware of what you're told, Secretary of State! Indeed, consumers' behaviour in banking varies greatly in Europe: national traditions are quite different from one country to another. For example, in Germany, there is still a lot of cash. Elsewhere, since it is your passion, the exchanges will be much more dematerialized. The elements you give us are therefore different from those communicated by consumer associations, who made comparisons by taking typical cases. These same associations also made bank-by-bank comparisons, noting very large differences from one institution to another.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u352	You're a liberal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u353	[["Very good" on the benches of the LT group]] I am a liberal, but liberalism is for people who can defend themselves, Secretary of State. I'm in favour of liberalism, but as long as it's organized. You say that competition will solve problems, but that is not the case! Competition is for educated people who have training. They compare, put several bankers in competition and then things can eventually work. But for very modest people, a little lost, who, in addition, sometimes have their account in deficit, competition does not work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u354	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u355	That is why we have concentrated our amendments on the 3.8 million fragile people, or rather the 3.8 million fragile accounts, out of the more than 100 million opened in France. These 3 or 4 per cent accounts correspond to the 4 or 5 per cent of the population in extreme poverty that most sociological studies show.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u356	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u357	I will allow myself to reply again, Mr rapporteur, because I find the subject too simplistic. I do consider that competition is tending to lower prices, and I am against the telecom market, on which you could say the same thing, namely that it is complicated to change operators when you are a person with little means. However, the telecom market shows that competition has led to lower prices, which are significantly lower in France than elsewhere in Europe, while investment levels remain very high. It is probably easier to change telephone operators than banks, but in truth, especially with online banks, opening an account on N26 or Revolut, which are not French banks, is very fast. I did it myself: it takes five to ten minutes. Consumers are therefore not in a position of dependence and they do not suffer the situation as you seem to indicate. However, are we at the end of the competition logic and are we moving from one bank to another in a perfectly fluid way? Certainly not: we still need to improve things. We are not going to engage in a debate on liberalism and colbertism, but I maintain that greater competition between banks must lead to a reduction in bank charges. This is what is happening now, according to the figures provided by the Bank Rate Observatory: they show a significant decrease in bank charges since 2008.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u358	Mrs Rouaux, although the Government has already spoken, we are in joint debate and you support Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u359	I want to, Madam President. When we interviewed the Executive Director of the FBF, we asked her about the inheritance costs that were discussed in the press, particularly after the UFC-Que choisir investigation. She had committed herself to providing us with some figures, but, strangely enough, we are still waiting for them; I asked them again this week. On the other hand, Mr Secretary of State, what you say about competition applies to Parisians or city dwellers, but when you live in the countryside, you are not going to compare the prices of the neighbouring bank with those of the competitor installed 15 kilometres away, especially since there are more and more windows closed and there is a real accessibility problem. In these cases, there is no competition. And then, who's thinking about finding out about the estate fees when he opens an account? Finally, I would add that some people do not close their accounts because closing fees are also too high, knowing that banks have a better chance of having the largest number of accounts. The issue of bank charges applied to payment accounts and livret accounts in the context of estates is very important, and you have to commit yourself to studying it closely, as these are practices that are constantly developing and unacceptable to modest families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u360	I noted that the Committee and the Government were opposed to the three amendments under joint discussion. I put Amendment No. 10 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u361	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 40 Number of votes cast 37 Absolute majority 19 For adoption 17 Against 20
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u362	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-04-O1148.u363	Next sitting, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the discussion of the proposal for a law on combating financial exclusion and capping of bank charges; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to grant political asylum to Julian Assange and to facilitate access to refugee status for foreign whistleblowers; Discussion of the proposed constitutional law on the recognition of the white vote for the presidential election. The meeting is adjourned.
