ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-25-O1166.u1	I have received the following letter from the President of the Republic: "Mr President, in accordance with Article 18 of the Constitution, I have decided to send a message to Parliament, which you will be willing to read out to the National Assembly on Friday, 25 February, at 14:30. » [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the European Parliament, and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs and Mrs ……]] The words of the message of the President of the Republic are as follows: "Ladies, gentlemen, "In the face of developments in Ukraine, I wanted to address Parliament today. "You will understand that my first thought, in the tragic times that we are living, goes to the Ukrainian people and authorities. I commend their courage to resist Russia's massive military offensives, as well as their determination to defend their sovereignty and freedom. Nothing has been or will be neglected to help them. We owe them support and solidarity. All measures are also taken to ensure the protection of our compatriots in Ukraine. The nation, through my voice, salutes those who continue to provide, despite the danger, our diplomatic representation and our support for Ukraine. "The current crisis, as you know, was the result of Russia's planned and then organised decision to invade Ukraine. The chain of events over the past few weeks is clear and without appeal: the accumulation of Russian military forces at the Russian and Belarusian borders of Ukraine, the sharp increase in the number of ceasefire violations and the provocations on the line of contact in eastern Ukraine, the announcement by Russia of the unilateral and illegal recognition of the independence of the two self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Luhansk by explicitly flouting the Minsk agreements of February 2015, the decision to send to the territories controlled by the separatists of the Russian armed forces for an alleged peacekeeping mission, and the outbreak on 24 February 2022 of an armed attack of great intensity against Ukraine. "With our European partners and allies, we had anticipated this terrible possibility of a war on the continent. We have therefore made every effort to avoid escalation and to work to resolve the crisis through dialogue. In close coordination with Ukraine, our European partners and our allies, we continued the demanding dialogue with Russia for several years, because we knew that no one on our continent had anything to gain from climbing. We have made serious proposals and acted tirelessly to establish the conditions for this dialogue, with Germany in the Normandy format, as well as with our allies and partners on security guarantees on the European continent. "Today we see that Russia, turning its back on its commitments and the diplomatic path, makes the choice of destabilizing confrontation for the whole continent. Through its unilateral decisions and military actions, Russia contravenes its international commitments and challenges the cardinal principle of respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States, the very foundation of the European and international order. "In this context, as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, France's duty is threefold: first, not to yield anything on the fundamental principles of peace and collective security, by firmly sanctioning their violation. This is what the European Council took action yesterday with a series of unprecedented sanctions against Russia and Belarus. Sanctions will also concern Russian personalities, including the highest leaders of the Russian Federation. Secondly, we must act in solidarity and in support of the Ukrainian people and authorities. In this way, we will provide additional budgetary support of EUR 300 million. We are also in contact with the Ukrainian authorities to provide them with the defensive equipment they need. Finally, we must ensure unity with our European partners and allies in order to protect our sovereignty, security and democracies. In this regard, we will make additional commitments within NATO to protect the soil of our Baltic and Romanian allies and we will strengthen the fight against information manipulation and cyber attacks to protect ourselves from foreign interference. "The war in Ukraine marks a major geopolitical and historical turning point in the 21st century, and puts the risk of a return of empires and border conflicts at risk. This major crisis will affect our lives, our economy and our security. Sanctions have a lasting impact, they are never without consequences, including for us, but we do, because it is about defending our values. In this regard, we will take all the necessary decisions to protect our compatriots and businesses. This test confirms to everyone that our Europe is not a consumer union, but a political project of citizens committed to common values and principles. As such, the European Union must fully become a more sovereign power in energy, technology and the military. "I know that beyond the differences which legitimately oppose you and which guarantee the vitality of our democracy, Parliament will be able to respond in unity around the fundamental principles enshrined in our Constitution: sovereignty, freedom and respect for international law. "Long live the Republic! [[Extended applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, SOC, IUD-I, Agir ens and LT. – Applause on the benches of the group GDR, as well as on several benches of the group LR and on some benches of the group FI]] "Long live France! » The National Assembly takes note of the message of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-25-O1166.u2	Next sitting, Tuesday, 1 March, at 3 p.m.: Statement by the Government on Russia's decision to wage war against Ukraine, followed by a debate. The meeting is adjourned.
