ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u1	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Patrick Mignola and others on the development of the Rhône (No 4832, 4891). The Conference of Presidents decided that this text would be examined in its entirety in accordance with the legislation procedure in committee. In accordance with Rule 107(3) of the Rules of Procedure, we will hear statements by the committee rapporteur and the Government, and then explanations of vote by the groups. We shall then proceed to the vote on the whole text adopted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u2	Mr Mignola, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u3	The moment is singular: the text on which we are about to vote aims to amend a law that was almost a century old and which, adopted in 1921 at the initiative of Rhodanians, had laid down the outline of the development of the Rhône. The Rhône constitutes the identity of our country: the third French river by its length, the second by its flow, it is staked in 19 hydroelectric works, fourteen large locks and twenty-two industrial and port sites. It is distinguished by a unique management model, since it is the subject of a concession granted by the State in 1933 to the Compagnie nationale du Rhône (CNR), which carries out a triple mission in this respect by managing both the use of hydraulic power, the navigation on the river and the agricultural uses of the Rhône, among which are irrigation and sanitation. This concession granted for seventy-five years, the duration of which began to run in 1948 – the date of the entry into service of the Génissiat dam – will expire on 31 December 2023. The purpose of this bill is to extend it until 31 December 2041, while at the same time giving it a new impetus by updating the terms of reference and the associated master plan. I would like to thank all of you who have contributed to the success of this text. It is rare enough to stress that the latter is indeed co-signed by many members of the Assembly, from the ranks of six of the nine political groups that make up it, and was unanimously supported in its consideration in committee. I also welcome the spirit of responsibility demonstrated by everyone in the discussion of the text. This is the result of a particularly intensive process of consultation. Exchanges between the State and the concessionaire on the extension of the concession began in 2013. Then, from 2019 onwards, a series of stages of consultation were followed: consultation with the guarantor giving rise to a response and commitments of the State, post-concert discussion organised with the same guarantor, opinion of the Environmental Authority, submission of the dossier to the public participation and administrative consultation led by M. le Préfet du Rhône. This means that all stakeholders were involved and heard during the preparation of the general terms of reference and the outline attached to the draft law. Our House has been able to preserve the balances achieved during the examination of the text in committee: we have held a good debate there, while adopting only two editorial amendments out of the seven that were tabled. The procedure of legislation in committee, which has gone to its end, allows us today to start a discussion in session, but without further tabling of amendments: in accordance with Rule 107(3) of our Rules of Procedure, only coordination amendments or amendments aimed at correcting a material error or ensuring respect for the Constitution were admissible in the sitting. I come to the introduction of the provisions of the bill. Its first objective is to extend the concession granted to the CNR until 2041, i.e. for an additional 18 years. European public procurement law would have theoretically imposed a recommissioning of the concession at the time of the original seventy-five years, i.e. in 2023. But the particular history of this concession justifies its extension without re-competition. Indeed, after the Second World War, it was necessary to nationalize electricity generation in order to meet the growing needs in this area. This was the subject of the Act of 8 January 1946, which entrusted EDF with this production. Thus, between 1948 and 2006, it was not the CNR, but the historical operator who operated the works on the Rhône, which represented a period of derogation from the normal concession regime of almost sixty years. These circumstances, which are unpredictable, justify the extension of the concession to the NRC. The new deadline for the concession, set at 31 December 2041, was chosen so that the average duration of operation of the 19 hydroelectric works on the river would be seventy-five years. The legal validity of this extension was confirmed by the receipt in October 2020 of a so-called comfort letter in which the European Commission assures France that the extension of the concession would not constitute State aid within the meaning of European law, because of its financial neutrality. This is ensured, on the one hand, by carrying out an additional work programme by the concessionaire; on the other hand, by changing the calculation of part of the fee paid by the CNR to the State, which will be proportional to and will evolve with electricity prices on the market. But beyond the question of its legal validity, the extension is necessary as evidence of fact. The current dealership, the CNR – of which I greet the president and her teams, present in the fora of the public – has the experience and know-how necessary for the pursuit of its mission as an operator of the Rhône. This was widely shared during the consultation. The CNR's governance and ownership guarantee that the tasks of general interest entrusted to it will be carried out: this company has a management board and a supervisory board, composed of representatives of the State and local authorities. Above all, the company has a majority public shareholding and about 17% of its capital is owned by 183 local authorities. The industrial dimension is also highly present and gives the CNR a real heritage of skills. I take this opportunity to recall that the company represents 1,500 direct and 15,000 indirect jobs. At a time when we must defend and increase industrial employment in France, it is therefore a jewel to be preserved and an example to be valued. [[Danielle Brulebois and Mathilde Panot applaud]] The NRC has also evolved and now incorporates a strong environmental dimension. I am thinking in particular of the rehabilitation of the lônes, these old arms of the Rhône, but the concessionaire's actions in favour of the environment are much more numerous. The CNR is also the only French actor to produce entirely renewable energies – water, air, sun – and provides nearly a quarter of French hydropower. May the exercise of these tasks of general interest inspire the legislator when it comes to examining other types of public service concessions, such as dams, and to encourage him to vote for the extension and maintenance of the public service. In addition to extending the concession, the draft law sets out in the annex the general specifications and the outline of the concession, thus enhancing the legal certainty of the project. These documents specify and guide the missions of the concessionaire. As I have pointed out, they have been the subject of a long consultation and present several developments. The two main ones are the extension of the concession's perimeter to parts of the Rhône currently managed by Voies navigable de France (VNF) – which will make it possible to manage the river all the more integrated – and the implementation of a programme of additional works for an amount of 500 million euros. This programme includes the construction of six small hydropower plants and feasibility studies for a future hydroelectric project in the Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas sector. This last point has given rise to lengthy discussions during the dialogue. The State is committed to fully involving stakeholders in the project. The National Commission for Public Debate (CNDP) will have before it. As for the outline, it is the support of the five-year multiannual programmes implemented by the NRC which enable it to invest in local projects. These programmes are divided into five main axes which include, in addition to the three historic missions of the concessionaire, an environmental and biodiversity axis and a focus on complementary actions carried out in relation to the territories. The draft law specifies that the committee to monitor the implementation of the concession will be consulted on these five-year multiannual programmes. In addition – and it is a major point for parliamentarians that we are – the MPs and senators concerned will be able to join this follow-up committee. The elected representatives will therefore have a say in the implementation of the concessionaire's missions. Finally, the draft law provides for the maintenance of prefectural competence in the allocation of reserved energies. This provision responds to a strong demand that emerged during the consultation process. I would like to recall that the Rhône passes through eleven departments and that while the management of the reserved energies falls under the common law of each departmental council, the latter have all wished that the representative of the State ensure the coordination of the allocation of these energies – a sensitive subject if any – in good intelligence with them. [[Mr. Cyrille Isaac-Sibille applauds]] Colleagues, we do not think that regulations, figures and laws are enough to reflect the lives of men. On the contrary, all of us, I believe, believe that production, trade, commodities or financial results are only worth if they allow progress and increase the chances for our common humanity. I will therefore conclude by simply recalling that the Rhône is first and foremost that river in which one plays, sometimes on which one plays, these waves where one sometimes hears "only the noise of rowers who hit in rhythm", this fixed landscape and yet in motion in which the eyes of the children dive and dream,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u4	[[Smile]] What a poet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u5	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM, Agir ens, LT and FI groups]] ... from the foothills of the Grand Colombier to Chavornay or Béon, from the banks of the Canal de Savières, through which the Rhone flows or flows the great Lake of Bourget, to the delta, where the Rhone embraces a Mediterranean which was the cradle of our civilization. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and LT groups]] Therefore, I invite you to adopt this text as broadly as possible, so that, by transmitting it to the Senate, which has already carried out high-quality preparatory work, we can entrust to the NRC the destinies of this great river until 2041.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u6	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u7	I am very pleased to be with you to consider this bill, which brings us together not just to decide to extend a concession of development and exploitation, but also to evoke one of the most beautiful French rivers, which some call the "god river" or the "king river",...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u8	After the Laita, born in Quimperlé!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u9	...a powerful river from Switzerland to the Mediterranean. The Rhône has evolved with us. Its exploitation now goes hand in hand with the acceleration of the ecological transition, conducted in partnership with local authorities, and must be based on sustainable land-use planning projects and an ambitious development of renewable energies. This is a unique project, which combines energy, mobility and water management issues – economic, environmental and social challenges, which are sometimes difficult to reconcile. The text proposed to us is a very good example of adapting to this necessary development. I would therefore like to thank President Mignola, as well as the Members of Parliament on all sides who co-signed this bill, for dealing with this essential issue. Of course, the Government is very committed to the almost centenary mission entrusted to the Compagnie nationale du Rhône. The latter is not only a concessionaire responsible for developing and operating one of the largest rivers in the country. It also embodies a unique model in France, born in 1933 of an absolutely visionary idea, consisting of entrusting to a single operator three intrinsically linked tasks: energy production, river navigation and irrigation of agricultural land. In all these areas, since the beginning of the concession, we have had to adapt. Nineteen hydropower plants, 19 dams and 14 locks were built, 330 kilometres of waterway were opened from Lyon to the Mediterranean and numerous industrial and port sites were built. Particular attention has always been paid to the environmental impacts of these infrastructures. The Compagnie nationale du Rhône is a company that has managed to take the turn of progress by launching it without hesitation in the development of renewable energies and in the protection of ecosystems. Today, it is France's leading producer of exclusively renewable energy, with three gigawatts of installed power and energy from water, wind and sun. As you said, the CNR is also a decisive link in the Rhodanian territory, an essential partner in the communities and a key player in economic dynamism. All the projects carried out over the decades have in common to contribute to missions of general interest for the benefit of the territories, whether to develop the 27000 hectares of land granted, along the Rhône, for economic or environmental exploitation, or to finance territorial projects in favour of renewable energies, the protection of biodiversity, tourism or sustainable agriculture. Local anchoring is also part of the company's identity, linked to a territory for all these projects, including at the level of its governance, since its capital is composed in particular of 183 local shareholders. In this context, the Government strongly supports, you will understand, a bill that comes at a decisive moment since the concession was to end on 31 December 2023. As early as 2014, the State had taken steps to organise the post in consultation with the various stakeholders. Over the course of the discussions, it became clear that legislative extension was the most robust solution. With this bill, I am convinced, shared by the Government as a whole, that we have a satisfactory and balanced text. First of all, with regard to legal issues related to the application of European competition law, the proposed extension of the concession has benefited from intensive exchanges with the European Commission. The Commission informed the Government that it did not identify, at this stage, a component of State aid. Secondly, to take account of its specificities, the bill tends to include this particular concession in an ad hoc legislative provision, which is very high in our hierarchy of norms. It is the result of a democratic and participatory approach, since its terms were submitted to the public consultation and consultation procedures held between 2019 and 2021. All the discussions have been widely held, which is a welcome development. Finally, this bill allows us to reinforce the requirements and ambitions of the concession's specifications. I am thinking in particular of the inclusion of provisions allowing elected Members of Parliament from departments and constituencies within the scope of this concession to participate in the follow-up committee. In addition, the draft law makes it clear in this specification that missions of general interest to the territories will be the subject of a master plan and of five-year programmes on which the Monitoring Committee will make an explicit decision. This mechanism enables national representation to be informed and promotes its participation in the reflection on the various issues. The essential virtue of the extension of the concession until 2041 is to restore visibility, both to the local authorities – in particular those who are shareholders of the CNR – to the concessionaire company and to its more than 1,400 employees, who are of course the first concerned, and finally to our trajectory of decarbonisation. As you know, the plants of the Rhône concession play an important role in the development of renewable energies: they are owed almost a quarter of French hydropower production. In addition, the concession allows the development of photovoltaics and wind energy in the territory of Rhodan. You know our ambitious trajectory and our goal of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. In order to achieve this, we must plan, within the framework of the multiannual energy programming, to increase from only 25% of electricity produced by renewables to 40% by 2030. If the Rhône concession takes its full part in this process, a long-term pilotage is necessary. The extension will also consolidate actions in other areas of the concession, such as navigation or sustainable agriculture. On the other hand, I will pay particular attention, which will not surprise you, to the fact that the CNR is carrying out – and strengthening – with the support of the Water Agency, its action programme for the protection and restoration of ecosystems, for example through the work obligations imposed on concessionaires or missions of general interest. Even if the river is largely built, we can still do much better in this area by improving, for example, the circulation of migratory fish, the sediment transit, the restoration of the lônes – these old arms of the Rhone which were short-circuited by the navigable channel –, the management of wetlands related to the river or the restoration of the banks. As you can see, this project is global and is at the heart of the challenges of the transition. The CNR also willingly participates – as we know less – in communication and mediation actions around these issues, accompanies information campaigns, such as the recent one of the Tara Océan Foundation on microplastic discharges, and participates in the organization of major environmental awareness events. I also thank the CNR for being with us in organizing the IUCN World Conservation Congress, the International Union for Nature Conservation. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will have understood, in view of all these issues, the Government fully supports this bill. I would like to thank the authors again. The very nature of a responsible ecological policy is to set a shared horizon, a path for everyone to anticipate the necessary changes. This means acting with and not against these territories – as is demonstrated by the NRC's governance. This consists of starting from the existing, in this case a river, with its constraints but also its formidable opportunities. Thank you again for this unifying and necessary text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u10	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u11	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Mignola for this bill, which makes us all the more pleased that we are thus on the side of the majority, who for once – I am happy to say so – abandons its liberal ardours...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u12	Mignola is on the left, it's well known!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u13	... by proposing a text that invites us to resist the all-out privatization that we have known since 2017. Of course, the La France insoumise group will vote in favour of this bill, which aims to ensure that hydroelectric works in the Rhône Valley cannot be opened to competition and delivered to the appetites of the market. I take this opportunity to reiterate to the Government our firm opposition to the Hercule project, suspended thanks to the mobilization of trade unions and citizens, without which Emmanuel Macron would have had no scruples to cut into EDF pieces – although we will need it in the future – for the greatest pleasure of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u14	Even when they agree, they can't be nice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u15	Unfortunately, she spends most of her time asking us to open up to competition everything that is moving, for example our 400 hydroelectric sites, which are yet the country's largest source of renewable energy. I repeat this forcefully: depriving us of the management and exploitation of works of such importance would be tantamount to falling into the wall. Thank you, Mr rapporteur, for explaining that it was possible not to open the dams to competition. Indeed, privatizing dams and opening up to competition would be subject to a dogma according to which the interests of large shareholders outweigh the general interest. Privatizing dams would mean depriving themselves of the means of implementing ecological bifurcation, which requires long-term planning. Privatizing the dams would mean the disappearance of technical and scientific expertise, a public expertise that has emerged from decades of experience. Privatizing dams would threaten the safety and integrity of the works, 25% of which were built more than 70 years ago. EDF invests €400 million per year in their maintenance; I don't think the private sector could do the same. Privatizing dams would also mean selling infrastructure that has long been amortised by users and that has a gross surplus of 2.5 billion euros – this has already been observed during the privatisation of motorways or the opening up of rail to competition. Dams must remain public because they are key links to ecological bifurcation. I would therefore like to thank you once again for this bill, which aims to maintain a majority public management of hydroelectric works in the Rhône Valley. This text is all the more important in view of the fact that it is the most nuclearized river in France and that, according to scientists, it will fall by 10 to 40% in its flow in the future. The resulting conflicts of use of water will therefore have to be arbitrated by collective decision. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] I told you before, Mr. Mignola, we could have gone further. For example, we would like to build a public energy hub. However, the provisions that you propose avoid opening up to competition the 19 works of the Rhône Valley until 2041, thus repelling the threat of privatization. In this they echo the programme we are defending. Indeed, we continue to affirm that dams must be managed by historical actors, that they are a common good and that we must absolutely preserve them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u16	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u17	While the European Commission sent France two years ago a new notice to obtain, in the context of the renewal of the concessions, the opening to competition of our hydroelectric installations, in April 2019 we had been at the initiative of a proposal for a European resolution for the future of the sector. Signed by more than a hundred deputies from all sides, the text called on the Government to come closer to its European partners with a view to explicitly excluding the hydroelectric sector from the scope of the European directives on services in the internal market and the award of concession contracts. We rejected as dangerous and irrational the opening to competition of this strategic sector in economic, social and environmental terms, which is based on a heritage that has long been financed by the French and preserved in excellent condition. We took our historic operators – the Compagnie nationale du Rhône but also EDF or the SHEM, the Société hydrocétrole du Midi – with regard to the operation of our electrical works. We believe, like a majority of our citizens and a large number of elected representatives in our territories, that hydropower far exceeds the only framework of energy production and covers many issues, whether environmental issues or the importance of public service. The latter is in fact essential in an area that involves the different uses of water resources and whose dams play a real role in our territories in terms of agricultural irrigation, the supply of drinking water, support for stretching or tourism. The plurality of the tasks of the public limited company Compagnie nationale du Rhône is an illustration of the validity of an approach guided by the general interest. As I pointed out in committee, the first merit of the text we are examining is to guarantee public control of this formidable tool that is the Compagnie nationale du Rhône by avoiding fragmentation, a break-up between the three objects of a unified management today – hydroelectric works, river transport infrastructure and port facilities, spread over 27000 hectares of public estates that allow economic exploitation favourable to agriculture and to the support of territorial projects. Its second merit is to highlight the indispensability of historical operators such as the Compagnie nationale du Rhône. They are the only ones able to offer sufficient guarantees in terms of risk management, support for the economy and employment and effective consideration of the diversity of uses of water resources. They are also the only ones to be able to be part of long-term logics and to lead the necessary investments to increase our energy capacities – in particular hydroelectric power – with respect for the environment. The projects included in the text are a demonstration of this, if only the construction of small hydropower plants – for an additional 1.6% of production – or the increase in the production capacity of the Montélimar hydropower plant. The third merit of the text is to enable the Compagnie nationale du Rhône to continue to carry out its missions of general interest in favour of the development of the Rhône valley while at the same time giving it the means to face the challenges that await it in terms of anticipating and managing the consequences of global warming and recovering biodiversity, in close consultation with the local elected representatives, as you have shown very well in your presentation, rapporteur. [[Smile]] As has been pointed out in committee, the Compagnie nationale du Rhône is an exemplary tool in that it allows us to manage all the stakes, be they energy, economic or environmental, throughout the Rhône and within the same body – I express myself with much less poetry than you because I am not Rhodoan but auvergnat, rapporteur. This company illustrates the relevance of an integrated approach, under public control, of the issues related to water in the multiplicity of its uses: this must alert us to the impassable and dangerous nature of an opening to competition which would lead to the dismantling of such tools, which, on the contrary, are intended to multiply. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will therefore vote in favour of this text, hoping that the success of the CNR model will destilise the eyes of the proponents of the dismantling of our hydroelectric system – but I am sure that after this vote, everyone will have understood that it is not a matter of following this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u18	Thank you, President Chassaigne!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u19	Mr Anthony Cellier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u20	I am very pleased that this afternoon we can talk about energy, that is to say about the territories, planning, development and of course economics, but also about the French, because energy is the heart of their daily lives. We are at a turning point in reinventing the French energy model, and the examination of this bill shows that. A century ago, France drew up an unprecedented energy model, which would allow all French people to have access to energy available at every moment and throughout the country, at a controlled price. This model has been the key to the unprecedented economic development of our country and the restoration of our national sovereignty. These are exactly the issues that we will have to reinvent in the coming years. Thanks to this bill, we will continue, in the sense of history, to maintain the concession of the development of the Rhône in the public domain. I see this as a benefit for the development of this river, for the territorial authorities that follow it, for the citizens who live in its surroundings, for the 14,000 people who work today – directly or indirectly – in this concession and, lastly, as previous speakers have pointed out, for our energy policy and the related climate issues. The text we are looking at does not only allow for an extension of the Rhône concession for the next 18 years; it also allows us to look at history as we look to the future. Indeed, the CNR has three main tasks: the development of hydraulic power, navigation, irrigation and sanitation, in connection of course, Madam Secretary of State, with local environmental and biodiversity issues. This bill consolidates these tasks, notably through an investment programme of EUR 500 million, the introduction of a variable charge based on electricity prices, an increase in investments under the concession master plan to the tune of EUR 160 million per five-year period and, finally, an extension of the concession scope, where the sections and navigational structures of the Rhône managed by the French navigable waterways will be integrated. However, our discussions cannot escape the current situation in the energy markets in France and Europe. This energy crisis, which accompanies the resumption of economic activity, affects primarily fossil fuels – coal, oil, gas – but it also affects electricity prices. In the face of this situation, we have only one option: to consider with sincerity and demand the objective of carbon neutrality, and to build a long-term energy policy around this climate imperative. In 30 years, that is, in a generation, we must move from a France dependent on fossil fuels – I would remind you that they account for 63% of its consumption – to a carbon-neutral France, to a society that consumes better and produces carbon-free energy. In the face of this climate and energy challenge, the trajectory is clear: we will have to mobilise the entire nuclear fleet present and to come, dramatically accelerate the development of renewable energies and maintain a demanding energy efficiency policy. The path will be long and difficult; it requires a long-term anticipation. Ladies and gentlemen, the old polemics do not have a place in the urgency that is ours because achieving our climate objectives is impossible without a massive development of all renewable energies, without any exception. The text we are looking at makes it possible to go in this direction by valuing in our territory the advantages of hydropower; In particular, the investment programme supported by the proposed law should increase the electricity production of the Rhône. In addition, with regard to the construction of new hydroelectric works, particularly in the area of Saint-Romain-de-Jalionas, the CNR may, once the law is enacted, initiate a study phase to assess its relevance. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and GDR groups. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel also applauds]] At a time when we want to strengthen our energy independence and accelerate the deployment of renewable energies, this important bill is sending a signal. You will therefore understand, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, that for all these reasons, the La République group in motion will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u21	Mrs Duby-Muller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u22	The general concession of the Rhône is based on a singular model, a legacy of the past, since it was created in 1921; It deals with both energy, river transport and economic recovery, particularly for irrigation of agricultural crops. The Rhone is the mythical river and a structural element of my region. 812 km long, it takes its source in Switzerland, at an altitude of 2200 meters in the massif of Saint-Gothard, in the heart of a glacier, and ends in the delta of Camargue to dive into the Mediterranean Sea; legendary, great, powerful, it also houses incredible wildlife; A natural border between the Haute-Savoie and the Ain, it also has a tributary in my department, the Arve, whose confluence takes place in Geneva – which gives rise to some cross-border issues, particularly with regard to sediment management. It is between Injoux-Génissiat and Franclens that the largest hydroelectric dam in Europe was built on the date of its inauguration in 1948, a dam that contributed to the recovery of our country. The Compagnie nationale du Rhône, which was entrusted with the concession in 1933, is today the first producer of decarbonated energy – outside of nuclear energy – in France. This is an opportunity for our group to welcome the European Commission's proposal to integrate nuclear energy into the green taxonomy. This is certainly not the subject of our discussions today, but I would like to point out that this decision could play a major role in the financing of the renewal of our civilian nuclear fleet, a renewal that our group has been calling for for many years: this is a vision that we consistently defend in each of the bills that successive governments have put forward for two quinquennats on energy and ecological transition. Without having been heard so far, we do not tire of seeing the President of the Republic – who closed Fessenheim with so much conviction – and his majority turn around on this subject, while we run our coal-fired power plants full to avoid too many erasures. To return to the subject before us this afternoon, I thank the rapporteur, Patrick Mignola, for having tabled this bill, which replaces the draft of a ninth amendment to the concession by putting its deadline and its general specifications in the marble of the law. As I say at the outset, our group will support this text, which several of us, including our chairman, have co-signed. Its origins are old, since it has been nearly ten years since the NRC and the State discussed its contours and a wide-ranging work of consultation has been carried out. It has been done in accordance with the rules of the art in order to arrive today at a result which my group welcomes and which has reached unanimity in committee. Thus, the duration of the concession is extended until 2041, and it is proposed to modernize its legal regime by adapting the obligations placed on the concessionaire. However, the validation by the European Commission of the application of the calculation method for fixing the expiry date of the concession at 2041, without notification under the EU state aid rules, only repels the problem, as has been repeatedly mentioned here. The renewal of hydro-electric concessions, which is a matter of major litigation with the European Commission, is a matter of particular concern to us. If our country has managed to put a number of concessions to maturity under the transitional regime of the so-called slippery deadlines, it will be necessary to find lasting solutions in order to sanctify our hydroelectric production, an essential element for the maintenance of the French electricity supply system. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The Republican Group will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u23	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u24	"You run superb, o Rhone, flourishing/ Gold sandstone and Argentinian waters. / Maint big river makes you more charming, / Belted of cities, and lined with castles, / Practicing you by safe and large boats / To only go to our illustrious Europe. These verses are obviously not of me but of Maurice Scève, leader of the Lyon school in the 16th century; They depict much better than I could do on the Rhône, this river which is dear to me as it is to all those who live in its shores and valley, and which runs from Lake Geneva to Lyon, where it receives the Saône before diving towards the Mediterranean by watering Valencia, Avignon and Arles. Abundant with the waters of Ain, Isère, Drôme, Gard, Durance and so many other rivers, the Rhone discharges more than 1800 cubic meters of water into the Mediterranean every second, after irrigating its slopes that give birth to the fruits of the second vineyard of France. The Rhône is also the source of 25% of our hydraulic production, thanks to the involvement of the Compagnie nationale du Rhône since 1934. This sunny valley thanks to the Mistral also combines two elements conducive to the development of solar and wind farms. On behalf of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, but also as elected member of the Rhône department, I welcome the consideration of this bill, the result of several years of consultation. I would like to thank the rapporteur, our dear President Patrick Mignola, for this, who has made it possible to reach a very broad consensus on all the benches. This bill is indeed the realization of a will shared by a very large majority of local elected representatives and parliamentarians: that of extending the Rhône concession, adapting it to the new challenges and modernising it. By this extension, it is a unique model in France that we will preserve since, as has been recalled, the Compagnie nationale du Rhône was entrusted with the unique concession of the river in 1934 to fulfil three inseparable tasks: the generation of electricity, the development of river transport and the irrigation of agricultural land. The entry into service of the Génissiat dam in 1948 marked the starting point of a seventy-five-year concession, which thus matured in 2023. In this text we propose to extend it for 18 years, until 2041, because it is a model which, without equivalent in France, has proved its worth in terms of planning, in view of its vocation, unique in a triple sense, in the service of the general interest. Unique, the vocation of the Compagnie nationale du Rhône is first of all in terms of governance, the shareholder structure guaranteeing majority public participation and the full involvement of the territories. The CNR's vocation is also unique in its solidarity economic model: revenues from electricity generation finance other activities such as the preservation of the river and its biodiversity. It should also be noted that the NRC employs nearly 1500 people and provides some 15,000 indirect jobs. The extension of this concession is therefore also an issue of preserving French jobs and know-how. Its vocation is unique, finally, by its environmental contribution. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we have set ourselves ambitious climate targets: to increase the share of renewable energy in our electricity production to 40% by 2030. As a producer of 100% renewable energy, the NRC is an indispensable asset in our fight against global warming. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats strongly supports this text and has the firm will to be with the CNR. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and LR groups]] One last word: at a time when energy is more than ever at the heart of major international and diplomatic issues, the NRC is also a model for our energy sovereignty and a tool for our industrial independence, which we must safeguard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u25	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u26	It is in a particular context, at a time when the stakes relating to water resources and the development of renewable energies have never been so high, that the question arises for us of the extension until 31 December 2041 of the Rhône concession granted to the Compagnie nationale du Rhône. It is an important law for the river, its development, the management of the water resource and the supply of electricity at a time when we are in great need of it – the news shows it to us every day. CNR is also responsible for developing river navigation and irrigation. Its original model, based on a strong relationship with the territories, makes it a unique enterprise. This model has continued to develop since the State entrusted the company with the first single concession of the river: CNR now operates nineteen hydropower plants on the river, fourteen photovoltaic plants and thirty-three wind farms, for a production of 14 billion kilowatt hours per year. Over the years, CNR has acquired real know-how, making it the second largest electricity producer in France and the leading producer of exclusively renewable energy. It is therefore an actor on which to rely in order to succeed in the necessary energy transition and to satisfy the country's needs. You know my long-standing commitment to hydropower, clean, pilotable and inexpensive energy, and to the maintenance of its management by our historical operators: CNR, EDF and SHEM. It is a first and beautiful step towards this objective that we are taking today by voting for the extension of the concession without re-competition, justified by the unpredictable circumstances. This is essential in the fight against climate change, especially since the continuity of electricity supply is now weakened in our country. We must preserve and strengthen this atypical model that is proven. The future of the concession has been under discussion for nearly ten years. These discussions resulted, inter alia, in the mobilization of employees, management and elected officials. We must now endorse this process without wasting time because the current concession will expire tomorrow, in 2023. By proposing to extend the concession until 2041, this text aims to give CNR the means to meet the numerous and important challenges it faces. I am thinking first of the RSS 2030 strategy, launched by Élisabeth Ayrault and pursued by Laurence Borie-Bancel – whom I salute – which demonstrates the company's ambition. This extension is very much expected by employees and management because it depends on maintaining jobs but also the possibility of new recruitments estimated at 50 direct and 5000 indirect jobs. It will enable CNR to continue to carry out missions of general interest which contribute to the development of the Rhône valley and contribute to the attractiveness of the territories. But CNR will also have to face the climate challenge. We are already seeing a significant fluctuation in the level of the river depending on the floods and periods of stretch, which vary greatly. The Socialist and related group had taken all its part in the successful completion of this project, as early as 2013, within the framework of the law on the energy transition for green growth; It continues to do so today by co-signing this bill. We consider that the extension of the Rhône concession granted by the State to CNR is indispensable and must be effective as soon as possible in order to give visibility to the company. The text also aims to give legislative value to the concession's specifications and to the tasks of general interest financed by the undertaking which provides for a programme of hydroelectric works, development and securing of river navigation, in particular to increase the installed capacity of the Rhône. The investments are considerable, amounting to EUR 500 million on the works. The draft law also provides for a new book if the State so decides, and five-year plans of € 165 million per period to accompany territorial projects through missions of general interest. Finally, it extends the licensed perimeter. [[Applause on the benches of the SOC, LaREM, Dem and GDR groups]] In line with the work carried out since 2013, convinced of the importance of the issues related to this sector, the Socialist and related group will vote enthusiastically for the adoption of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u27	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u28	My constituency is a little far from the Rhône, which is why I discovered the CNR in commission. The statements by the rapporteur and the Secretary of State convinced me of the need to maintain this structure for an additional 18 years, both because it is a historical producer and because it has done a great deal for the Rhône and the inhabitants of the region, but also for our electricity resources, for the greening of this energy, for irrigation and for the control of the flow. Madam Secretary of State, you have made me love this Rhône, which you have humanised in your remarks, allowing the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs to adopt me among the lovers of the river. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the group LaREM]] The Agir ensemble group will be pleased to vote for this text, so that the company will continue its action for another 18 years, to the benefit of all the surrounding territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u29	On the proposal for a law, I have before me a request for a public vote by the groups The Republic on the move and the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u30	If the development of renewable energy and the protection of the environment are strengthened by the extension of the concession, there is no indication that another concessionaire would have done less or better. On such a major issue, it was regrettable that the Government had not tabled a formal bill, together with an impact assessment, which would have enabled the Council of State to give an opinion on the legal reliability of the scheme. It would also be useful to know the outcome of the discussions between France and the European Commission on the subject, since the risk of litigation was not to be excluded. The Rhône is the only French river concerned with a single concession throughout its basin, but it will still be necessary to think about the operation of the installations after 2041. Indeed, it will not be possible to extend the concession again. Calls for tenders will then have to be made in accordance with the usual procedures. The operation of offshore wind farms, as well as certain high-speed lines, are the subject of construction and operation concessions to private companies without any major difficulties. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] Madam Secretary of State, rapporteur, I have heard your explanations. The IDU and independent group will be pleased to vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u31	Jeanine Dubie has the floor – the Pyreneans must also have a voice in the chapter!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u32	Often described as indomitable, the Rhône is paradoxically, of all the French rivers, the one that has been the object of the greatest number of developments. At the origin of a number of these works is the Compagnie nationale du Rhône. Since 1933, this company with special status has carried out three joint and several tasks: electricity generation, navigation and irrigation of agricultural land. It was this specific model that allowed it to reconcile ecological transition with economic progress; It is this balanced management of the watercourse that needs to be sustained today. That is the purpose of this bill, which I have co-signed. It plans to extend the Rhône concession to the CNR for an additional 18 years, until 2041, without reopening competition. I am in favour of it for a number of reasons. First of all, because this company has developed, over the years, a privileged partnership with local authorities. The structure of its capital, held half by the local authorities and the Caisse des dépôts et consignations, attests to this. Secondly, because there is an urgent need to give this organization visibility and means so that it can meet the challenges ahead. While the Rhône could lose up to 40% of water by 2050, significant investments will be needed to continue to honour the three missions at the heart of the CNR's work. At a time when we need to accelerate the decarbonization of our energy mix, the know-how held by the NRC is a major asset in maintaining the hydropower structures that mark the river, especially in mountain areas, and in continuing to develop renewable energies. Last but not least, because I consider that the extension of concession contracts for the benefit of incumbent operators, whether CNR, EDF or SHEM, is essential to maintain our energy sovereignty. In this area, moreover, this bill is only a first step. Others need to follow in order to move forward on the resolution of the dispute between us and the European Commission and to preserve our energy production model. For more than 15 years, the European institutions have been trying to impose on us an opening to competition for hydro-electric concessions that have expired. For as long as France has been trying to escape this injunction by using slippery deadlines, even if it runs the risk of financial sanctions. This situation is no longer tenable. One solution was proposed by the Government: the Hercule project. But he carried in him the seeds of a dismantling of the public service of energy, and did not preserve our model of concession. We could not satisfy ourselves with it and its abandonment, even temporary, is a relief. For my part, I remain convinced that the only viable solution will be to maintain public management of hydro-electric concessions. At the time of the ecological and climate emergency, we need, not only to green our energy mix,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u33	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u34	...but also to ensure the security of our supply. As such, hydropower has an important role to play and its public pilotage is a necessity. Indeed, it is not only a low-emitting energy source, but, unlike other renewables, it is also capable of providing constant electricity generation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u35	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u36	Better, pumping energy transfer stations (STEPs) and our dams are electricity storage solutions. Our hydroelectric works are therefore crucial to ensure our energy supply and, more broadly, the balance between production and demand, as well as the flexibility and security of the networks – not to mention that they are real levers of economic development for our rural territories, especially in mountain areas. On the contrary, privatization could be synonymous with loss of energy sovereignty. The cutting of the water supply between several actors, potentially private, could increase production costs. I am also afraid that economic competition will favour the objectives of profitability at the expense of safety and security. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and GDR groups. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel also applauds]] That is why, like many other colleagues, I would like to place French hydropower assets under the protective regime of the public authorities. Pending negotiations at European level and leading to a satisfactory compromise, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote on this bill. It will allow, by dealing with the specific case of the Compagnie nationale du Rhône, to send a signal in favour of the extension, or even renewal, of the concessions to the benefit of the historical operators.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u37	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u38	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 65 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 65 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-19-O1130.u39	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a European resolution to include among the priorities of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union the adoption of ambitious legislation on the duty of vigilance of multinationals; Discussion of the motion for a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of the genocidal nature of systematic political violence and crimes against humanity committed by the People's Republic of China against the Uighurs; Discussion of the proposal for an emergency law to combat medical desertification; Discussion of the bill to increase the interprofessional minimum wage for growth and to open a national conference on wages; Discussion of the proposal for a law to combat the precariousness of accompanying students with disabilities and educational assistants; Further discussion of the proposed law to reform the taxation of inheritance and donation rights: protecting the middle and popular classes, and better redistribute wealth The meeting is adjourned.
