ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law on the legalization of the production, sale and consumption of cannabis under State control (No. 4746, 4862).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u2	This afternoon, the Assembly began to hear the speakers in the general discussion. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u3	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left welcomes the initiative of the La France group to put this bill on the agenda of our assembly on the legalization of cannabis. This initiative is part of a long-standing process, initiated by members of several groups, aimed at opening the debate on the legalization of cannabis through several reports and legislative proposals. This debate exists in our society, so it is healthy that it be relayed to the National Assembly, but the issue raised by the bill is complex because it covers both health, economic and security issues. Let us remember: cannabis is a dangerous product, which has particularly negative effects on the physical and psychological health of individuals. Therefore, as with other drugs, whether legal or not, the health issue must take precedence over any other consideration, particularly economic one. I therefore say this from the outset: I am opposed to the argument, fortunately absent from the bill, that the legalization of cannabis would offer new economic opportunities, in particular tax revenues for the state and opportunities for farmers. The increase in cannabis use, particularly among young people, is a matter of great concern and reflects a failure of our health policy. By 2021, 56% of youth aged 15-24 had already experienced cannabis and 25% had become regular users, a sharp increase over 2001 – at 41% and 6%, respectively. Recreational cannabis is now commonplace. This terrible finding must prompt us to ask ourselves the right questions. Perhaps, one day, could we take the time to study the reasons why this consumption increases so much among young people? What does this consumption reflect on today's youth and its relationship to society? To alert our compatriots about the dangers of this product, the state does virtually nothing. What role could school and university medicine play in prevention? It is true that school and university medicine is in a very poor state, and it is not clear how it could carry out this mission. However, it could be a key player in the prevention of risky behaviour. In terms of drug prevention, it is not a question of brandishing any moral argument – which would have an effect contrary to that sought – but of showing the negative consequences of cannabis use in the construction of individuals. We do not share the argument of saying: "Other drugs are legal, so let's legalize cannabis. With such an argument, one could also imagine legalizing all the other drugs: why only cannabis? Some argue in this respect with well-considered arguments. This extreme reasoning also illustrates the danger of the idea that the legalization of cannabis would put an end to drug trafficking. This trafficking, as we all know, rots people's lives, finances the mafias and causes the death of many young people in accounts settlements. We know how difficult it is to fight him. Deal points sometimes remain in the same places for years and make it impossible to live in the neighbourhood, often popular families. However, it is not because the fight against cannabis trafficking is too often ineffective that cannabis must be legalised. Do you really think that with its legalization, the people who live through this trafficking will cease any criminal activity? No, another traffic will take the place. It is therefore essential to thoroughly review the means and processes to combat cannabis trafficking. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] Beyond the interest of its subject, this bill does not answer the various questions it raises. The reflection must continue by drawing lessons from experiences abroad, their progress and their limitations. We will continue to listen to the arguments of our colleagues in favour of the legalization of cannabis, but, for all the reasons I have mentioned, the majority of Members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u4	Mr Belkhir Belhaddad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u5	The proposal for a law on the legalization of the production, sale and use of cannabis under state control, which we are considering tonight, addresses a sensitive and legitimate subject, the issues of which are both health, security, economic and fiscal. It is also a cleavage and passional subject, including within our assembly, which is why it must be approached without dogmatism. With 900000 daily users, cannabis use in France is among the highest in Europe, even though this product, defined as an illicit addictive and toxic substance, is subject to severe criminal repression. However, the study by the French Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictive Trends (OFDT) on the years 2009-2019 shows that cannabis use in France has decreased more than in other European countries. This result should encourage us to further improve our response to the development of cannabis use. The La République en marche Group welcomes the willingness of the La France group to launch the debate on the legalization of cannabis, which has multiple stakes. However, while we have already made progress towards legalizing the welfare and therapeutic uses of cannabis, the legalization of recreational cannabis seems to be premature to date. Indeed, the rewriting of the French regulatory framework on the sale of cannabidiol (CBD) by the decree of 31 December 2021 has made it possible to recognise the non-surprising nature of the CBD, in accordance with European case law, and thus liberalised the market for " cannabis well-being". With regard to therapeutic cannabis, the Social Security Financing Law (LFSS) for 2020 has authorised its experimentation with 3000 patients. At this stage, the first results are encouraging. However, the controlled legalization of recreational cannabis proposed by the bill is not acceptable either in substance or in form. In essence, the objective of the controlled legalization of cannabis is, according to the text, the best solution to address health, safety and regulatory issues. To these arguments, we answer, first of all, that we lack any setbacks in the effects of legalisation on consumption in other countries. In addition, the results we have for Canada, which has legalized cannabis, must lead us to act with caution. The inter-ministerial mission to combat drugs and addictive behaviour (MILDECA) examined the first data available for this country and reached two conclusions: on the one hand, consumption has increased for all age groups, except for 15-17 years, but they are not covered by legalisation; On the other hand, legalisation has not allowed parallel channels and traffic to be dismantled, as they have adapted and offer products that are more priced and cheaper. Transposed to France, these results give rise to fears that legalisation will have the effect of postponing traffic and adapting the channels, and that it will create new challenges for the police services, which we must anticipate. Secondly, the legalization of cannabis puts the risk of the product and its dangers being trivialised, whereas cannabis is a dangerous psychotropic substance, with harmful consequences, especially for the younger ones. On the form, finally, the choice of a bill containing a single section and considered at the end of the legislature is not up to the expectations and issues raised by the subject. If a legalization of cannabis was envisaged, it would be necessary to define, in advance, the French model of regulated legalization desired, taking into account both the successes and failures of foreign experiences and the political, historical and cultural specificities of our country. This is the meaning of the report of the National Assembly's joint fact-finding mission on the regulation and impact of different uses of cannabis, which lists the questions to be answered by the public debate before legalizing this substance. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] Production and distribution channel, status to be given to self-production, methods of pricing, reintegration of former traffickers: none of these issues is dealt with in the bill, and you are considering, rapporteur, another piece of legislation. It therefore seems preferable to postpone the decision and to continue the reflection in the context of a society debate that includes all citizens. That is why the La République en marche group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u6	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u7	The bill before us aims to legalize the production, sale and use of cannabis. Mr rapporteur, because you are aware of the failure of the repressive policy pursued so far by the French governments, both in its results and in its costs, you are proposing to move from a prohibitionist policy to a policy of regulating the production, consumption and sale of cannabis. This proposal reflects, in parentheses, your contempt for the work and professionalism of our law enforcement agencies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u8	Not at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u9	You propose to create a state monopoly, through the creation of a public administrative establishment to regulate production and retailing. Production would be subject to authorizations, as would sales, based on the model of tobacco dispensers. On the form of the bill, there are several problems. Of parliamentary origin, this text is logically presented in a niche. We all know the game of parliamentary niches, but in this case the subject is too serious and too sensitive to be discussed in this context. In addition, despite your measured presentation, rapporteur, the text minimizes the threat posed by cannabis to the health of the French. However, this threat is no longer to be demonstrated. Cannabis has harmful health effects, which are all the more dangerous as the user is young. This product can lower the intellectual quotient of adolescents, it is dangerous for drivers and it alters the ability of perception and attention like immediate memory. It also causes relationship, school and professional disorders. It reveals or aggravates mental disorders and leads to a risk of addiction. Cannabis is a dangerous substance that causes potentially serious mental disorders, especially among younger people. In addition, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law makes a parallel between the legalization of cannabis and the framework for the production, sale and consumption of alcohol and tobacco. Cannabis, along with these legalized substances, would be "a dangerous product". Finally, the explanatory memorandum presents legalization as a magical solution, which would produce wealth and create jobs, free up police and justice and reduce crime. According to the studies carried out in the countries that have adopted legalization, these effects must be highly balanced. This is proof of this: the study conducted by OFDT in the framework of the Cannalex international research project. Focusing on the years 2015 to 2017 and regularly updated, this study provides an interesting overview of the different legalization models in the world and allows to qualify the benefits of this measure, which, if they exist at times, are neither automatic nor certain. There are direct positive and significant economic and fiscal effects as a result of the emergence of an underground market in the legal economy – it is obvious, but this should not be considered as an argument of authority. With regard to crime, the results were mixed. The legalization of cannabis has mechanically reoriented some of the activities of law enforcement and magistrates. Similarly, while arrests for use and detention have logically decreased, there are still niches in which the repression of drug-related offences has not weakened; This is the case, for example, for minors. As a result, there is a continuing black market and cannabis-related crime, as a result of the need to supply young people under 21 years of age, people seeking products stronger than those authorized to sell or nationals of border states. Moreover, the activities of transnational criminal groups have not been fundamentally challenged by the legalization of cannabis. These criminal groups are still heavily invested in the black market for cannabis and are developing other traffickings, including heroin and methamphetamine, to compensate for the economic losses caused by the partial drying up of their markets. Finally, in the area of public health, there is overall stagnation in the consumption of minors but a marked increase among the major. In the United States, in all legalized states, the proportion of young adults who used cannabis increased much faster than the federal average, reaching a record level in some states – up to 33% of users who used cannabis in the past month in Oregon. In addition, the increased use of emergencies following acute cannabis intoxication is one of the most significant social and health consequences of legalization. The analysis of official sources also shows a decrease in the perception of the risk of cannabis use, an increase in cases of driving after cannabis use, most often in combination with alcohol, and a decrease in requests for treatment, particularly among the youngest, in the states of Colorado and Washington. These are evidence of some standardization of cannabis, especially among younger generations. Colleagues, the Republican Group cannot accept it; It cannot be resolved by abandoning the fight against drug trafficking. Drugs are poisonous to our society and we must remind them. Beyond the arguments I have just put forward, I would also like to stress, on behalf of my group, our ethical refusal to legalise such a thing. It would be a dramatic message sent to our society and could pave the way for the legalization of all drugs. For all these reasons, we will strongly oppose this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u10	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u11	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u12	According to the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), France is the first European country to use cannabis. It is estimated that 45% of French smokers have smoked cannabis at least once in their lives, while the European average is 29%. It is estimated that 5 million French and French people consume at least once a year, 1.4 million regular consumers, and 900000 daily consumers. This finding, long known, was again highlighted by the fact-finding mission on the regulation and impact of different uses of cannabis, which delivered its conclusions on 28 June. In the face of such figures and their consequences, it is not possible to avoid the debate, and we welcome the Group of the European People's Party, which has promoted it as part of its parliamentary niche. We must approach it without passion or dogmatism, but with pragmatism and vigilance. First of all, we must be clear: the repressive policy that has been in force in our country for decades has failed to significantly influence this consumption or the traffic that feeds it. The more recent policy of prevention has led, in recent years, to a slight reduction in the consumption of young people. It is to this public, let us not doubt, that our attention must be focused, as the use of cannabis is particularly harmful to their health. In addition, young people are also the first collateral victims of the illegal market that thrives at the very doors of colleges: this market employs minors to serve the interests of large traffickers and exposes them to sometimes deadly rules of account. Moreover, the traffic keeps them away from training courses and penalizes their entry into working life for a long time. The debate on the legalization of cannabis cannot be overshadowed by the protection of young people, both in terms of public health and education. Once this principle has been established, the public's opinion on the subject must be considered. The citizen consultation initiated by the National Assembly's fact-finding mission showed that a large majority were in favour of authorization of cannabis use and production, within a framework regulated by law. This is an interesting indicator, which shows a trend. On the other hand, the experts, in their great diversity, are generally false against the fears often expressed about legalization, such as its very incentive to use or the reorientation of trafficking on more harmful drugs. They also stress the difficulty of carrying out preventive measures, in the broad sense of the term, in relation to an illicit product. However, considerable work remains to be done, and many questions remain about the model that should be implemented, for example with regard to production and distribution channels. While the text attempts to respond to this in the context of its single article, there is a lack of evidence regarding prevention, the tax system or any sanctions that might need to be strengthened in the event of production, distribution or sale outside legal channels. We believe that this issue needs to be addressed in a national debate, based on real impact studies. This is a good thing, the presidential campaign is under way: it appears to be the opportune moment to evoke it in front of all the French. It should also be noted that the current legislature saw the opening of the marketing of cannabidiol and the launch of an experiment on therapeutic cannabis, under the supervision of the National Agency for the Safety of Medicines and Health Products (ANSM). These are the first necessary steps. On such subjects, long time is not an obstacle because we need to be able to take into account all the situations, all the scenarios. The legislative vehicle proposed here does not seem appropriate for such a socially engaging measure. Too many elements of the equation are missing. Moreover, it is not possible to legislate on a subject of such magnitude within a few months of the end of a legislature. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats will therefore oppose the adoption of the bill, while welcoming the rapporteur's initiative to set the stage for reflection.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u13	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u14	With 1.5 million regular cannabis users, France is on the podium in the countries most affected by this phenomenon in Europe. The figures have already been recalled by the rapporteur and call for modesty and a bolder spirit in this area. Cannabis reflects and crystallizes the contradictions of our society: it engages many interdicts and more or less serious transgressions, and gives rise, in response, to a repressive policy that does not attack the roots of evil. Indeed, beyond the problem of breaches of the law, what we are interested in here is our ability to change the situation, to reverse trends and to provide us with the means for an ambitious public health policy capable of protecting our youth. However, we can only note the Government's immobility on the question of a transition in the decriminalization or legalization of cannabis: it pursues a prohibition policy which has not, however, shown any major effect on the reduction of consumption at the national level. The various work carried out by Members, in particular in the context of the last fact-finding mission, in which I had the chance to participate, has demonstrated how much our vision of things should evolve, in order to take into account all aspects related to the production, sale and use of cannabis. As you know, after many hearings, this fact-finding mission produced a report in three parts: "therapeutic cannabis", "recreational cannabis" and "hemp well-being". Proof, if necessary, of the interest of our fellow citizens in this subject, we received more than 250,000 contributions in response to a survey launched on the National Assembly site. Their responses were unanimous: 80% were in favour of legalization. Then, of course, there is no question of relying, in a parliamentary democracy, on what might be the dictatorship of opinion. But we have to look at the situation realistically and take reasonable account of the state of our society, by striving to make a sincere assessment of our public policies in the light of the objectives we set ourselves, for the benefit of our fellow citizens. It is not enough to align figures highlighting the work of ants produced by our security forces, with self-denial and often putting themselves in danger; We must also understand the mechanisms which give rise to such a discrepancy between the efforts made by the public authorities and the expected results in the field of public health, as we have done for tobacco and alcohol, products which are highly addictive. Indeed, law enforcement and justice are too widely mobilized on cannabis and report their frustration in this regard. This is done at the expense of more essential tasks and a wide-ranging public health and prevention policy, which can effectively combat the dangers of cannabis. The narcobanditism and social suffering experienced by the neighbourhoods have worsened, without any repressive mechanism helping the inhabitants to re-approve the public space and regain some tranquillity. The introduction of the flat-rate fine, if it has slightly reduced the work of the police officers, has a mixed record; Above all, it does not stop the phenomenon. Your observation, Mr. Rapporteur, joins the one we set up on the occasion of the information mission: all circles are affected by cannabis, and drug dealers compete with imagination to reach more and more customers, the newspapers regularly comparing them to perfectly organized start-ups – selling on encrypted messaging networks, after-sales service and setting up promotions. The use and sale of cannabis are obviously public health issues, but they must also be considered in their economic and social dimension. Thus, as in an increasing number of countries around the world, whose experiences deserve more than a rough analysis, you propose a controlled legalization of cannabis, by entrusting to the authority of a public administrative institution the tasks of accreditation and control of the production and exploitation of cannabis. You also propose that the measure be accompanied by strict prohibitions on minors and on the outskirts of schools, as had been done in the past under the Tobacco and Alcohol Control Act, known as the Evin Act; You also support forms of cooperative market organization, which take into account the demand of our farmers who have been engaged for many years in a hemp industry; Finally, you stress the need for international cooperation in this area. You, too, have been carrying out a substantive work for several months, following a trans-partisan approach that I salute. Contrary to the dogmatic posture of the majority, which likes to caricature our position and prefers to defend the status quo rather than to bring concrete solutions to what should be a common fight, we will continue to support this proposal for a framework for consumption while advocating for a comprehensive public health plan. Of course, we would also have liked to have been able to address the issue of therapeutic cannabis, whose meagre experimentation – only 3000 patients are concerned – has just begun, as well as the issue of "cannabis well-being", the CBD, on which the Government's latest positions are totally incomprehensible in the light of European law and the reality of the sector in France, but I support, Mr rapporteur, your initiative to put on the agenda a subject for which the Government, despite the campaign speeches of the President of the Republic, refuses to make any progress. [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] It is for all these reasons that I have co-signed this text and that the majority of the Socialist and related groups will vote for it, in order to promote safe progress and to defend an ambitious and protective public health policy, within the framework of regulated legislation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u15	Mr Thomas Gassilloud has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u16	I have been instructed to convey to you the position of the Group of the European People's Party on the proposal for a law defended by our colleague Eric Coquerel on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Consideration of this bill comes a few months after the presentation of the report of our assembly's fact-finding mission on the regulation and impact of different uses of cannabis. At that time, its members had seen some failure in the repressive policy pursued in our country for more than fifty years. In fact, the ban and the penalisation did not stop trafficking: the cannabis market today weighs more than 1 billion euros, i.e. half of the total drug market in France. Nor has any repression led to a decline in consumption. On the contrary, with more than 5 million users, including 900000 daily users, it has never been so strong in France, and we continue to rank first in the ranking of Europe's largest consumers. The trivialization of consumption is all the more worrying among young people, whose brain is maturing. At 17 years of age, 40% of adolescents have already smoked cannabis, and the average age of experimentation is 15 – the lowest in Europe. The scientific community is, however, unanimous: not to mention the difficulties of concentration, memory loss or the risks of cancer and cardiovascular disease, it is proven that the early use of cannabis seriously increases the risk of developing psychiatric and schizophrenic disorders. We are therefore faced with an undeniably dangerous product, the consumption of which is ever more important, while the law is ever stricter with regard to it. Without denying the risks to the health of the body and the mind, especially among young consumers, it is therefore perfectly legitimate to ask ourselves about our current strategy, and to be tempted to consider a regulated legalization. So, is that the solution? The Action Together Group, in which diverse opinions are expressed on the legalization of cannabis, remains largely opposed, in particular in the form of this bill. On the substance, I would like to point out that we have not seen any decrease in consumption in countries where cannabis has been legalised; It is even the opposite, according to the examples of Canada and Uruguay. Furthermore, in the best cases, legalization will not change the consumption of minors, which will remain prohibited, whereas the main health threat concerns young people. As for the comparison with tobacco and alcohol, it is not relevant because you omit to talk about the irreversible consequences on the brain development of younger people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u17	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u18	Cannabis would not replace tobacco and alcohol: its harmful effects would be added to those of the latter two. Finally, you wrongly claim that the ban prevents prevention: Public Health France regularly conducts awareness campaigns on the risks associated with the use of cannabis. On the form – or rather the method – it seems to us both inappropriate and hasty to envisage the opening of this market through your bill. Legalisation cannot be content with a debate of parliamentary niche. It requires substantive, informed and thorough work and a broad public debate. More than 80 per cent of French people are in favour of organizing a wide-ranging debate on drug control policies. This bill is incomplete, which is quite normal since the subject it intends to deal with is too broad to bear the constraints of the exercise of the parliamentary niche. It ignores prevention, which is the best solution, on the application of specific taxes as well as on tobacco, on the risks of postponing consumption, on the construction of a sector and a specific French model. The bill is a single article, and many key issues remain outstanding. Thank you for giving us the opportunity to discuss this topic of societal importance, but we will certainly have the opportunity to return to it in the coming months. In the meantime, as you will understand, the Action Together group will vote mostly against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u19	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u20	Far from demonization or dramatization, we must be pragmatic in this debate on the legalization of cannabis production, sale and use. Basically, we all share the same observation: the illegal trade in cannabis is a massive phenomenon with harmful consequences for neighbourhoods and their inhabitants. Cannabis use is not recreational. To respond to these difficulties by legalizing is in my opinion a bad answer, first and foremost because it neglects the dangerousness of the product. This dangerousness is a consensus and has been repeatedly demonstrated, including by the mission of providing information on the regulation and impact of different uses of cannabis. The argument then mobilized is the traditional comparison with alcohol and cigarettes: why ban cannabis while these products, more dangerous in terms of lethality, are they legal? This reasoning is not convincing, as it amounts to relativising the risks specific to this psychotropic product: proven cardiovascular risk, development of respiratory diseases during combustion, risk of schizophrenia and other psychoses. In particular, its irreversible consequences for the brain development of younger people call for our collective responsibility. In this context, it seems illusory to want to enforce a minimum legal age for consumption, when it is already difficult to apply it for the sale of tobacco or alcohol. Engaged in the fight against nitrous oxide, I am only too familiar with the mechanisms of circumvention that can be at work and the difficulties posed by restrictions on access to a legal product. Therefore, in view of the risks involved, it appears disproportionate to expose adolescents to this product. We must also ask ourselves the question of the message sent by a legalization that would change the social acceptability of cannabis. The underlying idea behind recreational cannabis is to make the product "friendly", to use the word used by the President of the Republic in Nice this week. The image of cannabis is already positively rooted among young people, you will tell me. However, you will not take me away from the idea that making a product more accessible sends a message that contradicts that of preventing its health risks. As cannabis is not recreational, let us repeat, we must address the crucial issue of prevention. Once again, our positions diverge because, in my opinion, prevention is not opposed to penalisation, on the contrary: these policies are complementary in that they enable action to be taken both on demand and on supply. In Canada or Portugal, the decline in youth consumption is not directly attributable to decriminalization, but rather to massive investments in prevention and treatment of addiction. It is then necessary to remove the various obstacles and to develop a real health policy of addictions, cross-cutting and multidisciplinary. The strengthening of psychosocial skills from an early age, experienced by MILDECA, thus appears to be a very effective solution but still too little developed. These solutions, moreover, directly follow the conclusions of the educators I have met on the ground, who confirm that, far from being festive, cannabis is for many a loophole in the face of deeper problems. This policy cannot be without the fight against cannabis trafficking. This includes the safety of families living in affected neighbourhoods, as well as the false economic prospects opened up by this subsistence trade. We cannot rely on a hypothetical dewatering of traffic, on which we have little evidence through foreign examples. What the people on the ground are demanding is clear: security for them and their children. For all these reasons, we believe that our response must be that of responsibility for public health, without abandoning the fight against illegal supply. We will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u21	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u22	[[Smile on various benches]] Here we go! In this Chamber, the forum of French democracy, we will finally talk about cannabis, without the need to brandish a joint to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u23	Too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u24	Cannabis use has been banned for fifty years, so much so that the debate has been banned here, stifled by a cover of morals or pride. Here we go! I would like to thank our colleague Éric Coquerel, the La France group, and the Members of several benches for advancing the debate on the controlled legalization of cannabis. The base camp is progressing; the summit of this Everest will soon be reached. It is inevitable, we must all be aware of it. That being said, I have the impression that we have taken the north side – perhaps I should say the Darmanin side – to reach the summit, given the constraints against us, while other countries in Europe are moving forward after choosing the path of reason, that of scientists, studies and reports, all of which advocate an identical solution to treat this drug, cannabis. [[Exclaims and laughter on various benches]] Yes, cannabis is a drug. So what? Sex is one too! The whole question is how to combine trust in use and protection against overflows. Cannabis is a dangerous substance used every day by 1 million Frenchmen and regularly by 5 million of our citizens. His market cannot be entrusted to the traffickers. The President of the Republic remains in the case of adversarial statements. Cannabis users? He soon began to say that he wanted to piss them off, to call them irresponsible and therefore non-citizens. To the voters of Emmanuel Macron, who use or have used cannabis, I therefore recommend not to go to vote next April, since they are no longer citizens. As for the minister of the interior, Gérald Darmanin, we would have liked to question him, put him in front of his lies, his manipulations of figures. But he's not here. Last week, he didn't come either. As part of our Government's monitoring activities, on behalf of the Libertés et Territoires Group, I had initiated a debate on the prohibition of cannabis and the isolation of France at European Union level in this field. All the other countries are on a path of decriminalisation or even legalisation, like those narco-states that are Luxembourg and Germany – where our colleague François Jolivet does not have to go often. It is not an offence for you, Secretary of State for Children and Families, to say that we were hoping for the presence of the Minister of the Interior. You represent the Government, which is very good. But if he had been there, Gérald Darmanin could have explained himself on the fake news that he uttered in the context of the drug war he said he was leading. We have the impression of returning to the communiqués of the Ministry of War, after the defeat of 24 August 1914, during the famous battle of the Frontiers. We would have liked him to read us the letters of his Canadian, American, Uruguayan, Portuguese or Dutch counterparts, in which they explain that they are going to go back because they are wrong, have made a mistake by embarking on legalization or decriminalization. He could have explained to us how he can twist the statistics of his ministry. While 4% of the deaths on the roads are due to cannabis, official communication blames him for one in five fatal accidents. Cédric Villani could perhaps help him in mathematics... Above all, we would have liked to understand why a decree written by the industrial lobby came on 31 December last prohibiting the sale of cannabis leaves, flowers and herbal tea to cannabidiol. [[Smile]] Last week, Sarah El Haïry, Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, provided us with quite baroque explanations. A little embarrassed, she told us it was so that they couldn't be mixed with tobacco. Tobacco's okay, CBD, it's not okay. Another argument is that a product with false pharmacopoeial claims should not be offered for sale. In that case, let's ban ginger too! The end of the CBD sector in France is above all the end of local peasant agricultural production. Saturday, I was on the Millevaches plateau in the Creuse, at Jean-Baptiste Moreau's. One of his friends, a farmer, saw the value of his harvest rise from 500,000 euros to 5000 euros in one night. Who's going to benefit from it? Agro-industry. Downstream, thousands of shops and perhaps thousands of jobs will disappear at once. It's more than a big social plan. At a time when France is taking the presidency of the European Union, how are you going to explain to your counterparts that more prohibition is needed? What happens when a German family crosses France to go to Spain with its flowers, CBD and cannabis resin? Will it be worried, arrested or benefit from a regime other than that applied to the French? [[Applause on the SOC and FI benches]] I am reminded of the debates on the voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG). The defenders of the IVG referred to the dramatic, sometimes fatal, consequences of the approximately 200,000 annual clandestine abortions. A certain reactionary and moralist right agitated the fear of the explosion of the number of abortions and responded: prevention, prevention, prevention. Finally, they are people from the right but of progress, Simone Veil and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, who, allied to the left, allowed the legalization of IVG in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u25	Nice intervention!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u26	The general discussion is closed. Mr Eric Coquerel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u27	For the moment, the debate has been the one I was hoping for: an exchange of arguments and support for the text from several groups, even if we will have to consider a little more caricatural amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u28	In addition to those of La France, a majority of members of the SOC and LT groups are in favour of the bill. Most of the groups that still oppose it nevertheless congratulate us on having presented it – I am thinking of the LaREM, GDR, Dem and Agir ens groups. It's a satisfaction because we wanted to show that something was happening. Supporters of the legalization of cannabis are no longer accused of wanting to drug our youth and aggravate addiction. We are all seeking to weaken – and even eradicate – drug trafficking and to limit the negative health effects of various psychotropic products, including cannabis. [[Smile]] On the other hand, I have noted various questions that I would like to answer – although I will start with an observation, Mr. Secretary of State. In a way, I am glad that it is not Gérald Darmanin who is in front of me tonight, because the debate would have been more caricatural. Your intervention seemed to me to be more in line with what candidate Macron said in 2016. On France Inter that year, he said that "cannabis poses a problem of security, of connection with crime in difficult neighbourhoods, of financing occult networks", so that "the legalization of cannabis has interests [...] and a form of efficiency". According to him, "the subject is open and must be considered". "When we look at the inability of magistrates to solve the problem from a criminal point of view, I think we are in a very hypocritical system," he added. "At the same time" – what is normal from him – he said he understood "the public health concerns... expressed elsewhere", the subject being not "light", and said he wished to "open this subject" and "address it in a methodical manner" in the weeks that followed, indicating that he was not "against" legalization, "in a principle of efficiency and justice". We are therefore very far from the interview given recently to the Parisian and, quite frankly, by hearing you, Mr Secretary of State, I had the impression that you were closer to the 2016 version of the "at the same time", than to some recent statements, and in particular the counter-truths of the Minister of the Interior. I am satisfied with this, because it shows that things can change: that is what we want. I will now respond to several points, starting with the decline in the consumption of young people, observed – as I said in my opening speech – in France and around the world in recent years. This decline is due to several reasons and is true regardless of the policy adopted at the national level. We can be pleased with this, even if cannabis use can be replaced by other addictive practices, such as bets or video games, which are more individualizing the issue of addictions, since they are not solely related to psychotropic products – without that being a source of reassurance. Cannabis use has also declined in favour of other products much cheaper than can be found in places as easy to access as large areas: I am thinking in particular of the product to inflate balloons, whose bags are found everywhere. Furthermore, the decline in tobacco use has also contributed to the decline in cannabis use. The latter, on the other hand, is not due to public policies, at least those that prohibit the product. As you have said very clearly, the reduction is also observed in countries that have legalised the use of cannabis for adults – that of minors remains of course prohibited. I repeat again: the decline in consumption is not the result of prohibition. Some speakers also argued that legalization would not have a positive effect on traffic. In this case, we cannot rely on the results of the model closest to the one we want to establish, that of Quebec, without retaining those relating to traffic. In two years, the illicit trade in cannabis has decreased by 60 per cent. I assure you that with such a decline in traffic, the lives of many people in the populous neighbourhoods of my constituency would be changed. This is a fact to be considered because, while it is true, as one speaker has said, that there will always be a black market for cannabis – there is one of the cigarettes – it is, however, a significant drop in the illicit trade, which could also allow the police to reorient themselves towards the fight against other trafficking. Some stakeholders also indicated that legalization would lead to a transfer of substance use to other, harder drugs, but there is no study to demonstrate this. It seems to me that Caroline Janvier himself noted this in the information report on the regulation and impact of the various uses of cannabis and, for my part, I am witnessing it in my constituency. When a young person attends a deal point to buy cannabis and also sells cocaine there, he will move more easily to this product than if, because of its legalization, the sale of cannabis is completely dissociated from that of other drugs. I insist: there is no evidence that legalizing cannabis would increase the use of other drugs. Mr Dive, as far as you are concerned, you have insisted on the example of the United States or, at least, on the first phase of legalisation in this country. However, as I said in my first speech, we do not claim this model. Cannabis has been legalized, if I may say, according to the rules of pure capitalism, with a gentrification of the sale and all that it can produce in terms of toxicity. Rather than this example, we want to follow the model of State control. It was also noted that adult consumption had increased in Quebec, which is true. In view of this, however, it would be interesting to consider two points. First, it is observed that the increase in adult use is strongly related to the drug use of cannabis, particularly by seniors. Then, what is the toxicity of cannabis sold in this province? In other words, if you legalize a cannabis whose THC content – tetrahydrocannabinol – is less important, which is less related to tobacco use and which, ultimately, is less dangerous to health, you will use a less toxic cannabis, even if you consume more than before, when it was banned. In France, where THC levels are the highest in Europe and other substances are used to cut cannabis, the health risks will be even lower. As far as prevention policy is concerned, it is indeed a very interesting issue. I have acknowledged that, because we must give the facts, France is not inactive in this area. MILDECA is making efforts and is inspired in particular by what is being done in Portugal. So we go a little further than we did for years, just saying that cannabis was a prohibited product and that it should not be consumed. Because, no more than that on tobacco or alcohol use, this type of message has no effect on cannabis use. The reduction of tobacco and alcohol consumption is only a matter of use and risk. To say that alcohol is bad for health and that it is in any case forbidden to consume it would have no effect: one would only try to persuade that one cannot drink it. MILDECA conducts local experiments, but it is a comprehensive and systematic policy in schools that we need. However, as I explained earlier, such a mechanism would require spending more than 10 per cent of the budgets allocated to the fight against cannabis. This is a fundamental problem, because as long as we maintain a prohibition policy, we will not accept that the product exists, that it is necessary to reduce its consumption, in a completely drastic and definitive way among young people, in order to reduce its health consequences. Members of the IDU and independent groups and the Republicans, if I am not mistaken, have just mentioned the risks associated with the use of cannabis. Yes, this substance is very dangerous; No one denies it. There are risks of addiction, respiratory and cardiovascular risks, or accident risks, if driven after consumption. But to listen to this list, I wondered if you did not describe the risks associated with alcohol use, because they are statistically more important than for cannabis. Whether we want it or not, that's what the figures say, at the global level. Yes, the risks associated with cannabis exist and perhaps you also want to ban alcohol and cigarettes, but the least we can say is that it is not prohibition, as we apply it to cannabis, that has allowed us to reduce alcohol or tobacco consumption so strongly for the past 60 years. And this can no doubt serve as an example. Finally, some speakers, such as those from the working Republic and Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, stressed that it was not appropriate to deal with such an issue in a parliamentary niche. I have recognized this from the outset, while pointing out that the explanatory memorandum of the bill contains all the elements to regulate legalization, both in terms of prevention, repression and social reintegration. Depending on your sensitivities and as long as you found the question interesting, nothing prevented you, colleagues, from taking over these elements and tabling amendments, so that we would draw up and vote together on the text. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – MM. Alain David, Jean-Paul Dufrègne and François-Michel Lambert also applaud]] That being said, I would prefer to retain the fact that you have said that this debate is desirable and that, if this was not the right time to legislate, the issue of legalization of cannabis arose: I find this rather encouraging. I have even noted that Mrs de Vaucouleurs felt that it would be appropriate to address this issue during the presidential campaign. I see this as a reason for hope: it falls well, the candidate I support is in favour of legalizing cannabis under state control.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u29	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text. On Amendments Nos 1 and 1 identical, on Article 1, on Amendments Nos 8 and 8 identical, on Article 2, and on the whole of the draft law, I have received a request for a public vote from the La France group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u30	Mr David Corceiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u31	For or against? It is now important to open this question. A European leader in the production of industrial hemp, with nearly 1500 producers and 18000 hectares cultivated, France is one of the last six Member States of the European Union not to authorise the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. The hemp industry is one of the oldest in France. Its use is transversal, ranging from insulation to textiles, gardening, cosmetics, electronic cigarette liquids, the automotive industry, but also cannabis-based products and medicines. With regard to the latter, farmers are allowed to export their production, but cannot sell it in France. It is therefore our collective responsibility to address this issue and to establish the position of the French Parliament. The subject deserves in-depth reflection on societal, scientific and economic issues. On 26 March 2021, France began a medical cannabis experiment with patients with serious diseases. This first step is part of the issues that I have just addressed, and the conclusions of the evaluation report will allow us to feed into our thinking. Let us keep in mind that the debate raises health, economic and, of course, safety issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u32	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u33	[[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] I did not initially intend to speak, but I wanted to pay tribute to the bill proposed by our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, which, after some fifty years of hypocrisy, still has the merit of introducing into this House a debate which is all the more important because it concerns a phenomenon of society. I was mocking Mr Corbière earlier on his proposal for a revocative referendum: what is being discussed here seems to me to be much more serious. I believe, like many other speakers I have heard, that, beyond the question of legalization alone, it would be appropriate to consider the root causes of cannabis use, which have meant that, for the past 50 years, French youth have sought to put a veil on the reality surrounding it. Some of these deep reasons are probably beyond the scope of this House. Regardless of this, I honestly wonder about the relevance of legalization. A national debate that would go beyond our venerable hemicycle, a peaceful debate on practices that have changed a great deal over the last 50 years, would be the least of all. Cannabis use has become widespread, and we never really care about it. I also wonder about the reality of the drop in consumption that legalisation would have led to where it takes place. We can also imagine that it has led to a conversion of traffic. As for prevention, I also express my doubts about its psychological implications. We're trying to warn, but what exactly are we warning? I believe that these are major issues that deserve discussion. I share the feeling, repeatedly mentioned, that the consideration of a bill, on the margins, one evening, does not allow the whole issue to be addressed. This text is not the right vehicle, even if, once again, it initiates a real debate. That is why I reiterate my interest in this bill, while recalling that the Group of the European People's Party will not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u34	Mrs. Annie Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u35	Mr rapporteur, your proposal for a law provides a well-documented picture of cannabis use, sweeps away the whole issue and invites us to debate and think about it. However, when we go a little further and look at what you propose through this text, we realize that the main article of the bill opens all the doors of consumption, through legalisation. You base your initial analysis on the fact that this decision must be supported by a public health policy, which I obviously adhere to. But, in writing this article, I do not see where this famous public health policy is. While you rightly say that young people are particularly affected by cannabis use, I also do not see how we will accompany them after their legalization. I do not see any more how we will do a little bit of prevention. And I do not see how we will regulate consumption, nor what justifies your certainty that it will be reduced through legalization.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u36	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u37	[[Mrs. Danièle Obono applauds]] One can quite understand that there are fears and fears. When you're a parent or an educator, you have a lot of questions. But is there another area in which a policy that has been so little successful for fifty years is not being called into question? That's what surprises me a lot. It is in fact an ideological posture, a refusal to take into account the elements of everyday reality. As the rapporteur said earlier, considering that a 60 % reduction in the black market is not an interesting figure is condescending towards the foreign countries that have come to something, even if that does not mean that everything is settled there.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u39	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] On the other hand, you blame the bill for not going far enough in terms of prevention. We are doing everything to be effective, but we are aware that a niche text cannot speak of everything: it is on the principle that we are discussing. Let us also stop the hypocrisy of the fact that prevention tools are under-used, inadequate or insufficient to solve the problem. We are relatively in agreement with the finding, with a few exceptions. It seems to me that we should be a little more ambitious. The Republic on the move blames us for not proposing anything. But have you, in five years, proposed anything? No, nothing, absolutely nothing. You will have to change your position; We can't go on like this for fifty years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u40	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u41	I regret that there are some caricatures in these exchanges that are sometimes heard in the mouths of ministers. We have the feeling that anyone who advocates the legalization of cannabis would be a supporter of smoking. No, not at all! This is clearly explained in the proposed legislation. I would even say that it is the current situation that is involved in the expansion of cannabis. We are one of the most repressive countries, but also one of the most consumer countries. It is the status quo that creates the danger, on the one hand because, as Mr Coquerel has said, traffic is ruining the lives of the neighbourhoods where it is running, but also because by closing the eyes on consumption we cannot control the products, which are always stronger. The bill we're looking at tonight proposes to make cannabis a real public health issue, which means we don't want to put our eyes on it by refusing to talk about it. On the contrary, there is a need to regulate existing consumption by means of a chain that allows the State to control products. That is what we want to do. That is why we are not and will never be in favour of the intermediate solution of decriminalisation, which is simply aimed at letting the traffic run. No! We want to stop trafficking, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to carry out a genuine public health policy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. Michèle Victory and François-Michel Lambert also applaud]] So please don't make supporters of the legalization of cannabis the promoters of its use! To do nothing is to promote a more dangerous consumption every day and a traffic against which we do nothing effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u42	I have before me four identical deletion amendments, Nos 3, 7, 9 and 16. Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u43	It is intended to delete Article 1. On the one hand, the arguments set out in the explanatory memorandum seem to ignore the dangerousness of a product, whose irreversible psychological and cerebral consequences on young people are no longer to be demonstrated. On the other hand, the effects of legalisation on the drying up of illegal trafficking are uncertain, since the causal link between prohibition and consumption is not demonstrated. I would add that the foreign experiments often cited are, as I said in general discussion, specific contexts and do not lead to a significant reduction in the use of cannabis. I disagree with the argument that a preventive approach would be contradictory to the fight against cannabis trafficking.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u44	Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u45	I had planned an argument that the previous interventions led me to change. You propose to create a public cannabis marketing establishment, i.e. a public cannabis service; It's respectable, and it's good that some people think that way. Nevertheless, you justify this proposal by the fact that it would allow for a public policy of prevention. In fact, it would be forbidden to ban, and since we do not want to ban, it would be better to accompany people to convince them not to use the product. I admit that reasoning surprises me and refers me to very distant years – I was two years old. Let us take a closer look at the examples mentioned. As my colleague reassures himself, I always go to Switzerland and Germany. On the other hand, when Interpol judges tell me about the situation in the Netherlands, it worries me. The cannabis public service went bankrupt and, of course, those who lost their market, i.e. black market traffickers, increased the THC rate. In Spain, where no one talks about the legalization of cannabis, everyone is concerned. Yes, Mr.Coquerel, everyone is concerned, because the legalization of consumption means that young people, in the process of building their personality, are no longer crossing the limit of the ban with cannabis, but with much stronger products. I thank the Group of the European People's Party for putting this debate on the agenda. But, since we have to say everything, cannabis traffickers don't just sell cannabis, they also trade something else.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u47	That's the point!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u48	They will therefore want to regain their market share. If I believe a report from the European Union, consumption of alternative products would have increased in the Netherlands; Quebecers are in the process of reversing, which proves that things are not working as well as expected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u49	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u50	In any case, Canada is very concerned about the future of the direction it has taken. For all these reasons, because the explanatory memorandum does not address our concerns, I am against the creation of the public cannabis service. I am one of the parliamentarians who consider that it is not forbidden to ban, and I prefer to support the police forces.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u51	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u52	Legalizing cannabis, even under state control, is only a decoy. It's putting drugs within the reach of everyone, within the reach of our children, with the devastating effects on health and deviant behaviour that can result. It's supporting addiction and gearing to the toughest drugs. Legalizing cannabis is also the state that becomes a trading partner and is enriched by distress, misery and human health. On the contrary, we must be more firm about cannabis and drugs. We must fight this scourge, we must prevent rather than legalize it. That is why it is essential to delete this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u53	I call Mr Belkhir Belhaddad to support Amendment No. 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u54	I do not want to let it be said in this chamber that we have done nothing on the subject. We have allowed the use of "well-being cannabis" and allowed the testing of therapeutic cannabis on 3,000 patients, an experiment that is beginning to bear fruit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u55	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u56	On the other hand, the legalization of recreational cannabis is a choice of society with strong symbolic and political implications, which is not without consequences for public health and safety: the proposed legislative vehicle does not make it possible to do so. Moreover, dealing with such a complex subject at the end of the legislature, with a single article, without a global vision, has little meaning and will not be effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u58	We must not forget that cannabis, as has been said many times, is a dangerous psychotropic substance with harmful consequences. This is why the possibility of legalisation requires a considerable amount of time to adapt. This is a complex subject, which we must deal with through a social debate, by consulting all citizens. For these reasons, the La République en marche group proposes the deletion of the article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u61	I am obviously opposed to these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u62	I would like to take the floor to thank the co-signatories of this text, because I am not sure that they will have the opportunity to speak. In addition to my comrades and colleagues from France, these are Caroline Janvier, Hubert Julien-Laferrière, François-Michel Lambert, Jean-Baptiste Moreau, Matthieu Orphelin, Michèle Victory, Aurélien Taché and Ludovic Mendes. Among them are several members of the majority who – it's no coincidence – have been part of the information mission on the regulation and impact of the different uses of cannabis. Why am I saying it's not a coincidence? Because each time we notice the same phenomenon: all the people – up to some Republicans, like Robin Reda, who did not want to co-sign this bill of La France insubmissive – who begin to work seriously on the subject, without eyes, and audition specialists end up ruling in favour of legalization. They come to the same conclusion each time: it is the only possible policy, for all the reasons that have been stated. I also thank the administrators who helped us in this work. It was necessary for someone to reinvigorate the controversy by drawing up the counter-truths that are unfortunately used to hearing in this debate: it was my colleague Jolivet who lent himself to it, with pugnacity and " talent", but the studies he cited are false. There is a real fact, that not a single country that has embarked on legalization under state control has gone back. On the contrary, Germany and Switzerland will soon follow. Mrs Dreifuss, former President of the Swiss Confederation, today Chairman of the Global Commission on Drug Policy (GCDP), who is working on the issue on a global scale, told us that Switzerland had initially taken a rather liberal path – I said we were not in favour – but that the country had interrupted experience and was now preparing a law in favour of legalisation under state control. The figures you quote that the explosion of consumption would not change traffic, Mr Jolivet, are false: if these countries do not go back, they have no no nostalgia for the previous prohibition policy, with the consequences we know in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u63	The question, therefore, is not whether one is for firmness or not, whether or not one supports the police forces. It's a Danaid barrel. [[Mr. Adrien Quatennens applauds]] Perhaps we differ on this point, but we will not succeed in eradicating all psychoactive products from our societies. This is not possible – even for licit products. Something in man's nature makes him consume it. We therefore prefer to regulate, control and reduce this consumption, to make it ever less dangerous and prevent it from creating a traffic that rots people's lives, rather than letting it close its eyes to its increase and development everywhere. That is the question we are being asked! And quite frankly, if you dig, you'll find that she didn't get an answer. Finally, I come to the decriminalization of cannabis in Portugal and elsewhere, addressed by our colleague Pujol. Danièle Obono quoted the figures earlier: it is not true that drug trafficking remains unpunished in France. Let us pay tribute to the police and to the justice system, which enforces the laws. As Danièle Obono pointed out, in France, drug trafficking results in 57,000 convictions per year and 20% of those detained in prison are for a reason linked to them – most of them are users. That's the reality! Let us not say that justice does not do its job! In Seine-Saint-Denis, we recently organized a meeting with the police to solve the problem of an oven – a point of sale of drugs – infernal for the inhabitants. Well, the agents tell us that justice follows. Simply, when the demand is so strong, you can do whatever you want, stop all the small hands, the traffickers will hire others – at the moment, the fashion is to recruit young minors isolated from abroad – and that will be endless. Therefore, because it is necessary for the state to prevent traffickers from rotting people's lives, I see no other way than to get them involved, just as they did with tobacco and alcohol. The United States has come back on the prohibition of alcohol. Our colleague is talking about narco-states. As for me, I have confidence in the ability of the French State to address this issue for public health, in the general interest, to reduce trafficking and not to develop it, we do not know for what purposes – the accusation seems strange to me. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I therefore oppose the deletion of section 1e r and thank once again those of our colleagues who have agreed to co-sign this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u64	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u65	I am not in line with Adrien Quatennens' analysis, because I do not think that the debate and arguments were caricatural tonight. On the contrary, I find them interesting; They are in line with the work carried out in this House, which the rapporteur and I welcomed this afternoon in our introductory remarks. We share a finding. On both sides, there is no naivety, but a common concern for health promotion and risk prevention. However, our solutions differ and we draw different conclusions from foreign experiences, so that our positions do not agree. Like all of you who are interested in these subjects of society – on which it is difficult not to take a position, as I said in my opening remarks – I have been following these questions, in a personal capacity, for many years. Well, I think that the debate is moving forward, that it is pacifying, that it is rationalizing itself. However, the Government's position remains well-founded, consistent and consistent; It is in favour of risk prevention and health promotion, the reaffirmation of the penal prohibition, the fight against banality. For working in another life, in another context, on the trivialization of drugs, whether it be cannabis or other drugs, including cocaine, I assure you that combating this banality is still the best way to combat the use of psychotropic drugs, especially by young people. It is our responsibility as adults, parents, educators, legislators to assert this prohibition and, at the same time, to pursue a strong prevention policy. That is what we have been doing, with this majority and all together, for the past four years. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] In line with my remarks in the general discussion and without much surprise, the Government therefore gives a favourable opinion on these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u66	Mrs Caroline Janvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u67	I have been defending the same position for the past three years, namely a regulated legalisation – which is not an open door to banalisation, let alone promotion of cannabis use – for a simple reason, which was recalled this evening. For fifty years, we have relied on a unique response, that of the law of 31 December 1970: the repression and prohibition of the use of cannabis, with the results we know. The French are the champions of Europe for the use of this drug; They also occupy a place on the podium for consumption by young people, the very ones that must be protected as a matter of priority, and for problematic uses, with effects on education – dropping out of school – in addition to all the risks we have mentioned. Based on such a finding of the ineffectiveness of our public policy on cannabis, we need to look at what is being done elsewhere. I am thinking of Canada, where the age of entry into cannabis use declined after its legalization, with a decline in the use of 15-17 year-olds. I am also thinking of Portugal, where the use of cannabis has been decriminalised and where its use is three times less than in France. I'm afraid your approach is ideological; It's a little easy to get caught up in moral discourses by saying that drugs are bad, and that it must therefore be banned – end of story! Unfortunately, it has been clear for fifty years that this approach has not achieved the desired results: some neighbourhoods are damaged by traffic, their inhabitants are unable to do so and young people are not protected. [[Applause on a few SOC benches]] I am therefore in favour of legalization, in order to take control of trafficking that has eluded us for fifty years and which, let us recall, are managed by criminals, by mafia networks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u68	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u69	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mrs Bénédicte Taurine also applauds]] This is an important clarification: although we said earlier that a majority of the members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left did not support this bill, we want the debate to take place. We will therefore vote against these deletion amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u70	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u71	The debate is finally taking place. Is he soothed? Perhaps: we can satisfy ourselves with the way we approach each other. I come to the arguments put forward, in particular by those who believe that any legalization of cannabis would be tantamount to lowering the flag, to abandoning it. As I said earlier in the rostrum, there were the same objections to the legalization of abortion – that legalizing it would mean abandoning, ignoring prevention, giving up explaining to women why it is not necessary to abort, why they should avoid becoming pregnant, and so on.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u72	Comparison is not right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u73	These were the same arguments: if you legalize abortions, their number will explode, the demography will collapse and France will become in the midst of humanity a raft of La Méduse. What about 50 years later? Everyone can judge: there were then 200,000 abortions per year; the number is the same today. France has 1 million daily cannabis users, 5 million regular users; 45% of adults have used cannabis at least once in their lives. It's more than a third of us. Could these figures be reduced to zero by a policy of repression and prevention which unfortunately is not up to the level and by the policy of moralization advocated by the President of the Republic? No one here can believe it. We need to find a way. The one proposed to us this evening by the Group of the European People's Party and the rapporteur, Éric Coquerel, allows us at least to send a message in the run-up to the presidential election: we cannot wait any longer and we must do the same as all other countries, starting with Germany, our friendly country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u74	Many colleagues would like to speak. To the extent that these are deletion amendments and if our colleagues in the La France group, whose day is reserved, accept this, I will give the floor to several speakers so that the debate can take place.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u75	That's wise, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u76	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u77	As I have had the opportunity to say in the general discussion, the debate on this subject must take place. However, it would be more appropriate for it to be at the time of the presidential election, because we will not make much progress on the issue tonight – but it is up to the group La France insoubted to decide whether it wants to devote more time to this text or move on to the next one. I think we've already said things to each other. Within the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group, everyone will vote as he or she sees fit on these deletion amendments. Some wish to continue the debate; For my part, it seems to me that we can decide now.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u78	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u79	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our colleague Lambert is right to point out that the debate, far from being electric, is rather calm. To keep this state of mind, let's avoid comparing the proposed legalization with anything – in this case the Veil law, when it's something else. Let's not get into this kind of excess. Mr rapporteur, you mentioned one of our colleagues, Robin Reda. He is not there to defend himself: out of respect for him, thank you for not engaging him in these debates. It would have been more prudent to let him express himself. Finally, Mr rapporteur, this debate could have taken another path. You have chosen to present as part of your parliamentary niche a text proposing the legalization of cannabis. There is another possibility, its decriminalization, which would remove the delictious nature of its use while maintaining its prohibition. This would become an administrative offence, which would require the authorities to accompany those found guilty. There would be an intermediate position between your wish – to which I am opposed, as well as my group – and an expectation that manifests itself in society. Adopting the subject from this perspective would have given another twist to our discussions this evening.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u80	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u81	Even if I know that we will not go around the subject, we want to develop some arguments. Because it is a matter of public health, society and safety, we must go to the bottom of things. If we can go beyond the discourse of the environment and ensure that the well-founded, hurried arguments that have been put forward are heard and shared in society, this will already be a step forward. That has been said and recalled, this proposal does not come out of the egg: work has been carried out under this legislature and under the previous one. We have 50 years of experience in the health, justice and security sectors on this subject, both nationally and internationally. I have referred to the eminent members of the Global Drug Policy Commission, including heads of State who have carried out the toughest, most violent, murderous and similar drug policies in their country. We do not make this proposal to debotty: it is pragmatic in nature. I do not oppose it to any ideological position; These can be entirely legitimate. On the other hand, the dogmatism of some of them is problematic, because it ignores reality. Much has been said about the consumption of young people, which is problematic, but which is not the majority. We gave the figures: 900000 young people out of 5 million regular consumers. They therefore do not represent the majority of consumers. In order to carry out a genuine policy of prevention among young people, legalization and a comprehensive policy with means are necessary. This is not what has been done in the last fifty years; We must also take this stock and, as parliamentarians, we are here to do so. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI group]] We did not have the opportunity to include many articles in the bill, but the explanatory memorandum sets out the lines of a comprehensive policy that we could pursue. It is a pity that it was not under this legislature, but we have the opportunity today to lay a foundation stone. That is why we must reject the deletion amendments and at least adopt Article 1, which will call for a continuation – perhaps a parliamentary shuttle – at least in the next parliamentary term. This question will come back: to ensure that it is in the best possible conditions, for the people concerned and for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u82	Mr Xavier Paluszkiewicz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u83	Mr rapporteur, Mr Coquerel, despite all the respect I have for you, I cannot let you quote my colleagues from the majority and say that they would be the only ones who would be in favour of legalising cannabis because they are part of the parliamentary fact-finding mission. I'm a part of it myself and I'm not opposed to legalization. Their signature, as you know, gives support to the subject you are defending and not to the text itself. My criticism of the bill is that it is not successful – it is clear from the reading of section 1. She has at least the merit, I recognize, of putting the subject on the table – in any case, on our benches. Like Mrs de Vaucouleurs, I hope that it will be one of those that will be debated in the presidential election campaign and, why not, in the general elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u84	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u85	We talk about banalisation – the term is used quite often. With the numbers that have been given, it cannot be said that this is not trivial. When you're an educator or teacher and you're close to young people, you have to recognize that cannabis is a common product; the numbers say so. Moreover, does the fact that this is commonplace contradict the ban? Cannabis may be banned, but this does not prevent it from being regularly used and relatively commonplace. You will also have to look at the motivations: why so many young people smoke cannabis – a prohibited product? This issue may need to be addressed. When we talk about policies to support young people, which make them think more seriously about these issues, we are quite far from it. All issues must be addressed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u86	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u87	I would like to thank Mr Coquerel and the La France Group for putting this debate on our agenda. As rapporteur-general of the fact-finding mission, of which Caroline Janvier was a thematic rapporteur, and in her personal capacity, I can only be against the deletion amendments and in favour of the bill. We must stop presenting those who are in favour of legalizing cannabis as chichon smokers who would like everyone to smoke on the street, including young people. We have a million daily consumers; Perhaps more, because we know that in situations of prohibition, people spontaneously say less than they actually do. We had the example of the prohibition of alcohol in the 1930s: it does not work on such massive consumptions of astounding substances, it only stimulates trafficking. The same policies have been applied throughout the world for 30 years: they do not work anywhere. Even where there are lifetime prison sentences, executions for drug trafficking, consumption continues or even develops. You can always put more law enforcement forces... I had no preconceived opinion before the start of the information mission; I didn't know if I was for or against legalization. We have listened to doctors and law enforcement officials. I still remember the testimony of a commissioner of the narcotics brigade: the time to dissolve a network, he explained, three others form, wage war, sowing disorder and killing in the neighborhoods, until one takes over and replaces the one that was dissolved. As our colleague Coquerel said, they feel like they are emptying the ocean with a spoon or desert with a fork. [[François-Michel Lambert applauds]] You can do what you want: a solution that has never worked anywhere for thirty years will not work; We need to change the software. We see several countries, such as Germany or the United States at the federal level, changing and moving towards legalization. It cannot be said that these are societally ultraliberal countries, nor very flexible in terms of the rules of life in society.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u88	As you noted, the debates on cannabis are much more calmed than they were earlier on glyphosate. I don't know why, but I thank you for this: it is a pleasure to preside over this kind of debate! I put to the vote identical amendments Nos 3, 7, 9 and 16.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u89	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 80 Number of votes cast 77 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 53 Against 24
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u90	The floor is open to Mr François Jolivet, in support of the deletion amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u91	I welcome this soothing debate and learn a lot from you. I have a real concern: I hear that consumption is increasing, but not everyone agrees. It has certainly increased over the years, but one of you said it was decreasing. You say there are a million consumers; compared to the general population, this means that a very large majority of French people do not use cannabis. The consumer is therefore the exception. I am a former managing director of HLM: in our neighbourhoods, cannabis use could be perceived as banal, but not all French people are consumers. I understand that the minister in the gallery said that the consumption of young people is falling. This means that the policy of prevention that the Government has put in place – thanks to you, Mr. Secretary of State – is beginning to work. As much as I understand the debate, I do not understand the wording of the text. With Jean-Baptiste Moreau, we have a divergence on this subject, while agriculture brings us together instead! I understand the substance of it, but I do not understand how it is expressed or how we share it. This is a first in this House, but the debate should be shared with the French. One of my colleagues, who was part of the mission, is not a signatory to the bill. Perhaps this issue will be addressed in the context of the presidential campaign. For my part, I note that every day the police force makes arrests, judges judge and some, after being arrested, stop consuming and sometimes selling.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u92	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u93	Article 2 was logical only in relation to Article 1, since it was a financial pledge linked to the obligations laid down in Article 40; So it's not very important. I would like to say a first thing again, to reply to Mr Jolivet and not to let the truth be said. Many arguments have been exchanged, with which one can agree more or less, but to suggest that if, tomorrow, cannabis is legalized under state control, all French people will begin to consume it is a counter-truth confirmed by the state of affairs in all the countries that legalized it. Don't let it say things like that! That's not true! Let's try to talk about things that are not fantasies – I don't even know why they exist. Secondly, it has been recalled by our colleague Moreau, we would all dream of a situation where, for thirty years, trafficking has been eradicated by the police and consumption has ceased. But that's not what's going on! Every minister of the interior says that he will be stronger than the previous one: more and more people are being arrested, more and more police forces are spending their time on petty trafficking – in connection with a policy of the number – but contrary to what you say, it does not eliminate trafficking! That's the reality! If you want to see this, come to my constituency: I invite you, Mr Jolivet! Come and see what's going on: you'll see that it doesn't eradicate! Some mayors manage to have discussions with such a minister of the interior, who will put more police forces in their city. Traffic then moves in the city next door, because consumption continues, and demand does not decline. Our socialist colleague has said this well: with a million daily consumers, practice is not a minority, it responds to something, to a request. Similarly, alcohol consumption responds to a demand. I don't know how many of you were, during the interruption of our work, dining and drinking a little wine – probably a lot of them did. This responds to societal demands. For alcohol, it is not a matter of drinking two liters of wine and creating an addiction; It's the same for cannabis. Globally, the figures show that alcohol and tobacco are otherwise more harmful and dangerous. I do not say this for pleasure; I wish we could stop things, but that's not the case. I understand some of the arguments, but colleagues who are inviting us to take time are somewhat exaggerating. I go back to candidate Macron's statement I quoted earlier: he was five years old to move things forward. Due to the introduction of the bill as part of a parliamentary niche, we reduced the issue to one article, but we warned and the explanatory memorandum contains almost everything. So we had time to examine it. I am convinced that this subject will come back. My great fear, I repeat, is that legalization will end up being automatic and that we will open shops, perhaps bars with CBD, which would gradually develop a marketing of cannabis without any state control. It is a prospect that scares me a lot, because illegal trafficking would move to the most marketable and capitalist version of something that is not desirable. The more we anticipate regulation and as long as there is a majority to want it in this context – which is mostly desired – the better for the country. That's what I meant in conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u95	Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u96	I put Amendment No. 8 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u97	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 78 Number of votes cast 73 Absolute majority 37 For adoption 54 Against 19
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u98	As all the articles were deleted, the bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u99	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u100	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u101	The next item is the discussion, under the simplified procedure, pursuant to Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, of the bill to rehabilitate the military "stripped for example" during the First World War (Nos. 4636, 4876). On the proposal for a law, I am asked by the La France group to ask for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u102	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u103	It is based on the first paragraph of Article 42 of the Regulation. Everyone knows that the Law Commission is currently reviewing the bill to strengthen the tools for managing the health crisis and to amend the public health code during a parliamentary niche. The La France insoumée group is a small group, but the committee only suspends its work during the presentation of the texts at the sitting; After the speeches of the minister and the rapporteur, we return to committee. We can't keep running like this until midnight. We ask for permission to participate in the parliamentary niche of our group until the sitting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u104	The Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u105	For the proper organisation of our work, I would point out to the Group of the European People's Party that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure planned to meet at twenty-one hours this evening in the event of the failure of the Joint Joint Committee, as stated in the summons transmitted several days ago. The group La France insoumée had not told me of any protest on this point. For all Members, I have set the beginning of our work at twenty-two hours this evening in order to meet a deadline for tabling amendments. I told the La France Group that we would apply the rules in practice in the Committee on Laws for four and a half years now, i.e. our work would continue during the general discussion of the texts discussed at the sitting, but that I would suspend so that Members could vote on the amendments or the texts. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As they have made several protests, I have relaxed the rule and allowed the presence in the Chamber during the presentation of the texts, i.e. the speeches of the minister and the rapporteur of La France insoumée; I ask them in advance to apologise for this, but I will continue the work of the Law Committee. I try to respect all the groups present as best as possible, and I do not have the feeling of disrupting the work of our assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u106	All for a tweet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u107	The subject is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u108	Pursuant to Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, I call Article 1 of the bill, in the text which was originally referred to the House, since the committee has not adopted any text, and the amendment which relates to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u109	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u110	The purpose of this text is to rehabilitate the soldiers "stripped for example" during the First World War, whether they committed individual acts or participated in phenomena of collective disobedience such as in Artois in 1915 or in Verdun in 1916. These soldiers, the so-called mutineers, refused to serve as cannon flesh and showed their exasperation before offensives as arbitrary as they were murderous. Bringing them fully into our collective memory was a salutary step, but that is no longer enough. Beyond general, collective, civic and moral rehabilitation, it should be expressly stated that the nation restores them in their honour. This amendment is primarily editorial; It tends to clarify in the most absolute way the nature of the rehabilitation of the "shooted for example" of the Great War and to affirm the total legitimacy of the inscription of their first and last names on monuments to the dead.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u111	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud, rapporteur of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces, to give the Committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u112	Thank you for your amendment, which gives me the opportunity to explain to our House who were the "shooted for example" involved in the text. Often, because of historical confusion, the evocation of the "shooted for example" reminds the mutins of 1917 – that is not the case. Most of the "shooted for example" were in the first offensives, very deadly, in 1914 and 1915. These mutins were the victims of a denial of justice, as they were tried by military justice established by the political power; An exceptional court under a military code dating from the Second Empire, which did not provide for confrontation, left no room for adversarial action, which did not allow for appeal or the use of a professional lawyer to defend himself. The expeditious nature of this justice alone would justify their rehabilitation. By 1916, their contemporaries had grasped this evidence: by unanimous agreement of its members, our assembly, on the initiative of conservative and socialist deputies, voted for the end of this swift, exceptional justice and the restoration of a right of grace that President Poincaré used as soon as he could, so that by 1916, 95 per cent of those sentenced to death were pardoned. This trans-party fight continued after the war, thanks to veterans' associations and MPs. The latter passed a law in 1921 which authorized the Court of Cassation to review individual cases, and in 1932 another created the Special Court of Military Justice, composed of former combatants. At the time, it was considered that only those who had experienced the fire of the trenches could know what was happening and judge these men. Many were rehabilitated, but this was not possible for all the soldiers involved, as new evidence and evidence were needed, which in many cases was not possible. As early as 1925, a medical examiner demonstrated that it was not possible to determine whether or not an injury was the result of voluntary mutilation, which should have resulted in the rehabilitation of all convicted persons on this ground; But that was not the case. Many argue that rehabilitation should be done on a case-by-case basis, by examining the files individually. It must be noted that this is not possible. The work of historians has progressed well and we have a list of 639 names, from which all convicted persons for ordinary crimes or for espionage crimes have been excluded. Those who remained were all convicted of military crimes or offences. However, 20% of their files are missing and others are empty. The historians we interviewed explained that they wanted to be rehabilitated on a case-by-case basis, after an individual review of the files. One historian tried to do so and concluded that it was impossible, that collective rehabilitation was necessary, both legal, social and political. More than a hundred years later, it's time to close the memory wounds. Many associations, such as the National Federation of Free Thought, continue to lead this fight; families have written to us that it is necessary to act – families who have experienced reproach, who have been charged the price of bullets and poles that were used to shoot these soldiers. Today, France would grow by recognizing that it was a denial of justice; This would be the culmination of the process of memorial recognition initiated by Lionel Jospin in Craonne and continued by Nicolas Sarkozy. In line with our predecessors of 1916, 1921 and 1932, let us rehabilitate the "shooted for example" unanimously! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – MM. François-Michel Lambert and Julien Dive also applaud]] As far as the amendment is concerned, I have an opinion of wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u113	I call on Mr. Adrien Taquet, Secretary of State for Children and Families, to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u114	Your amendment, Madam Member, is aimed at making the history of the "shooted for example" of the Great War fully part of our national memory. Your objective is obviously legitimate and we share it. However, this amendment will not achieve it. First, the law does not restore the honor of men; Such a result is the result of a collective approach of history and memory, necessary to understand the history and stakes of the Great War. As the rapporteur has mentioned, this has already been done, particularly with the centenary memorial cycle; The understanding of this conflict, which is essential for the history of our country as well as for the history of the whole world, has progressed, and this must continue. The Ministry of Armed Forces has long been engaged in a process of historical transparency concerning the shootings. As part of the centenary of the Great War, he made all the 1009 files of all the shot – and not just those of the "shooted for example" – available to citizens on his Memoir des hommes website. In 2014, as part of his policy of history and transparency, which he fully assumed, the ministry had commissioned a report from a group of historians, under the authority of Professor Antoine Prost. The report first refers to the number of shootings for war, ordinary law and espionage offences; It refers to 640 shootings for military disobedience, which make up a group whose complexity and diversity should not be underestimated – although it is essential to underline the sometimes expeditious nature of the military justice of the time, which, however, has evolved throughout the conflict, as the historians have shown. The inscription on the memorial to the dead is only possible for soldiers who have obtained the mention "death for France", the award of which is regulated by the Code of Military Disability Pensions and War Victims and can only be issued individually, after examination of the file, by the National Office of Veterans and War Victims. For all these reasons, Madam Member, even if we share the spirit of this, our opinion on your amendment is unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u115	The text is discussed in accordance with the simplified examination procedure; I understand that you are interested in the subject, ladies and gentlemen, but I would ask you to be reasonable and not to engage in a lengthy debate. Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u116	[[Applause on a few benches of the FI group. – Mr. François-Michel Lambert also applauds]] I want to quickly expose my personal position, which is not that of my group. I shall vote in favour of the text, rapporteur. I represent the department of France that was the most destroyed during the First World War. From the Battle of Guise in 1914, to the counter-offensive of the Hindenburg Line in 1918, the Aisne suffered a great deal; Many of our compatriots were massacred there. This story is now part of our genes and is transmitted from grandparents to grandchildren; in all families, she continues to move us in our flesh. I will therefore unscrupulously support this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u117	Mr Alexis Corbière has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u118	I agree with that, insisting on one point for colleagues who are not familiar with the subject. It has long been considered, as my colleague Lachaud pointed out, that there were 740 "shoots for example". When we asked for their rehabilitation, like many associations, we were told that among them were people who had committed acts of common law, spies, traitors. The historical defence service of the Ministry of Armed Forces finally established, thanks in particular to Mr. Kader Arif when he was Secretary of State for Veterans, that there were 639 "shooted for example" who were neither traitors nor responsible for acts of common law. It's time to rehabilitate them. It also tells us that 20 to 25 per cent of the archives have disappeared. In any case, wanting to rehabilitate them on a case-by-case basis would mean never doing so. Only one possibility exists, given the elements provided by the historians of our armies – we have all the elements and the sorting has been done: collective rehabilitation, which is the only worthy attitude, more than a hundred years later, to signify the greatness of France, the Republic and our armies when they know how to recognize events that are not worthy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the SOC group]] It would also be an opportunity to relieve families who still ask for it, by allowing them to add the name of an alderman alongside those who fell for France on a monument to the dead. Colleagues, if we do not do so today, we will definitely close a historical page and never again this discussion will take place: 639 people who have died in the field of honour will disappear in oblivion, while they have given their blood for the homeland. Let's not forget them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u119	Mrs. Sophie Beaudouin-Hubiere has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u120	We have already had this exchange in committee, Mr rapporteur. You know, in this chamber of the verb, words have a meaning. The group La République en marche is very much in favour of collective memorial recognition. This was done, as you recalled, by Presidents of the Republic, by a Prime Minister, on the Men's Memory website and at the Army Museum. While it is indisputable that what was played – essentially in 1914 and 1915 – in courts martial was only a parody of justice, we also know that some of the shootings were multi-recidivists of desertion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u121	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u122	Can we accept, as the Prost report points out, that you have so often cited, that it is possible, through general rehabilitation, to declare an innocent mutineer and to consider that national defence was not an obligation for citizens? [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Finally, I repeat with force, while the legislator may sometimes pass memorial laws aimed at recognizing an injustice committed by the State or the Government at a given time, it is in no way up to him to substitute for historians by imposing a political reading grid and imprinted with modern ideas on events that took place, in this case, more than a hundred years ago. That is why the La République en marche group will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u123	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u124	Our group had tabled in 2016 a bill calling for the rehabilitation of the "shooted for example" that had been discussed in a parliamentary niche. In my personal capacity, I also introduced a similar bill in 2017. Everyone thought that all this would be forgotten once the anniversary or commemoration of the centennial had passed. No, because the rehabilitation of these 639 "shooted for example" is a matter of honour, revealing a real wound that we must wash. [[Applause on several benches of the GDR and FI groups]] Our assembly would be honored to go along the lines proposed to us by our colleagues in La France who were insoubted by voting favorably, by a large majority, for the rehabilitation of these 639 "shooted for example". I will conclude by having a thought for all my friends of the association "Les amis de Pierre Brizon", in the department of Allier, who have been working for years for these men to be rehabilitated. I hope it's done tonight.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u125	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u126	[[Applause on many benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is with great emotion that I take the floor tonight. You quote in your report, rapporteur, the shootings of Souain: Maupas, Lefoulon, Girard, Lechat. They were shot on 17 March 1915. I have the honour, the great pleasure, of being the descendant – the grandson – of a reserve officer, son of a teacher of the Republic, who defended them, in the glow of a candle, in a classroom. They were shot in the early morning. He, who was a practicing Catholic, through his testimony allowed their rehabilitation in 1934. I can assure you that in the 1920s there was a sacred union on all the benches of this Chamber of the one who believes in heaven, of the one who does not believe in it, of the right, of the left, of the conservatives as progressives, to rehabilitate not the memory of deserters, of people who have spied on or fled their responsibilities, but, in this case, of Théophile Maupas and of the three other corporals who were drawn by lot, executed – there is no other term – after implacable justice – the rigour of a military code that was already exceeded and which was subsequently modified. [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR, SOC, Agir ens, IUD-I, LT, FI and GDR groups, as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I didn't think I was so moved tonight, but this debate is reviving a lot of things. Probably one of the descendants of Maupas listens to us. We've known each other for years; He still has, with his body and heart, the pain of his grandmother, who is also a teacher at the Chefresne in the English Channel. She was ashamed, because her husband had been considered a deserter, a bad patriot: her name was not on the monument to the dead and her children were pariahs in the school yard. So a little coherence, perhaps unity, even though I understand that there may be a few small difficulties for some: that those few who have failed in front of France and the Republic do not conceal the honor of those who, yes, have died well for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u127	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u128	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u129	The Socialist and Related Group will of course vote in favour of this text. We recalled in the Defence Committee, these 639 "shooted for example" were young people, mostly between the ages of 18 and 20, who endured the cold, the mud, the horror and had to live a terrible and inhumane situation – Lionel Jospin had described it very well. [[Applause on the SOC benches. "Mr. André Chassaigne also applauds]] I am proud to be able to discuss this issue tonight. Our assembly would honour itself, more than a hundred years later, by adopting this text – but I understand that some will not vote for it – so that the names of these people, who have descendants, will appear on the pediment of our town halls and on the monuments to the dead, I was very moved by your intervention, dear colleague Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u130	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u131	The words of Philippe Gosselin and the other interventions reveal an extreme emotion. Not only was this conflict a butchery, as everyone knows, but it highlighted the differences in treatment, including in mobilization. It is not a question of offending our territory, but in the village of which I was mayor there are eighty-four names on the monument to the dead, for a population of 600 inhabitants at the time – up to the fathers of four children were mobilized. In our territory, as in other places, like the one mentioned by Philippe Gosselin, we have experienced situations of injustice linked to those called "the shot for example". An excellent documentary, from our home, evokes the true story of a young man who was shot – like many others – because, a victim of tinnitus and not speaking French, he did not understand the orders of the command. It is not in the name of a few that the National Assembly must dissipate itself from its moral and historical responsibility in the face of what can be seen – in a blatant way – as injustice, as summary executions that, today, like yesterday, during the 1914 war, are not justifiable. [[Applause on the benches of the LT, LR, FI and GDR groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The 1916 debates, which were the subject of a consensus between conservatives and socialists, bear witness to the extreme emotion of those days. Today, in the 21st century, in 2022, it is our moral duty, for all of us, to ignore a number of partisan choices to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u132	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u133	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 74 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 39 Against 26
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u134	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law to restore the rule of law by abrogation of the emergency regimes created during the health crisis (No 4744, 4864).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u135	Mrs Mathilde Panot, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u136	I hear hell is the rest, and Emmanuel Macron's is populated. The others, for the President of the Republic, were first of all the poor. For the penalty, he withdrew 5 euros of housing aid. They were then the unemployed – not the unemployed: no, the unemployed. He began with humiliating sobricets: "I cross the street and I [...] find you [a job]"; "People who are nothing"; "The best way to afford a suit is to work"; "we put a crazy money in the social minima". Then he put a curse on them. If they were unemployed, they would have to receive fewer allowances to stop being unemployed, a difficult task when there are more job seekers than jobs available. But his duty was fulfilled: he made their existence a hell. The environmental activists were the following: the president was offended by deigning to remove from the town halls his portrait struck by grace. Threatened in power by these others, between 16 and 25 years old and with coloured signs, he called for reinforcement of the CRS and gassed and battled the rabid militants. He did likewise with the yellow vests, to which he applied to the letter the rule "eye for eye, tooth for tooth". The yellow vests lost their eye, some of their teeth, and others, more original, their hand. Then Emmanuel Macron brought new arrivals into his hell: the unvaccinated. He made it clear in the newspapers that they needed to be "fucked" and declared their deprivation of citizenship. Until the day when Emmanuel Macron's hell ran out of space, since he had put all the people behind each other. For the President of the Republic does not know how to govern anything other than by designating enemies. Emmanuel Macron's main function is not to give the nation broad guidance, but rather the broad orientations as to who should be hated. But Emmanuel Macron can afford it, since we are under the Fifth Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u137	I'm looking forward to my life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u138	Since March 2020, he decides who comes out, comes in, goes where and when. For if the Fifth Republic gives him the power of a monarch, the exceptional regimes in which we bathe give him full powers. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Colleagues, here's the news: we're in a pandemic. This has not been happening since yesterday, but for the past two years, it seems that the Government is discovering it at every moment. So every day, he shakes his arms frantically, makes great gestures and trembles. First, Emmanuel Macron appears on television to make announcements; Gabriel Attal rushed to correct the announcements; Mr. Jean Castex does not even have time to wear his glasses which Mr. Véran yells at the national representation to examine the text as quickly as possible, at the risk of causing death; At the very end, Jean-Michel Blanquer wakes up at the last minute and remembers that he is Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports – and bis compared with every inflection of the contamination curve! Secretary of State, the shortest jokes are the best, and this comedy has lasted too long. For the past two years, you have shaken democracy, decisions are taken in secret at the Defence Council, you are stacking 12 texts that maintain or prolong an emergency regime that Parliament is required to examine and vote as it stands on the night it has become aware of. Twelve consecutive texts, none of which have ever been evaluated. When we emphasize the absurdity of certain health measures, you do not take care of them. Those who are vaccinated but positive at the covid will be able to go where they want, but not those who are not vaccinated but tested negative: it's no big deal. You should have a drink sitting, but not standing. Isn't that curious? No. Reimbursing tests at a time when contamination is skyrocketing, it's a little counterproductive – but not at all! [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Permanent denial, pride, and finally amateurism. In the last two years we have been living in a pandemic, nothing has ever been planned. So, in the fifth wave, the Minister of National Education comes out of his torpor and thinks of providing teachers with surgical masks, which will not be FFP2 and will only be distributed next week; in the fifth wave, hospitals still lack caregivers, caregivers still lack facilities; in the fifth wave, hospitals lack beds – logically, you removed 5700 in 2020 alone. It is all the more absurd that, in order to manage this crisis, you had looked at only two curves: the curve of contamination at the covid-19 and that of the saturation of hospitals. The curve of suicides that explodes among young people, the curve of operations deprogramming: these do not count. While waiting for them to cross, you could at least have invested in the public hospital so as to delay the moment when the hospitals will be on their knees. No, you say, it would be to welcome more sick people – you still had to invent it so absurd, but let's go. In this case, to lower the contamination curve, you could have put the package on the air purifiers wherever possible – but no, it would mean spending too much money. You didn't put the package on barrier gestures, or on masks or free tests, and I'm getting good and good ones: as you know, except for the rich, in Macronie, there's no magic money. Then it will be a vaccine for everyone – a vaccine that we don't blame for except not to prevent anyone from contaminating themselves. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] Basically, you think that it is possible to pursue an austere policy, even in times of pandemic. Public health costs too much, so it doesn't matter if it collapses. Since you are unable to preserve what makes us stand together, you place the responsibility for your failures on the citizens. To invest in our public services, you substitute the designation of non-vaccinated with the popular vindiction. As always, you are unable to get people to consent to your unjust policy otherwise than by coercion. Who are we talking about first, Secretary of State? According to one study, 40 per cent of them live in medical deserts or are far from the health care system. The President of the Republic is careful not to mention the inequalities in health that dislocate our country. At random, take a look at vaccination rates in Paris and Seine-Saint-Denis. In other words, they are poor people whose access to care is hampered by their social condition – the same people who most often suffer from co-morbidities, the same people who are most often exposed to serious forms. These people are the first victims of not being vaccinated, but rather of going to them, you stigmatize them. The others are not vaccinated by choice, either. Do you think your methods will convince them more? [[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] It doesn't matter, for Emmanuel Macron, hell is the others. To be heard, the Defender of Rights who evokes the public freedoms threatened by the health and vaccination pass would be an anarchist activist. The National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms – CNIL – which repeatedly asks for an assessment of the health measures implemented by the Government: the rights of the human rights defender. The World Health Organization – just that – that calls for convincing rather than forcing: experts who do not live in our world, probably. Two years. Coronavirus crisis is not a parenthesis that we will emerge from overnight, as long as you do not treat root causes. This means in practice that emergency regimes will no longer have anything exceptional as we enter the pandemic era. That is why we need to break with those regimes that are accustomed to a disfigured world order, in which democracy is flouted and the decision is only one. Because what we are experiencing, colleagues, could prefigure the social upheavals that we will experience in extreme climatic events. Perhaps one day, then, part of the population will have to be confined because of a storm or a risk of flooding. Perhaps one day others will no longer be able to access running water, as is currently the case – I repeat – in Guadeloupe, Martinique or Mayotte. What will you do? Will you point out those who built their house too close to the coastlines or those families who have used too much running water to your liking? Colleagues, we are at this moment of civilization when we must rule by mutual aid. This means investing massively in our public services, which are all that remains to those who have nothing. This means now demanding the lifting of patents on vaccines. It is well known that we will not end the virus alone. Ensuring universal access to the vaccine is in the general human interest. This means restoring human rights wherever they are violated. In Guadeloupe, you did not even deign to distribute bottles of water to the population that lacked it by triggering the ORSEC plan – organization of the civil safety response – drinking water.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u139	Shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u140	[[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This means putting an end to this madness, which is to let companies get rich on the back of the world's misfortune at $1,000 per second for Pfizer, Moderna and BioNTech. This means dealing with the causes of pandemics, by leading the ecological and solidarity bifurcation that we absolutely need. Finally, it means putting you out of order because, colleagues, hell, it would be five more years of Emmanuel Macron.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u141	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u142	One can only be a little surprised by the fact that this bill has been kept on the agenda of the niche of the group of La France unsuspecting, whereas in a few days, I hope, I believe, Parliament will finally adopt the bill that strengthens the tools for managing the health crisis and amends the code of public health.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u143	It depends on tweets!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u144	Indeed, the bill simply provides for the removal of all the legislative work carried out for almost two years now, at this very moment, a few minutes ago and in a few minutes again, in order to define with precision and demand the powers granted to the Government to respond to the health crisis. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the La France Group, the rapporteur, should Parliament adopt your bill, all the barrier measures would fall, whether it is the obligation to wear the mask and to make available hydro-alcoholic gel, the rules of arrival in the national territory and in the overseas territories, whether you are quoting it or the health pass. However, they have made it possible to reconcile control of the epidemic with the maintenance of many activities. [[Rites and exclamations on FI banks]] [[Protests on the benches of the FI group]] In the middle of the fifth wave, overnight, the virus would therefore be free, thanks to your text, to circulate at a fulgurant speed, amplified by the increased contagiosity of the delta and omicron variants. It is therefore not by hundreds of thousands, but probably by millions, that we will count the number of new daily cases. I let you imagine – I hear your quolibets – the health catastrophe that would result for our country, the consequences for our hospital system,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u145	Tell us about the facts!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u146	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u147	Excuse us, Mr. President, but he makes us laugh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u148	...and the number of deaths we would have to record daily in the absence of any braking measures. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You will not be surprised that our sense of responsibility and the continuous mobilization of the Government to protect the health of the French leads us, without any hesitation, to oppose this text completely and firmly and to allow the Law Commission and its commissioners to resume consideration of the bill aimed at strengthening the protection measures of our fellow citizens that were under discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u149	Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that the last sitting of the day shall end at midnight, I shall adjourn the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1123.u150	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Review, in further reading, of the bill strengthening the tools for managing the health crisis and amending the public health code. The meeting is adjourned.
