ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u1	I declare the 16th Parliament of the National Assembly open.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u2	Under Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the six youngest Members present are called upon to serve as secretaries until the election of the Bureau. They're Messrs. Tematai Le Gayic, Louis Boyard, Pierrick Berteloot, Bryan Masson, Damien Maudet and Charles Rodwell. The Assembly's age bureau is thus constituted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u3	Pursuant to Article L.O. 179 of the Electoral Code, I have received from the Minister of the Interior the list of elected deputies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u4	Decrees on the composition of the Government were published in the Official Gazette on 21 May and 26 June 2022. I recall that members of the Government cannot take part in the elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u5	Mr Minister responsible for relations with Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is with emotion and solemnity that I express myself today, having the venerable privilege of being the dean of our Assembly. [[Applause]] Without delay, I extend to each and every one of you, elected from metropolis, elected overseas and representatives of the French of the world, my sincere congratulations on his election or re-election. At these times, I have a very special thought for those who preceded me in this priceless honour of opening the first sitting of a legislature, especially for the venerable parliamentarian, Edward Frédéric-Dupont, and for the great Frenchman Marcel Dassault. Allow me to greet his great-grandson, our colleague Victor Habert-Dassault, who has been re-elected to the seat of the late Olivier Dassault. Many of us feel this emotion in this Chamber where we are accompanied by their overwhelming presence by all the glorious figures in the history of France who preceded us under this dome of light. This place that still resonates with all the great debates that have marked our democratic life is a place of history, but also, perhaps, for the millions of French people who expect a lot of us, a place of hope. In this sacred place of the representation of the French people, of the expression of the national will, seeing you gathered side by side, in alphabetical order, beyond all our differences, is a symbol of French unity. [[Applause]] This symbol touches the child of a France that I am, torn from his native land and damaged on the coast of Provence by the winds of history in 1962. I left there a part of my France and a lot of friends. I am a man who has seen his soul forever bruised... Forgive my emotion, I think of my friends I left there. I am a man who has seen his soul forever bruised by the feeling of abandonment and periods of tearing. Like all of us, I have no doubt, I know how much this requirement of French unity is necessary, especially in the complex times that we are going through. I wish, ladies and gentlemen, that it will enlighten our debates and inspire our decisions. At the decision of the people, a deeply renewed assembly was established. Everyone can only welcome the fact that the wisdom of the electoral corps has been able to compensate for the brutality of a method of voting that has sometimes caused some French people to feel bitter about not being represented. Even minority currents are always useful for the richness of a democratic debate or for the emergence of new topics in the public debate. But we must not forget that, by choosing abstention, many compatriots are certainly still calling for a reflection on political representativeness and social democracy. The political configuration of this assembly makes us live a situation almost unprecedented in the history of the Fifth Republic, with a national representation called to take a more central place. Without ignoring the expression of our own convictions or the legitimate passions that drive each and every one of us, this House is a place where the debate must be held; and without losing sight of the meaning of the mandate entrusted to us by our voters, it will be up to us to find ways and means to work collectively for the good of the country and for the benefit of the French, especially the most modest and vulnerable of them. Allow me, at the threshold of this legislature, to express the hope that this particular political situation will develop listening, respect and dialogue, rather than invective, sterile confrontation and anathema; that it helps to reconcile the French with politics and with politics; to enable everyone to rediscover on this occasion the usefulness of political debate and decision-making for the improvement of the daily life of all. [[Applause]] I wish us bold and fruitful legislators; to each of you, I wish the best in the fulfilment of his exalting mission and I wish our country great success. Long live the Republic! Long live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u6	The next item is the election, in accordance with Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure, of the President of the National Assembly. This election shall be held by secret ballot in the rostrum. I have received the nominations of Ms Nathalie Bassire, Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet, Mr Sébastien Chenu, Ms Annie Genevard and Ms Fatiha Keloua Hachi. I would like to inform you that handwritten bulletins are valid, but that printed bulletins are at your disposal. These bulletins, placed in envelopes, will be placed in the ballot box under the control of the age secretaries. The ballot will be taken away by four incumbent deputy returning officers and two alternate deputy returning officers, whose names I shall draw by lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u7	The incumbent deputy returning officers are: Ms. Sarah Tanzilli, Ms. Liliana Tanguy, Mr. Paul Vannier, Mr. Jean-François Rousset. Mr. Nicolas Thierry, Ms. Véronique Riotton are appointed alternate deputy deputy deputy deputy returning officers. I will draw lots for the letter by which the roll call will begin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u8	The spell refers to the letter E. To facilitate the orderly conduct of the ballot, please wait for your name to be called up to the rostrum. I open the ballot, which is announced in the National Assembly. The vote will be closed at 16:15. First of all, I invite the age secretaries to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u9	I now invite the bailiffs to begin the roll call.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u10	No one's asking to vote anymore? ... The vote is closed. I invite our colleagues who were appointed deputy returning officers at the beginning of the meeting to go to the fifth bureau to proceed with the recount. The result of the ballot will be proclaimed at seven o'clock.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u11	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u12	The meeting was resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of the election of the President of the National Assembly. Number of voters: 562 White or invalid bulletins: 9 Suffrages expressed: 553 Absolute majority: 277 Have obtained: Ms. Nathalie Bassire: 18 votes; Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet: 238 votes; Mr. Sébastien Chenu: 90 votes; Ms. Annie Genevard: 61 votes; Ms. Fatiha Keloua Hachi: 146 votes. Since no candidate obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, a second ballot should be held. [[Ms. Nathalie Bassire, Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet, Ms. Annie Genevard and Ms. Fatiha Keloua Hachi maintain their application. – Mr Sébastien Chenu withdraws his]] I now turn to the candidates to ask them if they are maintaining their candidacy. We will therefore proceed to the second ballot for the election of the President of the National Assembly. Candidates for the second round are Nathalie Bassire, Yaël Braun-Pivet, Annie Genevard and Fatiha Keloua Hachi. [[Murmurs on various benches]] I would remind you that an absolute majority of the votes cast is still required. As in the first round, the roll call will begin with the letter E. It is too late to change the letter, it has already been drawn by lot. I open the ballot, which is announced in the National Assembly. The vote will be closed at 18:15. I invite the bailiffs to begin the roll call.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u13	No one's asking to vote anymore? ... The vote is closed. I invite our colleagues who were appointed deputy returning officers at the beginning of the meeting to go to the fifth bureau to proceed with the recount. The result of the second round of balloting will be proclaimed at 18:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u14	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u15	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the result of the second round of the election of the President of the National Assembly. Number of voters: 474 White or invalid newsletters: 12 Suffrages expressed: 462 Absolute majority: 232 Have obtained: Ms. Nathalie Bassire: 16 votes [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Minister Delegate to the Prime Minister, responsible for relations with Parliament and democratic life, rise and applaud at length]] Ms Yaël Braun-Pivet: 242 votes Ms Annie Genevard: 60 votes [[Applause]] [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of Parliament and the Minister Delegate to the Prime Minister, responsible for relations with Parliament and democratic life, rise and applaud at length]] Mrs. Fatiha Keloua Hachi: 144 votes Ms. Yaël Braun-Pivet obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast, I declare her President of the National Assembly and invite her to take a seat in the presidential chair.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, no one has entered this Chamber without emotion, without feeling the history of which these walls are imprinted, the history of the Republic, which has been forged in this place to no other like. [[Applause]] Strong voices resonate in these spans. These are the voices of those to whom we must live in a free country, who had the ambition, once, to deliver to the world a message of which you are today the guarantors: "Men are born and remain free and equal in rights. » By taking me to your presidency, you are giving this message new strength. I would therefore like to thank all of you, elected by direct universal suffrage, who are making this strong and more necessary gesture than ever before, no doubt, as much as the time we are living in is full of uncertainty and questioning. [[Applause]] Let me begin by thinking about the other candidates in this position. In particular, I greet Annie Genevard, who was an excellent vice-president of the National Assembly during the last legislature. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I also want to pay tribute to all those who preceded me to this chair. I obviously have a special thought for Richard Ferrand – dear Richard. By his height and rigor, he was able to embody a demanding National Assembly with herself and respect for our fellow citizens. I am also thinking of Jean-Louis Debré speaking from the outset of twenty years ago of the person of General de Gaulle, who represented both for him and his family. I also think, closer to us, of Claude Bartolone, seized by the emotion when he evoked the other side of the Mediterranean Sea and the smell of orange trees. [[Smile]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is a long and sinuous journey towards equality between men and women! I would like to read you a few lines published on 12 April 1849 in the columns of the daily The People: "A very serious fact on which we cannot remain silent has happened at a recent banquet. A woman has seriously applied to the National Assembly. This woman's name was Jeanne Deroin; She was a journalist, was 44 years old and, under the weight of mockery, had finally had to withdraw her candidacy, thus renouncing her ambition, yet so legitimate. It took almost a century for thirty-three women to enter this Chamber for the first time on 21 October 1945; 20 more years for women to chair committees; twenty more years for them to be given a place at the questure; almost as long before the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women was established. This path was drawn by remarkable personalities. They are the honour of France and it is very unfair that I cannot quote them all here. I still want to talk to you about Catherine Tasca, who was in 1997, well before me, the first woman to preside over the Law Commission. This Yvelin president defended above all the draft constitutional law on equality between women and men. I am also thinking of our dear Marielle de Sarnez, the great figure of the House, who has disappeared too soon, leaving us all in disarray. Finally, how can we not mention Simone Veil, to whom the gates of the Pantheon have opened and to whom we owe so much? On November 26, 1974, then minister, she came – I quote – "in front of this assembly almost exclusively composed of men," to put an end to "a situation of disorder and injustice," and allowed the right to abortion to be included in the law. [[Applause]] The brutal decision made last Friday by the Supreme Court of the United States of America, which shocked us so much, calls us to vigilance. Nothing is ever acquired. History is made of great progress, but it is still threatened to be written backwards. This right has been won, it is inalienable. My conviction as a woman, given the circumstances, is that we must collectively ensure that it remains so forever. We are born "free and equal in rights", but there are other equally necessary promises that were also proclaimed in 1789. Whatever our birth, we must be able to grow in freedom, equality and fraternity. In our lifetime, social distinctions can only be based on common utility. Without these promises, my life would not have been the life that it was, because my family owes everything to the Republic. [[Applause]] My family are my paternal grandparents. He Polish, she German, they fled Nazism in the dark years and took refuge in Nancy where they met. My grandfather, at the Liberation, received the medal of the Resistance. As such, he became French and with him my grandmother and my father. It was their greatest honor. To their children and grandchildren, of whom I am, they transmitted their visceral love of France, the country that had welcomed them, protected them, and for which they had fought. [[Applause]] My family is also my mother, a child of DDASS, who taught me that you should never follow the path others have set for you. [[Applause]] My story is that of a young girl who was the first of her own to pursue higher education; who became a lawyer, the label of his grandfather's tailor sewn in the lining of his black dress, was able to take his destiny in hand. Because that is what our Republic allows each of its children – because that is what our Republic owes to each of its children. I give you these confidences because they are all messages for a country that doubts. These messages, we find them in the preamble of 1946, in which the rights proclaimed in 1789 were reaffirmed the day after the victory of the free peoples against barbarism. "Every man persecuted for his work in favour of freedom has the right to asylum in the territories of the Republic. [...] The nation shall provide the individual and the family with the conditions necessary for their development. [It] guarantees equal access for children and adults to education, vocational training and culture. » This resonates even more strongly in a world in conflict, in a country where the social elevator sometimes struggles to rise. [[Applause]] The child, the family: allow me, at this point in my speech, to thank and greet my husband and my five children, who are there – I see my daughter crying. They're wearing me; their support and joy of living are my strength. Without them, without each of my loved ones, I wouldn't be me, and I wouldn't be here. [[Applause]] Of course, I am aware that I am taking up this function at a particular moment in our political life. The configuration of our assembly is unprecedented. The French urge us to work together, to debate rather than fight. They chose us, they elected us. Whatever our differences, we share a responsibility: to respond to the hope that this assembly, which has the face of France, has given rise to in our fellow citizens. The hope of seeing us emerge from barren quarrels, which we have too often been accused of, to advance together in the service of France and the French. Our assembly, I believe, must be a chance for our country. It will be, I have no doubt, if we choose the path of dialogue. I'll be the exacting guarantor. This dialogue will be the foundation on which we can build consensus, compromises. This path is possible. The law commissioners can testify to this, we have already borrowed it: transpartial work, exchange, collegiality have been our trademark. This vision, I do not make it mine out of necessity, but out of conviction; I have developed it in my Advocacy for a strengthened Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, I was talking to you earlier about dialogue between us. This dialogue, our institution will also have to have it with the French; It's obvious. Doing politics means loving people, seeking to be useful to them and transforming their lives. Our assembly will have to get out of its walls and meet all our fellow citizens throughout the country. I am thinking in particular of the overseas territories, which I deeply love. Every year, the Chair of the Law Commission that I was visited one of them; Every year, the Speaker of the National Assembly I am will continue to do so. [[Applause]] The overseas countries and territories are also present in the 1946 preamble: "France forms a Union based on equality [...]. My commitment to them will never weaken because, let's say, with them, thanks to their history, their diversity, their distance as well, our country more embodies its dream of universality. In this House, today, let us open a new chapter together. You can count on me. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] Time is running out, he's forcing us. For all the French, wherever they are, wherever they come from, whatever their expectations and needs, let us act to make more beautiful the immense good we have in common: the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-06-28-O1169.u18	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Appointment, possibly by vote, of the six Vice-Presidents, the three Quaestors and the twelve Secretaries; Installation of the office. The meeting is adjourned.
