ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u1	The next item is the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u2	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor to raise her question, No. 1678, concerning access to a medical doctor in the medical deserts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u3	I would like to question you, Mr Secretary of State for Children and Families, on the subject of medical desertification, which I know well, since my department has the sad privilege of being in the ninety-seventh place of the departments, with regard to the number of doctors. The demands of the inhabitants of my constituency are numerous, especially in its most rural fringe. One point in particular comes up regularly: that of the care path. Since the 2005 reform, the attending physician has played a decisive role, since it is almost essential to access most specialists. On the other hand, only the consulting of the attending physician can obtain a reimbursement of the health insurance up to 70% of the basic rate. While this device has certain advantages, it nevertheless has particularly perverse effects, especially when living in a medical desert. Indeed, the difficulty for the inhabitants of this territory to find local general practitioners, which is similar to a real journey of the combatant, is added a financial penalty, since the health insurance pays them only 30% of the basic rate because they do not have the possibility to have a treating doctor, i.e. an extra cost of 10 euros per consultation. It is therefore the double penalty for them: to the rarity of the medical supply is added an additional cost often unbearable for the most modest families, of which it is known that purchasing power remains the absolute priority. This mechanism is therefore profoundly unfair for the 5 to 9 million French people concerned. We know that the workforce will continue to decline until 2026. Health insurance has put in place a mechanism to avoid these situations, by allowing the persons concerned to turn to the Territorial Coordinated Organisations (OCTs) to be identified and to have easier access to a care offer, while benefiting from a normal reimbursement. But this system has its limits: it is still little known and there are still too few CTOs: around 30 throughout the national territory according to the health insurance website. The answer is therefore not appropriate. Mr Secretary of State, can you give us an update on your thoughts on this issue? Could we not consider in a transitional way the removal in the medical deserts of the treating physician's system so that families are no longer penalized financially?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u4	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u5	Established in 2004, the purpose of applying an increased rate of participation of the insured person in the event of consultation with a doctor outside the care path is to encourage insured persons to enrol in a medical follow-up coordinated by their attending physician. The 2016 medical convention strengthened the valorisation of the function of treating physician in view of its key role in the long-term follow-up of patients, coordination and synthesis in order to avoid the use of unnecessary hospitalizations and facilitate the return to home of patients leaving hospital. However, as you point out, medical demography leads to complex situations, with the insured sometimes having no choice but to consult outside the care path, especially in rural areas. Many cases of derogation from this rate increase are therefore foreseen: medical emergency, geographical distance from his place of residence, long-term condition (LDD), patient followed by a specialist in the context of a chronic disease or unavailability of the attending physician. Today, only 9% of insured persons over 16 years of age have not declared a attending physician. In the event of unsuccessful research, insured persons may seek the assistance of the mediator of their affiliation fund to help them find a treating doctor. Meanwhile, their care is reimbursed at the usual rate. Guaranteeing the possibility for every Frenchman to have a treating doctor is, as you know, an important objective of the My Health 2022 plan. Furthermore, the President of the Republic wanted to mobilize the territorial health professional communities (CPTS) on this priority mission – I do not know whether in your territory the CPTS are active and yield results. As you know, these organisations allow the various health actors to organize and coordinate themselves to take care of the population of their territory. Finally, the objective of deploying 4000 medical assistants to free up medical time and thus facilitate access to a medical practitioner is expected to be achieved by the year 2022, in particular through the introduction of financial assistance through health insurance to facilitate their recruitment. That is, Madam Commissioner, all the mechanisms that we are implementing to ensure that all our citizens, wherever they are in the country, are provided with the care they need.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u6	Mrs Patricia Lemoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u7	Thank you, Secretary of State. I know that the Government is making every effort to correct the shooting, but for the time being the difficulties remain in those territories, which are really short of doctors. However, I want to remain confident about the elements you have just brought us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u8	I call Mr Eric Coquerel to speak on his question No 1683 on access to public services in the Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u9	For my last oral question from the legislature, I too wanted to come back to health issues, particularly in Seine-Saint-Denis, where the executive claims to have committed itself to the stronger state plan in Seine-Saint-Denis. For me, a strong republican state, it is a state that ensures respect for the principles of the Republic and the equality of all. This is far from the case in the 93 for public services, particularly hospitals and public health. Currently, in Seine-Saint-Denis, between 20% and 25% of beds are closed due to lack of staff. Hospitals at the CHU – a university hospital – have lost about 100 beds in 20 years, while the population of Seine-Saint-Denis is increasing and the covid-19 has caused a record 182% overmortality in 2020, despite a young population. Do I have to remind you, Mr. Secretary of State, that this department is the only department that has seen the pediatric service of a hospital, the Delafontaine Hospital, transformed into a palliative care service for the elderly during the covid -19, which is also overflowing all year round? Should I remind you that the CHU has also lost a pediatric surgery service, a nephrology service and an ORL service, and that it still has no urology service, nor neurosurgery nor interventional cardiology? How can we pretend to act for the Seine-Saint-Denis without giving its inhabitants the means to treat their kidneys, to operate their children or to be saved from a heart attack? How can we claim to act for the Seine-Saint-Denis by continuing to push its desperate inhabitants into the arms of private clinics instead of providing the public hospital with the necessary resources? How can we pretend to act for the Seine-Saint-Denis without tackling the problem of medical desert in the field of city medicine and specialists? How can you claim to act for the Seine-Saint-Denis, while the Grand Paris-Nord hospital in Saint-Ouen whose creation you plan may not have maternity, while the two hospitals it will replace each have one and the Minister of Solidarity and Health denies the hundreds of bed closures that this merger will cause on the pretext that a hospital hotel will be created? As if unsafe accommodation at the hotel could replace hospital places! It is time to stop this big failed project, to renovate Bichat and Beaujon, to provide the CHU with additional resources and to put the public health package for the inhabitants, patients and caregivers of Seine-Saint-Denis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u10	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u11	For many years, the Member of Parliament, the département of Seine-Saint-Denis has been facing significant delays in access to care: under-equipped and old-fashioned public hospitals, social and territorial inequalities, especially during the crisis of the covid -19, low medical density. This situation calls for increased mobilization of the State. This is what we did with the Stronger State Plan in Seine-Saint-Denis. In the case of the public hospital, significant funds have been made available for its renovation in the framework of the Ségur de la santé. Three of the four projects of the AP-HP – Public Assistance-Hospitals of Paris – accompanied by the Ségur de la santé are located in Seine-Saint-Denis. The project of the hospital-university campus Grand Paris-Nord in Saint-Ouen, which we have already had the opportunity to talk about in this Chamber, will bring the hospital closer to the users and adapt the offer to the demographic growth of the territory, which is important. His capacity has been increased by 90 beds to draw the consequences of the health crisis and I confirm that he will understand a maternity. The creation of the new Jean-Verdier Hospital in Bondy, which will become a community university site, will strengthen the provision of care by focusing on the unbundling between the city and the hospital. Added to this is the creation of a mother-child centre at the Avicenne Hospital in Bobigny, whose work will begin in January 2023. In addition, the renovations of emergencies in all public hospitals in the department are ongoing. Some are being completed, such as in Montreuil or Aulnay-sous-Bois. We also support the reconstruction of Le Raincy-Montfertil Hospital. Finally, we are deploying new heavy equipment, whether it is MRI, scanners or medical imaging. These are just a few of the many projects illustrating the necessary investment of the State and public authorities in favour of this department and its inhabitants.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u12	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u13	As far as the Grand Paris-Nord hospital project is concerned, pretending that it will bring patients closer to the hospital seems to me to be overly optimistic. It would be better not to close two hospitals and open a third one, of which we do not dispute the usefulness, but of a smaller size and certainly a little further north of the Seine-Saint-Denis. In general, we ask you to declare an immediate moratorium on all bed closures, while the projects you are talking about unfortunately provide for such closures. More broadly, there is a need to recruit large numbers of doctors, nurses, caregivers and administrative staff who are missing almost everywhere. We need recruitment into public EHPADs: AESH – accompanying students with disabilities –, a body of government doctors that we are defending in order to deal with medical deserts, all things that, for the moment, are not on the government's agenda and that we will implement under the presidency of Jean-Luc Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u14	The floor is open to Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq to put his question, No. 1685, concerning the forgotten of the Ségur de la santé.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u15	As you know, Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families, the midwifery profession is facing an unprecedented crisis, including recruitment difficulties in the public and liberal sectors. The cause is a devalorisation of this profession, which requires a five-year course of study, including a first year of medicine, due to conditions of exercise and remuneration that are no longer sufficiently attractive in terms of the professional commitment and usefulness of midwives in our country. The announcements made last week for the "forgotten of Segur" following their numerous mobilizations have forgotten the status of midwives. If the so-called negotiations of the Ségur de la Santé had given rise to the hope of a re-evaluation of this profession, it was obviously disappointed as mobilizations and awareness-raising actions have since followed, in various forms, to obtain the right satisfaction of their demands. I was recently participating in a public debate organized in the Havre agglomeration with Chantal Birman on the occasion of the screening of the film A la vie d'Aude Pépin, which you may have seen, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u16	Yeah, I saw him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u17	Although the Public Health Code indicates that the midwifery profession is a medical profession, it is treated as a paramedical profession and paid on an index scale far lower than that in force for the medical professions, including a salary of 1,800 euros net per month at the beginning of a career. The systematic application, and not just the current practice, of the status of hospital practitioner would be such as to correct this injustice and to recognize this profession at the level it deserves, since the skills of midwives are not confined to preparation for birth and childbirth. Would the Government finally be willing to offer them that just recognition? You have taken time to remember the forgotten Segur, but it is not too late to remedy the persistent oblivion of status. Finally, in view of the numerous testimonies gathered, I believe that it is necessary to revise the 1998 perinatal decrees to ensure that staff are adapted to the needs of hospitals. Clearly, your department advocates minimum staffing thresholds for maternity wards, without taking into account problems as undeniable as institutional mergers or changes in obstetrics. The result for patients and their children is a deterioration in the conditions of care and safety. Midwives, supported as they should by the vast majority of our fellow citizens, are waiting for your government to finally move the lines and for their fine profession to be recognized at its fair value: do not disappoint them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u18	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u19	I had the chance to attend a screening of the sublime documentary "A la vie d'Aude Pépin", with Chantal Birman, followed by a very interesting discussion with broken sticks, which lasted two hours, about this magnificent profession and its evolution – because it evolves: many midwives leave public institutions to settle on their own. You also know that it is very disparate: it can be practiced in a liberal capacity, in the hospital, in a maternity, in the context of maternal and child protection (PMI). In all cases, the Government has worked to improve the working conditions of midwives, their status and their remuneration. Olivier Véran and I have thus increased by 500 euros per month those who work in the hospital,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u20	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u21	... introduced the sixth year of training required by the profession. The Social Security Financing Act has dedicated and extended the homes of birth, which until now have been a part of experimentation, and where midwives play a central role – in fact, they are often at the head of these structures. In addition, as part of the policy that we developed around the first 1000 days of the child, you have adopted the provisions providing, for the first time in our country, for a post-partum consultation during the fifth week following the birth or even the twelfth week if necessary. Of course, midwives will occupy an important place within this system, since they are, if I may say so, naturally appropriate for conducting these interviews. Indeed, the whole issue is to avoid ruptures within the accompaniment before, during, after delivery – women often pointing out that they did not deal with the same people before and after. The Government had therefore shown its commitment to midwives. In the short time I have left, you will allow me to return to the conference of the trades of social and medico-social accompaniment held on Friday under the presidency of the Prime Minister: the Government, together with the Assembly of the Departments of France (ADF), which was an integral part of it, has reached an agreement with regard to sharing the stakes, drawing up perspectives for the professionals, to bring gratification and recognition to a few forgotten of the Ségur de la santé – far beyond the medical professions, since the workers of the medico-social and social field are also concerned, whether it concerns dependence, disability or the protection of children, to which I am particularly attached. PMI professionals, in particular, are included in the measures we have announced...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u22	Thank you, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u23	... Friday morning and which, I recall, represent 1.3 billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u24	The floor is open to Mr Pierre Dharréville, to put forward his question, No. 1686, concerning public institutions for the reception of persons who have lost their autonomy in the Bouches-du-Rhône.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u25	My question is to the Minister for Solidarity and Health, to whom I would like to express my deep concern. In the West Pond sector of Berre, where the ageing of the population will accelerate in the coming years, we are already lacking solutions, including accommodation for people who are losing their autonomy. For example, between 2007 and 2017, the age group aged 65 and over increased by 28.5% in the country of Martigues. For about 3,800 people over the age of 80, only 150 places are registered with social assistance. This deficit is higher than the average alarm, especially since the number of city doctors has fallen dramatically and the area, to my knowledge, has only four geriatricians. Nevertheless, it is above all the lack of public institutions that is striking. The hospital, which is preparing a renovation project, can certainly play a role, but not without means. There would be a lot to say – but this is not the subject of my question – about missed or delayed opportunities and breaches of private interests without them really meeting the needs. Our territory requires coordinated public action; I didn't disapprove of the department's responsibilities, but the state must be at the rendezvous of its own. The Regional Health Agency (ARS) has launched a call for projects for the restructuring of geriatrics: it plays a role not only in the area of operating authorisations, but also in the development of the additional training we need. We need protiform responses, combining home accompaniment, EHPAD of a new type, without neglecting accommodation. While focusing on older people, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that our sector also lacks medico-educational institutes (EMI) and other institutions dedicated to disabled people: here too, we need appropriate structures to accompany everyone with dignity. Given these shortcomings, Mr. Secretary of State, my constituency needs strong commitments from the state to develop and diversify structures for people who are losing their autonomy. In the face of this situation, what concrete means do you intend to deploy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u26	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u27	In the Bouches-du-Rhône, the rate of equipment in EHPAD – 85 - is lower than the average – 104.1 - and the western part of the department is indeed one of the least equipped areas in the region. However, several public EHPAD projects are under preparation or implementation. The one in Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône, whose management is common with the hospital center of Martigues, will soon undergo a large relocation operation: it will be rebuilt and its capacity increased by thirty-four places. The future establishment will thus have eighty accommodation places, with a centre of activities and care adapted to 14 places. In 2018, under the Investment Assistance Plan, this project benefited from an agreement to accompany the SRA, with a grant of 1.9 million. The hospital of Martigues is working in parallel with a large investment project, which is part of a partnership and territorial approach, with the public EHPADs of the sector – Port-Saint-Louis-du-Rhône, Marignane and Istres – in order to transform the offer and open these establishments on the accompaniment of home maintenance. For its part, the Arles Hospital is developing a major project to transform its two EHPADs into a single facility adapted to the needs of residents, offering a better quality of life at work for professionals, and which would become the EHPAD Resource Centre of the country of Arles, while developing new offers, notably thanks to the concept of "EHPAD off the walls". I also know that Brigitte Bourguignon and the teams of the ARS remain attentive to other perspectives for this territory, which they will have to detail in due course. I agree with you, Mr. Dharréville: even if the skills are shared, it is up to everyone to be at the rendezvous of his own. This is the case in your electoral district.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u28	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u29	Thank you, Secretary of State, for this clarification: this is a good start, even if, in order to deal with the issues, we will have to go much further. I would like to thank the hospital staff, who are mobilizing to meet the needs, but the number of places will probably remain insufficient. A public investment is necessary, as well as a stronger impetus from the state, without, once again, wanting to exempt the department from its responsibilities: you are absolutely right on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u30	Mr Christophe Di Pompeo has the floor to put his question, No. 1690, on medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u31	My question is for the Minister of Solidarity and Health, with whom I wanted to discuss the problems of access to care, particularly in the country of Sambre-Avesnois, where the situation is difficult. Nearly 7.5 million of our fellow citizens live in the country's many medical deserts. In Sambre-Avesnois, the Order of Physicians counted in January 2020 eleven fewer doctors than in January 2017; In the district of Avesnes-sur-Helpe, there are an average of 62 generalists per 100,000 inhabitants. The figures speak for themselves and, behind these figures, there is a reality: that of a population that does not care for itself, especially when it does not have much resources. The consequences are obvious: the Arrondissement d'Avesnes records an annual overmortality of 3000 people – as many dead as in a year on French roads. It's huge! It is unacceptable for 46% of cancers to be diagnosed at stage 3 or 4, compared to 16% nationally. We urgently need to address this structural problem, especially since it is not dated from yesterday. The financial incentives for installation are not enough to close the gaps; the end of the numerus clausus will not produce any significant effects for several years, and there is no guarantee that more doctors will distribute themselves more equitably. Ideally, their installation should be dependent on the needs of the territories, as is the case for pharmacists: this assembly has always refused to do. However, we must act to compensate for this shortage of doctors, and I know that the minister is acting. Although it calls for a complex response, the statement of my question is simple: by what means does the Government fight against medical desertification?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u32	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u33	This is a vast, complex issue that the Government has been trying to address since the beginning of the quinquennium, as this long-standing and deep-rooted crisis has many origins. It is a priority issue that these demographic tensions in some territories. Of course, the removal of the numerus clausus will allow an increase in the number of students to be expected in the coming years, even if it will take some time mechanically; Above all, we have always opted for solutions that are adaptable to the local context, because the answer to this question is not unique, since not all territories face the same difficulties. All levers should be used to provide access to care in areas of tension. In the country of Sambre-Avesnois, the regional health project identified priorities. Since 2019, with the advent of the new conventional zoning and the creation of regional areas by hand of the ARS, more than 750000 euros have been paid in order to accompany the installation of forty-one liberal doctors. All the municipalities in your constituency, Mr. MP, can obtain the three support provided for this purpose: 50000 euros from the time of installation of the professional, for his start-up costs; a remuneration of EUR 6900 gross per month for two years for primary facilities, with an insurable guarantee in the event of maternity leave or sick leave; Finally, 5000 euros per year for three years to promote the retention in practice of doctors involved in coordinated care procedures. In addition, doctors in these municipalities receive a tax exemption from the remuneration received in respect of the permanence of outpatient care, at a rate of 60 days per year. The other major lever is a better organization of health professionals, so that their presence is sustainable and continuous: I am thinking among other things of the development of co-ordinated exercise structures and of the territorial professional health communities (CPTS). In Sambre-Avesnois, seven multi-professional health homes are now operational, and an eighth is in the process of being accompanied. Finally, of course, I am thinking of training, master's degree in university internships or the development of telemedicine: the use of telemedicine grew exponentially during the crisis and it is a real achievement in terms of access to care, on the basis of which we must build. So there are still other tools to be mobilised, undeniably, and we are mobilizing them. The project is still under way, but the Government has provided necessary responses that are diverse and adapted to local circumstances.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u34	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor to put his question, No. 1692, on the financing of private psychiatry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u35	My question concerns the modalities for implementing the reform of the financing of psychiatry, which came into force on 1 January 2022. As France suffers the full impact of the covid-19 pandemic on mental health, this reform weakens actors who are essential to support the French in their difficulties. Independent actors are seriously affected by the reform; This is particularly the case with independent private clinics throughout the country, which are essential for the provision of community-based mental health care. While 20 % of the remuneration of these institutions is linked to supplementary health insurance (CHI), the latter's financing of benefits is based on the introduction of a system of advance payments calculated on the basis of the revenue recorded during the period from June 2020 to January 2021 – a period of historical decline in activity, due to the epidemic of covid-19. This down payment system does not include the increases in charge of the new authorisations implemented in the second half of 2021 and early 2022. Similarly, the reform establishes a five-year financial guarantee system, through action contracts with regional health agencies (RHAs) to make specific contributions to the provision of care in the territories. The fulfilment of these commitments involves investments not over five years, but over ten to fifteen years, which are no longer guaranteed. Can you tell us, Mr Secretary of State, what contracts have been entered into – with the corresponding fees – as part of the reform, and what solutions can be implemented very quickly to ensure the sustainability of independent private psychiatric institutions? These represent an essential part of the provision of community-based mental health care and an even larger part of the community's ability to adapt to mental health in the field. This is a truly important issue for the stability of our mental health care system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u36	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u37	The issue of mental health is a major concern of the Government. It was before the health crisis: many indicators relating to the mental health of our fellow citizens, especially the younger ones, were already worrying, and the problem of the organisation of the sector was already present. The crisis has, of course, amplified the problems we were facing in this sector. The reform of the financing of psychiatry is based on two fundamental changes in the remuneration of institutions, which concern on the one hand their financing by compulsory health insurance, on the other hand the definition of a daily benefit rate, the value of which is determined at national level for supplementary health insurance. The second amendment will have financial effects, the smoothing of which is actually organised over several years, but in the long run it will be through the first side of the reform, concerning remuneration through compulsory health insurance, that the financing capacity of the institutions will be mainly affected. Institutions benefit from transition mechanisms specific to this aspect of the reform, designed to give them visibility over their resources over the next four years. This reform is primarily a toolbox designed to fund the most appropriate responses to the mental health needs of our fellow citizens, to which private independent health institutions obviously contribute and will continue to contribute in this new framework, faced with issues that are more pressing than ever. It will enable appropriate solutions to be found through a territorialised consultation, within the framework of the new psychiatry sections of the Advisory Committees for the allocation of resources to regional health agencies. The objective is to take into account at best the territorial specificities in terms of organisation and provision of care. Independent private clinics are full players in the provision of psychiatric care, registered in various and demanding developments. Even if the reform of financing is part of these developments, it is not intended to weaken them. I would like to stress this again, because I hear the concerns that lie behind your question, honourable Member. I even think that this reform can be an opportunity for private clinics, provided that they take on the new forms of management dialogue that it induces and that they take place in the provision of care promoted in the territories. In any event, I have no doubt that these institutions will be fully involved in these reflections and in the new territorial organizations in order to deal with the major issues of mental health which, in this crisis, concern our fellow citizens from the youngest to the oldest. We already feel the first consequences of what is probably one of the delayed effects of the health crisis, from which we are just beginning to emerge.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u38	Mr Remy Rebeyrotte has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u39	I insist, Mr Secretary of State, on the urgency of acting with the actors, so as not to put them in a difficult situation, and on the need to give them guarantees so that they can invest in the long term: this is a key element for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u40	Mr Laurent Saint-Martin, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question, No. 1693, on medical desertification.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u41	My question concerns the eligibility of all the communes of Plateau briard in Val-de-Marne for state aid to combat medical desertification. The Plateau briard, which is located in my constituency, consists of five communes: Mandres-les-Roses, Marolles-en-Brie, Périgny-sur-Yerres, Santeny and Villecresnes. In total, these municipalities have about 30,000 inhabitants. On 7 December, together with the rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, Thomas Mesnier, I organised a public meeting on medical desertification, which was attended by general practitioners and representatives of the regional health agency. It was to acknowledge that the medical supply was now insufficient and that we had to act. You know a lever of action, Mr Secretary of State, that of State aid for the fight against medical desertification. However, this leverage requires that we ensure that zoning is consistent with the medical offer in each of these municipalities. Today, 17 general practitioners are present on the Plateau briard. According to the potential accessibility indicator localised to the doctor (APL), created by the decree of 13 November 2017, this represents in the worst cases 2.3 consultations per year and per inhabitants – for example in the municipalities of Marolles-en-Brie and Santeny. By comparison, in neighbouring cities such as Valenton, which is also in the Val-de-Marne and in my constituency, the rates are higher – 3.5 consultations per year and per capita. However, the zoning of the municipalities is not consistent: the city of Valenton is classified as a priority intervention zone (ZIP), when the municipalities of Marolles-en-Brie and Santeny, where the rates are lower, are classified as a complementary action zone (ZAC). If reference is made to Decree No. 2017-632 of 25 April 2017 on the conditions for determining areas with insufficient care or difficulties in accessing care, or where the level of supply is particularly high, the medical supply is insufficient if the APL indicator points to a number of consultations per year per capita of less than 2.5, for a classification in ZIP, and between 2.5 and 4, for a classification in ZAC. You understand, Mr. Secretary of State, that these different zonings are inconsistent with the reality of the number of per capita consultations per year. The five communes of the Plateau briard that I mentioned correspond exactly to the criteria of classification: the APL amounts to 3.3 for Mandres-les-Roses, 2.3 for Marolles-en-Brie, 3.2 for Périgny-sur-Yerres, 2.3 for Santeny and 3.3 for Villecresnes. My question is quite simple, Mr Secretary of State: can you ensure, in accordance with the 2017 decree, that all the municipalities of the Plateau briard are classified at least in ZAC and, for those whose APL is less than 2.5, in ZIP, so that more state aid can be provided to them? This would be a major step in the joint fight against medical desertification – a step clearly expected by the inhabitants of the territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u42	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families, on a subject that is clearly of concern to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u43	You're right, Mr. President. We know the commitment of MP Laurent Saint-Martin to access the care of fellow citizens in his constituency. Following the Order of the Minister of Solidarity and Health of 1 October 2021 – as you recalled, Mr. Member of Parliament – the regional health agency (ARS) of Île-de-France is currently conducting a consultation with many partners for the implementation of demographic zoning, which determines the territories eligible, in particular, for health insurance and state aid. For Île-de-France, this zoning must be stopped before the end of March: it will thus update the zoning that was carried out in 2018. Numerous exchanges are under way, in particular with the Regional Conference on Health and Autonomy and with the Regional Union of Health Professionals (URPS) liberal physicians of Île-de-France, in order to validate the principles, method and results of the future zoning. Other important actors on this subject are also consulted, such as the Councils of the Order of Physicians, France Assos Santé, the unions of young doctors and interns and, of course, the representatives of local authorities. In Île-de-France, the method proposed by the ARS complements the APL method that you mentioned, Mr. MP, of criteria that the latter does not foresee and that we believe, like the partners with which we are discussing, they influence the medical demographics and the needs of the population in general medical care. In this way, we wish to incorporate, in addition to the many criteria of medical demography, criteria relating to the social characteristics and morbidity of the population. It is difficult for me, at this stage, to prejudge the final selection of the territories which will be considered as deficiency in the offer of general medicine, but the guarantees provided by the proposed method and the broad consultation initiated by the SRA must allow to select the areas which present the most difficulties in this field. On the other hand, the illustration that you made was quite clear, Mr.Member, about the disparities in the current zoning, whether it is ZAC or ZIP. I therefore have no doubt that the guidelines you are advocating can be adopted. I will ask the SRA that you be fully informed and involved in the decisions that will be made.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u44	The next speaker is Mr Bruno Questel, to put his question, No. 1694, concerning the revalorisation of wages in the medico-social sector.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u45	I would like to draw your attention, Secretary of State, to the scope of the salary adjustment set by Decree No. 2020-1152 of 19 September 2020. On 13 July 2020, at the end of the Segur de la santé, public servants in the hospital service of health institutions and EHPADs received a salary increase of 183 euros. In the private not-for-profit sector, the staff of the same establishments received a salary increase of 160 euros. On 11 February 2021, this upgrading was extended to the staff of public institutions in the social and medico-social sector. However, staff working in the non-profit private sector, also working in the social and medico-social sector, have not benefited from this wage increase, despite their daily commitment to the most vulnerable. This difference in treatment is incomprehensible to the staff involved, while they work in the same occupation, sometimes in the same establishment. This situation is also detrimental in order to carry out the mission of accompanying vulnerable people. In all the territories, the associations concerned faced difficulties in recruiting professionals, with many vacancies. This shortage of health-care workers, nurses, educators, medical-psychological aids and managers today prevents the teams from ensuring that the activities essential to the life and well-being of the users of these services are carried out on a daily basis and in good conditions. Important hopes have been placed in the drafting of the Social Security Financing Bill (PLFSS) for 2022, but this text, in its article 29, seems to be aimed only at caregivers and non-careers of institutions and services for the elderly and disabled, when the structure in which they operate is financed by social security. This would exclude employees from all establishments and services financed, for example, by a departmental council, which still causes the misunderstanding of the professionals concerned. That is why I ask you, Secretary of State, to clarify the scope of the salary adjustment established by the PLFSS for 2022. To what extent, if any, do you intend to eliminate the unrighteousness that would be proven?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u46	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u47	You probably followed, Mr. Member, the announcements made by the Prime Minister last Friday on the occasion of the conference of trades of social and medico-social accompaniment. This important moment was expected by all professionals in the sector, who want their commitment to be recognized on a daily basis, especially during the health crisis: they too were on the front line. This trades conference was an opportunity for the Government and the Assembly of the French Departments (ADF) to commit themselves to wage increases amounting to EUR 1.3 billion in favour of professionals in the socio-educational sector, in the continuity of the revalorisation measures already implemented since 2020. A special effort has been announced to put an end to the inequities found – which you mentioned, Mr. MP – in the ratings that benefit caregivers, or in the home, as a result of the approach begun since 2020. This seems to me to be the heart of your question. Through the National Solidarity Fund for Self-Government (CNSA), the State will finance the transposition of salary adjustments to all EHPAD co-ordinators for an amount of EUR 40 million. For their part, the departments, supported by a state contribution of 30%, will ensure the transposition of the upgrades of doctors, midwives and maternal and child care workers (MCH) – I was particularly careful that they are included in the agreement we announced on Friday – as well as other territorial structures, for an amount of EUR 60 million. The State will also ensure that health care providers in the prevention, screening and support structures for people with social difficulties are also upgraded. Finally, again through the CNSA, the State will confirm that half of the revalorisation of the home help professionals of the communal centres for social action (CCAS) will be taken over on the models of amendment 43 of the home help branch, amounting to EUR 40 million. Attention has therefore been paid to all sectors of activity not only to combat the inequities that you have mentioned, but also to show the recognition of the nation towards social and medico-social professionals, and to combat the lack of attractiveness of these professions. We need to ensure that the professionals in the professions of liaison and care in the broad sense, who work with our most fragile citizens – elderly or disabled people, young people in the field of child protection – feel well in the performance of their duties. This was the issue of the conference of trades in social and medico-social accompaniment which took place on Friday morning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u48	Mrs Michèle Tabarot has the floor to put her question, No. 1696, on health projects in the territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u49	The state's support for health initiatives in the territories is of varying geometry: I will mention two specific examples that bear witness to this. The first is the major modernisation project launched by Grasse Hospital, worth 32 million euros, largely self-financed, which is supported by only 10% by the State. In view of the significant budgetary implications this project will have for the establishment in the years to come, it hoped to obtain additional support, within the framework of the Ségur de la santé, to carry it out. This will not be the case, since the project has been declared ineligible. The hospital will receive only a little more than 4 million euros from the 1.5 billion envelope planned for the Provence-Alpes-Côte-d'Azur (PACA) region: it is far too little. In comparison, the Antibes-Juan-les-Pins hospital will receive €10 million, the Cannes hospital €25 million and the University Hospital (CHU) in Nice €200 million, plus €125 million for financial sanitation. This is great news for these institutions – I'm glad – but it shows that a much greater effort could be made at Grasse Hospital. The latter is penalized because he has mastered his budget and has already launched his project – note that he did so at the request of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. This situation is not right, and we hope that it will benefit from an additional effort. The second example relates to the funding of immunization centres. In September, more than sixty communes, representing millions of French, wrote to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister asking that the State take a greater share in the financing of vaccination centres. Three points need to be made: first, the vaccination strategy would have failed without the exceptional mobilisation of the communes; then, health is a competence of the State, not communes; Finally, the State is not at the time of the financial compensation. The operating costs of vaccination centres are high and many municipalities bear up to 90%: this is unfair. I regret that the Head of State and the Government have not bothered to respond to the letters of the communes, which have been irreproachable and deserve to be respected. Mr Secretary of State, can you commit yourself to reviewing the situation of the hospital in Grasse, so that he can see more aid taking into account the impact of his modernisation project? Moreover, will you finally take your full part in the financing of local vaccination centres, in order to meet the legitimate expectations of the communes?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u50	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u51	As part of the Ségur de l'investissement, the PACA region has benefited – as you mentioned – from an initial allocation of EUR 1.191 billion, to which the Regional Health Agency (RHA) has added 150 million, thanks to the mobilisation of its regional intervention fund. Within this envelope, EUR 743 million is spent on the financial consolidation and restoration of the financial margins of the most deteriorated structures. We can be glad that Grasse's hospital is not in this category – I do not think he was punished for his good financial situation, on the contrary. It has also received aid of around EUR 2 million under the investment component. In the area of structural investment, a concerted approach has been launched in the territories to identify priorities. For the Alpes-Maritimes, the priorities are to renovate and secure the very degraded or unworthy architectural situations of certain establishments, to strengthen the link between health care, medico-social and city medicine – as in many other territories – and to strengthen the medicalisation of the less populated territories, and to better accompany the ageing of the population as well as the caregivers who face them. The project presented by the Grasse Hospital has been selected for this purpose: it has been granted €2.25 million in provisional assistance, and additional funding from the region has been announced to the tune of €1 million. On the other hand, its older projects have not been systematically included in the Ségur de la santé: this is the case, in particular, of the project to modernize its medical-technical platforms, whose principle and financing plan had been validated several years earlier. This does not mean that these projects are lost sight of: they must be subject to annual reviews in order to assess their evolution both in terms of real estate and in terms of financial sustainability. As far as vaccination centres are concerned, the state, through the SRAs, compensates a large part – but not all – of the expenses incurred by the local authorities, in ways that it is difficult for me to summarize here, but which, to my knowledge, have not called any remarks from the city of Grasse – even though I have heard that you have sent, along with other local elected officials, a letter to the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister, to which you have not received an answer: I will look at what is happening. The city of Grasse still has every opportunity to file files so that the additional costs incurred by the vaccination centres in recent times can be offset.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u52	Mrs Michèle Tabarot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u53	The ARS forced the Grasse Hospital to sell a property worth €7 million to clean up its finances. As a result, the institution made a special effort and, as a result, was not supported in the same way as other hospitals. In addition, sixty communes signed the letter I mentioned concerning vaccination centres. By way of illustration, the SRA's assistance covered only 10% of the expenses incurred by my municipality, Le Cannet, while it invested a great deal to accommodate all those in need of vaccination.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u54	The next speaker is Mr Bertrand Pancher, to put his question, No 1703, on the Bar-le-Duc hospital.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u55	I would like to draw the attention of the Minister for Solidarity and Health to the necessary reconstruction of the Bar-le-Duc hospital. One of the Government's four priority areas for health care was to define a new investment policy for health care. In March 2021, a national investment strategy was launched, amounting to EUR 19 billion. In the context of the arbitrations rendered by the Regional Health Agency (ARS) Grand Est, the Bar-le-Duc hospital has only received aid of around €4.4 million to restore its financial capacity: this is obviously very insufficient, compared to its investment needs. This hospital, which is located in a basin of about 100,000 inhabitants, needs to be profoundly modernized in its architecture, and requires an important investment plan. Indeed, having been conceived about fifty years ago, and rebuilt almost forty years ago, it no longer meets current needs. The working conditions of the staff are made difficult by the configuration of the services, which is not the most effective – I am thinking in particular of the often small nursing stations. A renovation of the premises is launched in Bar-le-Duc, but the architectural complexity of the hospital and the lack of available surfaces lead to a chain of very complex drawer operations, which concern only part of the services. It therefore seems urgent to me to start a reflection on the reconstruction of the hospital centre of Bar-le-Duc, which merged on 1 January with that of Fains-Veel. This project, which will probably take about ten years, must be started today and benefit from the current plan to relaunch hospitals, as well as from the measures of the Secur de la santé. The public authorities will thus prove that they have understood the need to provide practical assistance to the Barrois health staff and to significantly improve the conditions for the care of patients. Such an investment would greatly improve the efficiency of care pathways and the quality of work of the health care workers and all the health care staff at the facility. I called on the Government and the Minister of Solidarity and Health to do so in December, when a mission for the reconstruction of the entire hospital in Bar-le-Duc was launched. I would like to know what the real commitment of the State will be in this regard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u56	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u57	Bar-le-Duc Hospital, part of the territory hospital group (GHT) The Grand East Heart, is fully integrated into the graduate courses that are organised between the member institutions – you have participated widely in them, and we are seeking this coherence. On 1 January 2022, its merger with the specialised hospital centre of Fains-Veel became effective, which reinforces the multidisciplinary offer and strengthens the lines of care, particularly in the fields of psychiatry and geriatrics. This hospital therefore has an essential role to play in the territory of the Great East Heart, which needs to be strengthened – I join you in this direction, Mr. To this end, we have embarked on an architectural project, which is under way. The work to modernise emergencies will begin within 15 days, after two years of consultation – this is a great achievement for all partners. A comprehensive operation to implant fifty additional beds in several services is also planned: follow-up and rehabilitation care, palliative care and neurovascular unity. Work will be done over the next three to four years to address these short- and medium-term challenges. The ARS Grand Est has already provided support of more than EUR 1 million from its regional appropriations, excluding Ségur's appropriations, to accompany the restructuring of the emergency department. It is legitimate to believe that the continuation of the project developed by the Bar-le-Duc hospital will be part of the continuation of the Ségur's work in support of major investments. The Great East SAR will investigate this issue with the establishment in light of the new analytical framework that, as you know, has been redefined by the National Health Investment Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u58	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u59	Drawer operations follow at the Bar-le-Duc hospital centre: as you pointed out, they have been under consideration for several years. I note that the Greater East SRA has a real interest in the overall restructuring of the establishment. I would therefore like to draw your attention to the need to reflect now on a comprehensive strategy for the total reconstruction of the hospital. Of course, we do not ask for the immediate realization – the operation will take about ten years – but we need to start a fundamental reflection on the subject. A succession of small operations will not solve the overall problem of the organization of care in this institution. I will regularly call the attention of the Minister of Solidarity and Health to this issue, which is very important for the Bar-le-Duc basin and the southern part of the Meuse department.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u60	Mr Jean Lassalle, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, raised his question No. 1704 concerning the situation of emergency workers in the hospital of Oloron-Sainte-Marie.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u61	I would like to alert the Minister of Solidarity and Health to the intolerable situation of the emergency service practitioners at the hospital in Oloron-Sainte-Marie in my constituency. For more than two years, these practitioners have repeatedly been subject to the problem of medical staff, the lack of staff, interns and temporary workers, and they are constantly alerting the competent departments of the State, whether the ministry, the prefecture or the regional health agency (ARS), in vain. On 11 June 2020, they tried to draw attention, by mail, to the future workforce and the urgent need to recruit new hospital practitioners in their service, while explaining the particular difficulty of this recruitment and proposing possible areas for improvement. Various bodies and actors in public life, including the Prefect, the Sub-Prefect and the SRA, have been alerted again, but no response has ever been given. Thus, a letter on this subject addressed to the management of the ARS in January 2021 remained unanswered. Subsequently, the threat of the law aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, known as the Rist Act, reinforced this fragile situation and highlighted the fact that the team could not continue to function in this way, relying only on its dedication and the appeal of mostly individual stakeholders. According to the staff concerned, the management of the SRA is content, for its part, to assign to the work the incumbent hospital practitioners. This is why they expect the management of the hospital, which has the prerogative to take all necessary measures to ensure the organisation of a minimum service guaranteeing the physical safety of persons and the continuity of care, that it fills the recurring shortage of staff. To get to the point, I would point out that no action has been taken to date and that the emergency department is closed. As a result, the situation is disastrous for the commune of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, which is at the heart of a pool of 60000 patients: there is a great deal of concern on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u62	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u63	The situation of the emergency department of the hospital in Oloron-Sainte-Marie is indeed difficult. It is characterised first of all by a large number of temporary workers who represent 60% of the emergency team, by an internal functioning marked by numerous tensions which led to the intervention of the Director General and above all by a complicated collaboration with the hospital centre in Pau. These various factors are at the root of the general situation of tension of which the public authorities are fully aware. Since 2018, we have been talking to emergency staff in the field to create this team. The views have long been very divergent, which explains the tensions. You know the situation better than any other, Mr. Member, as well as the local elected representatives, in order to pay attention to it for a long time. The ARS of New Aquitaine is fully mobilized also on this issue. Faced with the tensions encountered by the hospital in 2021 within the mobile emergency and resuscitation structure (SMUR), particularly in the context of the covid-19 epidemic and the local medical demography, an assignment during the end-of-year celebrations of 2021 was actually decided by the director of the hospital centre of Oloron-Sainte-Marie, at the request of the ARS, for the reasons of security that one imagines. A meeting was organised by the departmental delegation of the ARS at the end of January in order to work towards harmonization of practices and to seek lasting solutions. The protagonists now appear to be less closed and willing to collaborate in a working group. These evidences attest to the continuing commitment of the New Aquitaine SRA to this particularly sensitive situation. All the actors concerned must continue to be part of this dynamic of enhanced cooperation and, thanks to the mediation of the SRA, the framework for the proper functioning of care services in the territory is emerging. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health is obviously very attentive to this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u64	Mr Jean Lassalle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u65	Given the extreme state of emergency, everything the department can do will be welcome.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u66	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to put her question, No. 1705, on the future of the public hospital and the age-dependent and medico-social sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u67	The Tarn-et-Garonne, like many other departments, is experiencing a decline in its medical demographics, which seriously endangers access to health care. The reorganisation of the emergency services, with the closing on the night of the emergencies of the Castelsarrasin-Moissac intercommunal hospital (CHICM), illustrates the shortage of emergency doctors. Can you therefore detail the measures on which the Ministry of Solidarity and Health is working in order to return to a normal situation and find lasting solutions? Is reform of the special education diploma in emergency medicine (DESMU) envisaged to make the profession more attractive? As far as city medicine is concerned, I would point out that about 20,000 insured persons are without a doctor in Tarn-et-Garonne and that this figure has only increased in recent years. The medical and social sector has also suffered for months an unprecedented crisis and a haemorrhage of its staff: EHPAD, structures for people with disabilities such as APIM – Accompaniment, sharing, innovation in the medico-social – in Lavit-de-Lomagne, home services such as the APAS – Association for the Promotion of Autonomy and Health – in Castelsarrasin have become increasingly difficult to recruit caregivers and nurses. How do you intend to make these essential professions more attractive and valued? Although it is late, the Prime Minister's announcement of the extension of the 183-euro net revalorisation to care providers not previously concerned and to the socio-educational professions is good news: we had, in fact, alerted from the beginning of the Ségur de la santé on the risks of distortions and the need to include the socio-educational sector. There are now two points of vigilance: on the one hand, this commitment must not affect the finances of non-profit associative structures, as has been the case in previous valuations and disproportionately in our departments with very tight budgets; On the other hand, it will be necessary to ensure that these cascading announcements are translated into concrete actions. I am thinking of the shock of attractiveness of the promised professions and the large-scale emergency recruitment campaign in the health, old age and disability sectors, scheduled for April. The Government will also have to complete the convergence of collective agreements for greater readability and fairness. Can you specify its strategy, announced last Friday with 500 million euros, to restore attractiveness to the medical and social sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u68	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u69	Your question is multiple and I will focus my answer on some essential elements. First of all, in the face of the health crisis, Brigitte Bourguignon, deputy minister responsible for autonomy, ensured 40,000 emergency recruitments in the EHPADs and opened 10,000 nursing posts. In addition, an additional 10,000 posts have been budgeted in the last Social Security Financing Act, and I thank parliamentarians in this regard. This is therefore an unprecedented development and a significant rise in power. A qualitative strengthening of the support is also necessary – I would like to join you on this point: in concrete terms, we have wanted to strengthen the role of the coordinating doctors who will have to be present at least two days a week and generalize the demands of nurses at night, throughout the territory. Beyond the practical framework, we need to find people to hire. The question of attractiveness in the territories is important, a fortiori with regard to these professions. By improving all EHPAD staff, regardless of their status, with the help of Ségur de la santé, as well as, recently, all staff in the home nursing services (SSIAD) at a monthly rate of 183 euros net, we are working to make these professions more attractive. We also need more caregivers. Thanks to Ségur, we are, as you know, doubling the training capacity of nursing assistants: in two years, 2000 additional nursing training places have been opened. We have thus re-attracted these environments and professions. This also means transforming the EHPADs, so that they are in line with the aspirations of the residents, and facilitating the accompaniment. That is also what we have done by mobilising EUR 2.1 billion over four years for this purpose. As far as your constituency is concerned, Valencia-d'Agen, Montech, Montbeton, Moissac, Lamagistère and Beaumont-de-Lomagne have benefited more than €6 million from this first year in order to restructure, rebuild, rehabilitate and restore their funding margins.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u70	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u71	I hear a partial answer: there is no beginning of a lasting solution to the need to restructure emergency services in the Tarn-et-Garonne, which is a very strong concern not only of the hospital community but also and above all of the population. We expect concrete responses from the Government with a view to a return to normality. With regard to EHPADs and medico-social structures, I hear the Government's announcements. However, in the field, in the department and elsewhere, I find every time I visit an institution that officials report difficulties in recruiting nursing assistants or nurses, which is detrimental to the quality and care of our seniors. It is therefore urgent to deploy the necessary arrangements, to ask the question of the attractiveness of these professions and to strengthen training, in particular by including more alternance as proposed by the actors in the field.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u72	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor to put her question, No 1687, on rail transport.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u73	My question is for the Minister Delegate to the Minister of Environmental Transition, responsible for transportation. In my constituency of Montluçon in Allier, I have been hearing for almost five years how tired our fellow citizens are of feeling isolated, trying to find work or an accessible health service, being limited in their economic activity or simply being unable to travel freely because of a very high cost of access. One of the major problems is a rail network which has been completely abandoned for at least 30 years. That is why I welcome the opening up to competition and the measures adopted in the context of a major mobility reform. The impact of the new railway pact on the daily lives of French people is indeed much expected, in particular because of the fall in prices which it implies, as well as the effects, in the medium and long term, on economic development, spatial planning and the ecological transition. Like many of my colleagues, I therefore support the work of the Railcoop cooperative, which proposes to serve many cities between Bordeaux and Lyon. However, the project is not successful: the lack of anticipation of the opening to competition by the infrastructure manager has forced Railcoop to postpone the launch of its service for six months. In addition, there are difficulties for a new cooperative entrant to mobilise adequate financing from traditional investors. Furthermore, while opening up to competition benefits foreign companies such as Trenitalia, which has extended its activity on the railways of southern France since December, this is not yet the case for French companies, which I find regrettable. You will agree that administrative and economic errors can no longer justify the multiple delays observed. From now on, we are all eager to see our small railway stations and shops revive and bring doctors and businesses to the territories. What can we do? What financial support could be envisaged, in particular, in order to bring this project to a successful conclusion as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u74	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u75	This quinquennium, as you said, was an opportunity to embark on a structural railway reform to ensure the best offer of services in all territories. Indeed, we must remove all obstacles and promote modes of transport with less impact on the environment. The opening to competition provided for in the law for a new railway pact is one of the main levers of this policy and is already manifested in an improvement of the services on the TGV lines: several railway undertakings have thus indicated their intention to bring new offers, which was reflected in December 2021 by the arrival of Trenitalia France on the Paris-Lyon-Milan link. As far as regional express transport (TER) is concerned, as you know, the competition decision is a matter for the regions. The Provence-Alpes-Côte-d'Azur region has already awarded two lots, one to Transdev and the other to SNCF, for commissioning as early as 2025, which will allow a significant increase in the supply. Other regions will follow. In line with this expansion of supply, new players, such as Railcoop, are emerging. This is an unprecedented initiative in France, bringing together more than 10,000 members and more and more legal and public entities. The cooperative company was planning to launch its first passenger services on the Bordeaux-Lyon axis as early as June 2022, but it has reported difficulties in obtaining from SNCF Réseau des sillons to meet its needs: these are now resolved and Railcoop aims to bring the Bordeaux-Lyon line into service by the end of 2022. The framework has therefore been set; the initiatives are multiplying and allow the players of the new railway system to learn to work together – this coordination was also an issue to bring new mobility solutions to the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u76	Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u77	I wanted to focus on the financial difficulties this company is facing. I sent a number of letters to Bercy asking whether his co-operative status could be derogated from in order to help her financially so that she could launch her first passenger train service on the Bordeaux-Lyon axis on 11 December this year, but I was not answered.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u78	Mrs Souad Zitouni has the floor to raise her question, No. 1689, concerning the east-west link in the Vaucluse.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u79	On 5 January 2020, Prime Minister Jean Castex announced the resumption of the project of road bypass of the east-west link (LEO) of Avignon, notably its second section which is intended to relieve congestion in the district of La Rocade where thousands of residents live victims of air, sound and visual pollution generated by the passage, under their windows, of many heavy vehicles and nearly 35,000 vehicles. This project was the subject of a public consultation from February to March 2021, in which I participated, stressing the need to take into account the opinions of the environmental authority and the National Council for Nature Protection (CNPN), without calling into question the need to decongest the roads in the centre of the agglomeration, in order to unblock this file, which has been stuck for almost forty years. Following this public consultation and the actions of the environmental authorities, a new inter-prefectural order was adopted to introduce new compensatory measures aimed at preserving the environment, including the ecosystems present. I was also invited by local environmental associations to visit the green belt and listen to concerns about it. That is why I have asked for further studies to estimate the impact of the future section on the health of residents without delaying the schedule of operations. On 15 October, the State and local authorities agreed on "the need to consolidate the case without calling into question the operation" and thus to conduct further studies. I was recently questioned by many citizens about the embolisation of many arteries, even during school holidays, still in Avignon. At the crossroads of public health issues and environmental issues, these complementary studies are expected by the people of my constituency. So, Madam Secretary of State for Biodiversity, could you give us more information on their directions and the timetable for their implementation, because if this is a strong expectation?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u80	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u81	You are asking me about the progress of the project of the east-west road link of Avignon, known as LEO, which is effectively controlled by the State. It is a clearly structuring project for the territory of Vaucluse that will both significantly improve the service to the avignonnaise agglomeration and remove its city centre. This obviously provides a better living environment for the thousands of residents concerned, the majority of whom are residents of the priority areas of the city's policy in Avignon. This project is also the missing link to organize the modal shift towards public transport and green mobility. A first tranche was put into service in 2010, and the second tranche benefits from a registration of nearly 143 million euros, of which 54 million are financed by the State under the State-region plan contract in force in Provence-Alpes-Côte-d'Azur. To allow this realization, you said, the environmental authorization of the second tranche, which is necessary for the start of the work, was taken by prefectural decree of 31 May 2021. It was, however, the subject of a legal action which was launched last October before the Administrative Court of Marseille. Be aware that this contentious procedure does not call into question the will of the State to continue the development of the OEL: perhaps we simply need to consider consolidating and guaranteeing the legal certainty of the operation. It was therefore in consultation with its co-financers that it was decided to initiate further studies aimed precisely at consolidating this environmental assessment and thereby ensuring legal certainty. On this basis, a new application for environmental authorisation will be requested in 2022, with a view to enabling work to start as early as 2023. A steering committee will be held, if necessary, in the summer of 2022 to inform co-financers of the progress of these complementary studies and the next procedural steps. In any case, be aware that the State remains attentive to the balance between the need for these new mobilitys and their environmental impacts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u82	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor to put his question, No. 1679, on the "truck stop" operation and air quality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u83	We know the importance of air quality issues and Strasbourg does not escape the rule, in particular the Avenue du Rhin which suffocates. To solve this problem, which raises several issues, there are several solutions. First of all, it is a question of saying that we have known and still know about over-betonization in certain places, particularly along the Rhine Avenue. Citizens' collectives, including the Neudorf Residents and Friends Association, have an active dialogue with the municipality to keep green lungs along the avenue. Secondly, it is necessary to say stop the traffic of heavy goods vehicles, the difference in taxes delaying their traffic from Germany. To do this, the Government has done what is necessary by giving the European Community of Alsace (CEA) the opportunity to manage these issues, in particular to create, where appropriate, a heavyweight tax. Thirdly, we must stop the transit traffic which should use the western bypass of Strasbourg which is now operating and which diverts many heavy goods vehicles and the traffic of heavy goods vehicles from the city centre of Strasbourg. That is why it is necessary to stop the heavy goods vehicles who choose to continue using these transit routes within the city rather than taking the bypasses that have been created. How can citizens be reassured about the functioning of roadside checks? How can they be guaranteed that the State is present to stop this illegal transit traffic and hope that air quality can improve year after year?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u84	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u85	The introduction of the A355, on 17 December, has enabled the Eurometropolis of Strasbourg and the European Community of Alsace, the managers of the A35 motorway – now M35 – since 1 January 2021, to put in place, in connection with the State, a ban on the movement of heavy goods vehicles in transit throughout the territory concerned. I believe that this ban, combined with the A355's new high-service route, already has significant effects. To date, almost 40% of heavy-duty traffic previously transiting through the heart of Strasbourg's metropolis via the M35 has actually been redirected to the A355. It is thus 4000 lorries a day that no longer transit through Strasbourg. This is therefore a real significant step forward. The first results of this ban are very encouraging, even if they need to be supported by roadside controls. We thank the security forces who, under the aegis of the Prefect of Bas-Rhin, regularly organise these checks, as well as the municipal police in Strasbourg, which contribute to the observance of this ban. Of the month of January 2022 alone, nearly 110 contraventions were issued. These regular checks will continue to allow for the gradual implementation of this ban. In addition, the European community of Alsace and the Government have been working for several years on the creation, in the medium term, of a heavy goods vehicle charge on the territory of the CEA in order to prevent freight carriers from travelling in Alsace rather than on the German roads paying. The bill to ratify ECA's jurisdiction orders was passed, on second reading last week in the Senate, where I was for this review. These ordinances, which came into force in May 2021, provide ECA with the necessary tools to regulate road freight transport flows, including the possibility of introducing a road transport tax on certain roads in its public road domain. This joint work between the state and the communities allows this mechanism to be launched on a good track, and we can reassure the people of your constituency unequivocally of the Government's willingness to enforce this law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u86	Mr Sylvain Waserman has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u87	I thank you for these figures, which are important and show that the infrastructure is followed by effective controls to stop this illicit transit traffic. I must stress the involvement of the Prefect whom I have been able to contact, and who invites the elected representatives to join her on "truck stop" operations to really show the effectiveness of these controls. In any case, we will be vigilant with you as regards compliance with this regulation, which will finally allow the inhabitants of Avenue du Rhin and, more generally, Strasbourg to breathe a little better.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u88	Mr Damien Abad has the floor to put his question, No. 1697, on school closures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u89	Once again, the school card for the school year 2022-2023 shows this: your policy of abolishing classrooms sacrifices rural departments, like the department of Ain, on the altar of an accounting vision of the school. Last year, I denounced twenty-three class closures in our department of Ain; This year, the number is still increasing, as these are now thirty-five additional class deletions in small communes, in Izenave, in Corcelles, on the plateau d'Hauteville and in Tenay. Unfortunately, this policy is a failure on the part of the President of the Republic and the Minister of National Education, who committed themselves not to close any classes in any school during this period of health crisis. This policy is also a violation of territorial equality because rural territories are faced with difficulties and a sense of abandonment and already face overcrowded classes. As you know, the educational divide is unfortunately a reality in our rural areas. This policy is also a breach of equal opportunities, because rural house arrest is an ever-increasing reality for these young people, an ever-deeper breach of the republican promise of social ascent. This policy is still a violation of school inclusion because it affects, particularly in my constituency, a primary school classified as a Priority Education Network (PRN), in Tenay, which hosts a classroom of education in autism elementary for children simply with severe autistic disorders. As we see, with this educational policy it is the quality of our children's learning that is degraded, it is also the working conditions of teachers that are deteriorated, at a time when the level of education is declining and the mastery of basic knowledge is at risk. It is not just a cost, it must be a chance, a chance simply for society. You must therefore correct this educational divide and simply ensure that each of our children is given this opportunity, regardless of where he lives, regardless of the territory, whether rural or not, where he is. Madam Secretary of State for Biodiversity, I am counting on the Government to at least correct this school map, particularly for the Tenay school, which is classified as a REP and which includes a teaching unit in Autism Elementary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u90	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u91	As you know, primary school is a priority. We have widely highlighted this priority between the 2017 and 2021 academic years, since 14380 positions were created in a context of sharp demographic decline with 259,000 students less in the first degree public. This effort is therefore very significant. At the beginning of the 2021 school year, with an additional 2,489 positions in the first degree, despite a demographic decline of 78,000 pupils, the conditions of education and replacement continue to improve. The aim of these new posts is to allow for the further duplication of the classes of the major section of kindergarten in priority education, the capping of the number of pupils in the classes to twenty-four pupils in the main section, CP and CE1 out of priority education and to improve the conditions of practice of the principals. For the beginning of the 2022 school year, more than 2000 means of education will be created in spite of a projected population decline of 67,000 pupils. We are committed, and we are committed, to ensuring that no closure of schools in rural areas takes place without the mayor's agreement, which gives rise to a very fine examination of local situations. Exceptionally, at the beginning of 2020 we did not close any classes in rural areas, and from 2021 we resumed these discussions with a very close examination of each specific local situation. This work of preparing the school map gives rise to many exchanges with the elected representatives. The situation of each school is observed in the light of local specificities. I am myself a High Marnaise and, in this context, we are very committed to the measures provided for in the rural agenda to ensure genuine vigilance with regard to the specific conditions in rural areas. For the department of Ain, the number of pupils per class was 23.6 at the beginning of 2021, which is an improvement compared to the 2019 school year, where it was 23.8. Similarly, the number of teachers per 100 pupils also showed a gradual improvement, from 5.16 in the 2016 school year to 5.35 in the 2021 school year. We cannot, of course, be content with figures, and we must always be vigilant with regard to the daily life actually lived, a fortiori by young pupils. For the 2002 school year, the rate of supervision in the department of Ain will have to increase further, reaching 5.44 posts per 100 pupils, with the creation of 39 posts, while 246 fewer pupils are expected in the schools of the department. As for replacement needs, a recruitment authorization of 3300 FTEs – full-time equivalents – was announced in January to meet the increased need for replacements in primary education. We are aware of the difficulties encountered by some of these schools in hyper-rurality, while being aware of the need to balance the numbers. However, I would also like to point out that we observe very good experiments in hyper-rurality, in connection with protected areas. We have thus been able to carry out experiments in some departments on projects related to the school of nature, which I would be happy to present to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u92	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u93	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to raise her question, No. 1688, on the RN88 and the Lescure shoulder.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u94	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw the Government's attention to a situation specific to my constituency. Albi-Carmaux territory has never been so polarized. For many years now, we have been facing a real problem with the RN88 at the level of the commercial area between the entrance of Albi and the town of Lescure, at the famous roundabout of the Arquipeyre: this passage is saturated and becomes invivable for all citizens who have no choice but to cross it, not to mention the trucks and other vehicles that will search for other axes and cross other small communes, which are beginning to be heavily affected, such as that of Arthur. In 2000 a project of great bypass of Albi was validated but, since then, nothing has been done because of the lack of consensus among the elected representatives. The other solutions proposed, namely to modify the current flow by separating urban traffic from long-term traffic or to make a deviation at the level of Lescure, are not very successful either: the first requires costly studies, which also depend on the consent of the community of agglomeration of Albi, and the second does not satisfy the community of Lescure and its inhabitants. The north-west bypass is not a specific subject of Albige: it is an issue of openness and planning of the territory, which has not escaped the Grenelle de l'Environnement and the Environmental Authority. The RN88 is still one of the few road projects still included in the national transport infrastructure scheme (SNIT) and tolerated by the Grenelle de l'Environnement. On the other hand, in other departments the issue of roads is ubiquitous. By negotiations supported, the Aveyron has just obtained the setting twice of two tracks of the RN88 on the whole department for 2027 and, in fact, if nothing is done at the level of Albi and Lescure, it will soon be easier for the Carmausin to turn to Rodez than to Albi. The latest figures from the interdepartmental direction of South-West Roads (DIRSO) indicate a growth in traffic for 2019: in one year, the ring road has experienced an increase of 1500 vehicles per day, bringing traffic to 53200 vehicles. These data show that, as announced twenty years ago, the ring road is moving towards saturation before ten years. The issue of nuisances to residents is also becoming a matter of great concern. The development of the northern Tarn must be carried out in an integrated manner, around a road network designed in advance and controlled. We must, collectively, have an objective attitude, at the height of the stakes, leaving aside the politics and individual interests, thus bringing together State and local, departmental and regional authorities, in order to find a solution to this issue which will definitely draw the route of the Lyon-Toulouse motorway that the territory needs. It is necessary to act also for Lescure, and to consider clear and precise solutions. Whatever solution is chosen, there is a need for one, and I would like to ask you today, Madam Secretary of State, because all my territory and myself are counting on you to move forward with the issue, which has been blocked at the local level for far too long already. What solutions do we have to change this situation, which is becoming increasingly critical every day?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u95	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u96	Madam Member, thank you for this question. The first phase of this security and fluidisation programme across Lescuré-d'Albigeois is under construction, and the necessary funding was put in place in 2020 under the recovery plan, i.e. more than 5 million euros, of which 1.5 million were financed by the State. The continuation of the operation is intended to be included in the next State-region plan contract. The communities concerned wanted to see a preliminary study of the development of the RN88 that would ensure longer-term fluidity. Of course, the Government shares this commitment to ensure satisfactory and sustainable conditions of displacement in the Territory. In the urban context of Albi, they must not be limited to the road mode alone, but must be broadly based on a multimodal perspective. This vision, which, at least in part, is intended to be carried out by the communities responsible for organising mobility, must be shared. In order to initiate a positive dynamic, we asked that a diagnosis be made of the malfunctions that could persist on the RN88 crossing Albi, following the completion of the ongoing development programme under the law of Lescure-d'Albigeois. The results of this study will be used by the communities concerned to identify possible routes, such as public transport or local road development. For the State and its road network, the Government has requested that the appropriateness of the so-called Lescure ramp be re-examined in the light of this diagnosis, so that, given its cost and impacts, including environmental impacts, the relevance of the proposed devices can be reassessed. The assumption of a large north-west bypass, due to its significant environmental impact, the low traffic that it is likely to receive and its link with the projects already carried out on the route, such as the double-tracking of the Albi ring road, does not appear, in these circumstances, to be a lasting solution. You can be assured of the mobilization of the State to improve mobility in the territory. Community commitment, including financial commitment, is also essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u97	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u98	However, I would like to point out that 10,000 vehicles in transit, of which 13 per cent are heavy goods vehicles, traveled on a daily basis. So circumvention is not so stupid as that, even if it cannot be the only solution. Urban traffic is not the only problem: there is also long-term traffic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u99	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor to raise her question, No. 1695, concerning the development of the RN57 in the Besançon area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u100	At the beginning of 2021, the State and the regions agreed on the strategic guidelines of the State-Region Plan (CPER) contracts for 2021-2027. In Burgundy-Franche-Comté, the new CPER and the State-Region Recovery Agreement amount to almost 2.75 billion euros. As part of the ongoing discussion phase on the identification of actions and the shift in funding for the period 2023-2027, the major transport infrastructure investments are discussed. In the Besançon agglomeration, a development project is planned for the setting up of two RN57 lanes at the level of the western bypass of the city and for the creation of facilities for non-car modes of transport. This section has one of the largest volumes of traffic in the agglomeration. Traffic is very dense throughout the day, with heavy congestion and traffic in the riparian areas up to the hypercentre, causing noise and environmental nuisances, and insecurity for the inhabitants. Projections at 2025 and 2045 by the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing (DREAL) show a saturation of 80% to 100% in peak hours in the morning and 100% to 120% in the evening. Changes in behaviour and the development of other modes of transport than cars will not be sufficient to alleviate congestion, either now or in the years to come. This is an additional risk to the attractiveness of the territory and its links with Switzerland, which represent a strategic asset for the local economy. Recently, stakeholders have expressed support for their financial participation in the project. The communities of Besançon and Grand Besançon metropolis deliberated in favour of 25% participation, the Doubs department committed 16 million euros, or 12.5 %, and the region publicly announced its agreement to finance 12.5 % in the event of a favourable opinion under the CPER. I would therefore like to know whether the Ministry is in a position to assert the favourable position of the State in this context in order to finance the remaining 50%, since the mandate of the Ministry responsible for transport is expected to allow the Regional Prefect to undertake the exchanges with the Regional Council.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u101	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u102	You call the attention of the Government to the project of putting twice two ways of the section of the bypass of Besançon between the "Boulettes" and Beure, stressing the importance for the territories of this operation, of which you wish to be inscribed in the future contract plan-State-region 2023-2027 of the region Burgundy-Franche-Comté. As you will recall, the project is to complete the last section of Besançon's bypass, thus allowing for the long-term fluidisation and security of transit and service traffic. The State is fully mobilized to ensure the proper progress of this operation. The preliminary studies were carried out as part of the current contract, allowing the launch of the public utility survey, prior to the public declaration, on 28 February and until 31 March. With a view to registering for the next contract, we welcome the progress that has emerged at the Steering Committee of 22 December 2021, bringing together the State and local authorities, on the basis of an estimated cost of EUR 130 million on the basis of 2020. I would like to assure you that this project is one of the regional priorities identified for the next contract. His inscription will therefore be studied with great attention. However, the expected participation of the State significantly exceeds that which had been retained for the completion of the other two sections of the bypass now in service. In view of the many expectations expressed at the regional level, as well as the large proportion of the project's cost of urban integration schemes, be they public transport schemes, soft modes, landscape integration or noise protection, additional support from the local authorities would strengthen the possibility of an effective registration of the operation in the next CPER. Pending this next contract, be assured that the State services are fully mobilized for this project.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u103	Mrs Fannette Charvier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u104	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the answers you have given me. I wanted to draw the Government's attention to the importance of this project for the bisontine agglomeration. I know that the infrastructure projects are numerous in the Burgundy-Franche-Comté region, but the development of this last section will complete the bypass of Besançon, committed many years ago, and will allow everyone to ride better and breathe better, while also allowing to foresee solutions of development of public transport on this section that they currently use very little, because they are in the same plugs as personal vehicles.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u105	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to put her question, No 1682 on emergency accommodation in Val-de-Marne.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u106	After the "no matter what it costs", here is the great return of the "no magic money". For Macronie, the crisis is only a parenthesis. If there is no longer containment, there is no longer any health reason to house the most vulnerable: from now on, they can quietly continue to live on the street. In Val-de-Marne, social workers are at the end. Between June and December 2021, more than 1200 emergency accommodation spaces were abolished. This decline must continue to return to the pre-crisis figure of just under 3400 places. To better exclude the poorest, you have tightened the criteria for access to emergency accommodation. But the social crisis has never been so strong! As the collectives of social workers in Val-de-Marne report, this couple with a one-and-a-half month-old baby is not a priority, and therefore not accomodated, nor is this family with a 7-year-old child forced to sleep under a bus stop at a temperature of 5 degrees. Same fate for these elderly people with health problems. These are the concrete consequences of the return of austerity: the unbearable sorting into misery. Madam Secretary of State, poverty has not disappeared from this country as if by magic. Have you read the latest report of the Fondation Abbé-Pierre on mal-housing in France? Since 2012, the number of homeless people has doubled to nearly 300,000. At the beginning of December last year, almost 4000 people called 115 each evening, due to the lack of emergency accommodation available. Last November, in Seine-Saint-Denis, sixty children under 3 years of age on the street could not be sheltered. You should be ashamed of these numbers. This is what the social emergency requires of us: a massive budget for a zero-home plan, the requisitioning of empty housing, the upgrading of the wages of social workers, the production of social housing, the prohibition of evictions without a housing solution, and I pass it. But for all of this, it is surely your place in the ministry that should be left.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u107	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u108	I note, Mrs. Panot, that you are speaking as nuanced as usual... The unbearable situations you have described, we know them and we are all bruised, but they remain isolated. Since they seem to you to remain unanswered, I invite you to consider objectively the state of the government's protection policy. The number of accommodation places increased by 50% during the quinquennium, setting today at 200000 places against 135,000 at the end of 2016 and, beyond emotion, I think that figure is very telling. To finance this effort, funding for housing and accompaniment has increased by EUR 1 billion between the last budget of the previous quinquennium and the budget we have just adopted for 2022. We stepped up our efforts during the health crisis by opening more than 40,000 additional accommodation spaces, which remained open at the end of the winter truce 2020-2021. We have thus put an end to the thermometer management of these places, which is a change of historical approach to sheltering. In particular, you draw my attention to the situation in Île-de-France, particularly in Val-de-Marne: I would remind you that, in this department, nearly 8,700 accommodation places are open, compared to 5400 in 2018.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u109	You deleted them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u110	There was no decrease in the number of places in 2020 and I guarantee you that there is no question of returning to the number of places before the health crisis. Of course, we pay the same attention to the other departments of France. Thus, in Seine-Saint-Denis, we decided to open 138 additional places and places for women leaving maternity, in order to meet the most urgent needs. In order to give the sector greater visibility and anticipate its needs, we are proceeding with a qualitative transformation of the accommodation spaces with the Ministry responsible for housing, which maintains the consultation with the associations, in order to lay the foundations for a multi-annual programme of accommodation and housing. I would like to acknowledge the remarkable work done by associations and professionals in human and social conditions that are always difficult. As announced by the Prime Minister at last Friday's conference on the social and medico-social accompaniment trades, social workers in the accommodation and reception facilities for homeless people, as well as the healthcare staff of these structures, will benefit from the extension of the measures of the Segur in respect of remuneration: it is not only a measure of justice and equity, but also a recognition of their commitment to the service of the most precarious accompaniment. Let us look at these positive elements, Mrs. Panot. We all suffer from not being able to go ever further and heal all the wounds in the world, but I believe that the effort we are making in this area is very significant.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u111	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u112	Madam Secretary of State, I assume that I do not have a nuanced statement on this issue. I have resumed an alert issued by the social workers, the very ones to whom you pay tribute and who all say that it is unbearable to have to answer every evening to families that they will not have accommodation. I will read to you one of the sentences of their letter: "We are often told that social workers do not have an obligation of result, but an obligation of means. To date, we have neither the results nor the means. In 2022, we no longer want to hear complicated excuses or explanations for an alarming phenomenon. » When we are the fifth richest country in the world, it is enough to have the political will to make sure that no one has to sleep in the streets, and you know that very well. You have made every effort to suggest that social workers are lying,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u113	Who said that?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u114	... but 1200 places have already been removed in the Val-de-Marne, and others will be: if you don't believe them, you just have to go and question them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u115	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor to put his question, No. 1710, concerning the administrative difficulties associated with applications for building permits.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u116	Unfortunately, obtaining building permits remains a bureaucratic mechanism disconnected from the realities of the land. In my constituency of the Vosges, many people, whether elected or local, face difficulties in urban planning, regardless of the legal regime that applies. If the municipality falls under the regime of the National Town Planning Regulation (NCR) – this is the case for Thiéfosse or the Union, for example – constructions are only allowed in the currently urbanised areas (PAU). As a result, as soon as plans are made to build elsewhere than in the centre of the commune, the situation becomes more complicated and our elected officials are very often confronted with State services with a very restrictive conception of the concept of continuity. These services frequently express a negative opinion, even though the projects will have a positive impact, as is the case with those in my constituency: I am thinking of the construction of a house adapted to the needs of an elderly person, or of a company that would energize a small rural commune. If the municipality reports to an urban planning document such as a local urban planning plan (PLU) or a local inter-municipal urban planning plan (PLUI) as is the case in the municipality of Thilott, rural elected representatives face the same difficulties, but the explanations given are different. It is then the departmental commissions for the preservation of natural, agricultural and forestry spaces (CDPENAF) that can have a more bureaucratic reasoning than adapted to the reality of the field, and applied without real consultation with the local elected representatives. Madam Secretary of State, while the demand for building permits has increased by 19% over the last year, our elected representatives have seen the area of building spaces in their communes severely restricted over the years, often to the benefit of the larger municipalities. What measures do you intend to take to introduce more flexibility and realism in the application of the texts at local level, especially for small rural communes?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u117	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u118	Mr President, you are telling us about the administrative difficulties that would be associated with obtaining the building permit, either as a result of the application of the national urban planning regulation in the municipalities without an urban planning document or as a result of the consultation of the CDPENAF. As far as the UNN is concerned, I would like first of all to remind you that it allows us to build only in urbanised areas, which is the translation of one of the basic principles of urban planning with the aim of limiting diffuse urbanisation – the maze – and preserving natural and agricultural spaces. We all agree on the importance of this obvious issue in terms of urbanisation and the preservation of these areas, which involves encouraging the municipalities to have an urban planning document to organise the use of their land. Urbanized areas have a certain density and the necessary networks, the extension and maintenance of which are costly for the community. This rule of urbanization is old and applied in a uniform and constant way in the national territory. It is known both to the municipalities and to the State services, which, whenever they give a negative opinion, are obliged to justify it. In addition, there are several exceptions to this rule, including amendments to existing buildings or the construction of new agricultural buildings. In order to meet specific needs, the municipality may even use the so-called reasoned deliberation mechanism, which allows a project to be authorised by deliberation of the municipal council when its interest so warrants, in particular in order to avoid a decrease in the communal population. Finally, by drawing up a communal map, a simple and inexpensive document to be drawn up, the municipality can take over the issue of town planning permits. You also underline the role of the CDPENAF. Its opinion can indeed be sought for projects as well as for urban planning documents. The review of a project in CDPENAF allows the project to be reworked and improved, thus avoiding brutal refusals or subsequent litigation. The objective is always to obtain a legally robust and respectful authorisation of agricultural and natural areas. I would point out that, according to the studies carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, three quarters of the opinions of the CDPENAFs are favourable. As you can see, the Government is very attentive to the development of rural areas, which, like urban areas, must be organized in accordance with the territorial strategies put in place by the elected representatives in their urban planning documents. This is precisely what the existing law encourages, while at the same time allowing for derogations when they are necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u119	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u120	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary of State, but the problem lies in the interpretation of the principle of continuous urbanization. It is obvious that in our rural communes, constructions are much more spaced together than in large cities. I have in mind the example of an application for a building permit for a house surrounded on all sides by other houses: the permit was refused on the grounds that there is too much space between the proposed construction and those surrounding it. Obviously, a person in the prefecture has made a very strict interpretation of the principle of continuity of urban planning. Such a situation is not uncommon, and I regret it, because it has very negative consequences for rural areas. People who would like to build in small communes to have children, to run schools and public services, are forced to give up their project in order to go to a big city. This reduces the population of rural areas and contributes to their impoverishment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u121	I call Mrs Karine Lebon to speak on her question, No. 1684, concerning the necessary adaptation of the ELAN law to the Mafate circus.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u122	Madam Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the serious consequences of the ELAN law – on housing, development and digital development – for certain territories in the upper regions of Réunion. The Mafate circus, one of the most emblematic sites in Réunion, is directly threatened by the new provisions in force since 1 January 2022, which make any new construction almost impossible. Located in the heart of the UNESCO World Heritage National Park, Mafate occupies a special place in the history of La Réunion, since it has been the refuge of those who have fled colonial slavery – the browns, as they say at home. Accessible only on foot or by the air, this natural gem is now a high tourist destination with more than 100,000 visitors every year. Managed by the NFB – the National Forestry Board – which grants non-transferable concessions to its 1000 inhabitants, this territory was previously governed by very strict and strictly applied urban planning rules. But the ELAN law has come to push the existing legal arsenal, at the risk of seriously disrupting the pursuit of balanced and environmentally friendly planning – in short, to go against the intended purpose. Indeed, the deletion of the concept of a "new integrated hamlet" in article 42 no longer makes it possible to use a very appropriate urban code tool, which amounts to prohibiting any urbanized area in Mafate. In addition, by updating the "coastal" law with a more drastic framework for constructions in municipalities with maritime access, the ELAN law ignores the topology of the communes of Réunion which extend from the wing of the blades to the top of the mountains, and considerably complicates the lives of the inhabitants of Mafate. All projects are now in jeopardy, whereas due to major landslides it has become essential not only to concentrate housing in the so-called island areas, but also to build and strengthen schools and public service points. I regret that all my initiatives to find a solution to this problem have remained dead letter despite the seriousness of the situation and the concern of the people. That is why, after the vote on the 3DS law – on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action – and following a letter co-signed by my colleagues from La Réunion, I take advantage of this last session of oral questions without debate of the legislature to ask you to put in place a regulatory framework that no longer turns its back on the characteristics of the Mafate circus and allows to reconcile protection and planning, that is to say to envisage the harmonious development of this site.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u123	The Secretary of State for Biodiversity has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u124	Madam Member, you are asking us about the consequences of the ELAN law for the development and construction of the Mafate circus area. This site, which is a remarkable geological formation, has been a UNESCO World Heritage site since 2010 under the name "Pitons, circuses and ramparts of Réunion Island", of which we are very proud. This exceptional landscape and environmental value of the circus deserves of course our full vigilance, and justifies that the construction in this area is particularly framed and limited. We are of course well aware that this site is subject to several legislative provisions that may be a barrier to certain projects. These include the provisions of the Coastal Act and the principle of continuous urbanization, as well as the abolition of urbanization in the form of new hamlets integrated into the environment, introduced by the ELAN Act. However, this abolition is offset by new flexibilities introduced in operational deployment: I am thinking, for example, of the creation of so-called urbanised sectors, which is a useful tool in the case of Mafate circus, because it helps to promote the densification of certain areas and thus improve the supply of housing or the establishment of public services. You are also asking me about the establishment of a suitable regulatory framework, specific to this site. Since the principle of continuous urbanization is, like other provisions of the "coastal" law, enshrined in the law, it is not possible to make any regulatory changes in this area. However, I want to assure you that government services remain mobilized and available to bring their expertise to the communities concerned. Exchanges are thus under way between the services of the Ministry of Housing and the local services to enable the mobilization of the most suitable tools, in particular that of the so-called urbanised sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u125	Mrs Karine Lebon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u126	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, but the arrangements you are referring to will take several months and we can even fear that we will have to wait next year. Yet there is an urgent need, whether it be buildings or the population. I don't think we can ignore it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u127	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor to put his question, No. 1714, concerning the closure of the Maxam Tan plant.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u128	On 17 May 2021 the Maxam Tan plant in Mazingarbe, Pas-de-Calais, closed its doors after being placed in judicial liquidation. Throughout this chronicle of an announced disaster, the State has been shamefully and cruelly absent, abandoning the seventy-two employees of this enterprise, sacrificed on the altar of blind and inhuman globalization. Indeed, since the cessation of activity on 17 June 2020, the Government has not been able to measure this serious situation for employees. Despite the regular alerts of staff representatives and local elected officials, despite my repeated interventions to denounce the actions of the boss-rogue, he did nothing to avoid the planned death of this historic industrial site and the disappearance of jobs, nothing done to guarantee the safety of this site Seveso, nothing done to ensure the employees an optimal reclassification and the highest possible compensation. Last fall, these Maxam Tan elders, betrayed by an unimplemented job safeguard plan, deprived of the promised premiums, were in great distress. After long months of anxiety and uncertainty, they are now engaged with their families on the judicial front. Some legitimately seek redress before the board of Lens's lawyers and denounce dismissals without real and serious cause. On 3 February 2022, during his campaign trip to Pas-de-Calais, the outgoing president was arrested in these terms by the son of a missing minor: "The miners have given, it is time for them to be given back a little." Maxam's employees are waiting for the same recognition and justice. Following my many questions, which remain unanswered, I ask the Government what it expects to do to ensure that these former employees are respected for their dignity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u129	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u130	This is not the first time that you have asked me about the Maxam Tan file, and I will give you, honourable Member, an answer as precise and rapid as the previous times, even if I observe that your questions have arrived long after the difficulties begin for the employees, probably the Workers' Syndrome of the eleventh hour... For my part, I have been mobilised on this issue since October 2020. I met with the employees of this company in December 2020 and have, since then, ensured that regular contacts take place with my close teams. On several occasions, on 7 December 2020, and again on 19 February 2021, I reminded Maxam Tan of his obligations under French law, both with regard to employees and environmental law. I have personally ensured that the practices of this group are transmitted to the prosecutor. I also requested that the Public Prosecutor's Office be informed of Maxam's shortcomings as an employer and legal person operating a high threshold Seveso site. So, on our initiative, the legal proceedings you mention have been initiated. Without waiting for the completion of the plan to safeguard employment, several measures were put in place from the beginning of 2021 to maintain pay at the same level and to promote the rapid reintegration of the persons concerned into the labour market. A support unit for occupational safety and security has been established for six weeks. I have also weighed on several occasions with Maxam and its shareholders so that conditions of dismissal to the extent of what the employees asked for are proposed. These efforts resulted in an envelope of €360,000. As you know, the group released an envelope of 150000 euros after a firm intervention by my firm and my services. On 26 January, under the impetus of the State authorities, the judicial representatives informed the employee representative that they were taking action to recover the outstanding balance of EUR 210000. These are all very concrete effects of a constant action carried out alongside Maxam Tan's employees. I can therefore only regret, Mr President, the demagogic and political position that you have taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u131	Mr Bruno Bilde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u132	With you, Madam Deputy Minister, it's always the big bad blur! I remind you of the fine words spoken by your former colleague Alain Griset, when he answered a question that I asked here, already in December 2020: "It would not be acceptable for Mazingarbe's closure to be organized coldly to increase the market power of certain players, to the detriment of its industrial customers. [...] We are open to the idea of exploring all possible ways and mobilising all the levers, including that of the recovery plan, which provides €35 billion for French industry. This could be done, for example, in the form of repayable advances or direct assistance if a project corresponding to one of the calls for proposals for a recovery plan is proposed, once the other conditions have been confirmed. » Your sacrosanct recovery plan has served nothing, except to make the seventy-two employees of the Mazingarbe site hope vainly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u133	I call Mr Blairy to speak on his question No. 1715 on the French industrial fabric.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u134	The first and second industrial revolutions have made France a great power. Unfortunately, the decline since the coal recession, then textile and metallurgical, has never been stopped! The Hauts-de-France and Grand Est regions were the most affected. In 1975, industrial enterprises employed more than a third of the 25-54 age group in these territories – 39% in Hauts-de-France and 37.4% in the Grand Est region. Forty years later, in 2014, industry's share of regional employment was only 14.9% in the Hauts-de-France region and 17.1% in the Grand Est region. And the fall has continued since 2014. We have a right to question: have successive governments really worried about the fate of French industry? Let me doubt that, especially as the dismantling continues. Alstom, to name but one, was robbed by Emmanuel Macron at General Electric: a gift offered to the Americans and a piece of French know-how ruined and sacrificed! One of the practical repercussions of the continuation of this process is the questioning of our energy independence, which has been undermined by the disastrous will of Brussels and the pressure of the lobbies. France has sacrificed a flagship of its industrial know-how, a flagship that has made its international reputation: nuclear power. The presidents Sarkozy, Hollande and, of course, Macron have constantly dismantled the energy production tool, responding to the desires of profit-loving shareholders, to the detriment of French workers. That's how the Fessenheim power plant was liquidated without warning! In addition, the commissioning of the EPR – European pressurized reactor – in Flamanville is still lagging behind: it is now referred to as 2023. In these troubled times, however, we must be more than ever on the side of industries, which obviously means research and vocational training. The surgically orchestrated dismantling that we are witnessing weakens a whole industry that is in the process of disappearing. Despite these tragic directions taken by our leaders, France has a network of small and medium-sized enterprises that innovate and develop niche know-how at the cutting edge of technology. That is also the French genius, Madam Minister, and it must be defended at all costs. I will cite the example of plastic industry in the Hauts-de-France region, which knows how to compete in areas such as thermoforming. His skills, envied by all the countries of the world, enable him to work with donors from all over Europe and the five continents. What is true about plastics is also true in other areas. A denominator is common to all these companies: their economic model is based on having a train ahead because, to exist and survive in this fierce competition of industry, they have to anticipate technological developments. What is being done to protect these nuggets from French industry today? The answer is in a word: nothing! Training, recruitment assistance, accompanying engineering: the state is to the absent subscribers! Given this overwhelming context, can the Government inform us about its strategy to sustain and develop the French industrial fabric?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u135	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u136	Since 2017, with the President of the Republic and Bruno Le Maire, we have been pursuing a policy of industrial reconquest, which has put an end to thirty years of capitulation. The facts are stubborn: it was this government that stopped the industrial hemorrhage against which our predecessors did nothing. This policy is based on three axes of courageous reforms, which have made it possible to restore competitiveness to the site France: reduction of taxes for companies, reform of the labour code, of apprenticeship, of vocational training, laws on administrative simplification, in particular for the installation of industrial sites in France – laws that you have not voted for, let's stress it in passing. This led to the creation of 1 million jobs across the French territory and to the re-creation of industrial employment in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Let us take the example of Lens, which you know well: the unemployment rate rose from 15% in 2016 to 11% at the end of 2021, even after the biggest crisis of this century. Such a decline had never been seen since 2000. As part of the recovery plan, we have accompanied more than one in three industrial companies. This translates into 782 relocations, decided relocations, in the course of deployment. For Hauts-de-France, 820 decarbonation, modernisation, innovation and relocation projects are supported. Last year, there were twice as many open sites as closed ones, something that had not happened in years. These factories, you see them coming out of the ground on your territory. I will mention the GigaFactory of Douvrin's electric batteries or Ruitz' plans. You're asking me about nuclear policy. The Government's course is very clear: we are reactivating nuclear production. First of all, we are supporting the sector thanks to the 470 million of the recovery plan, which helped to support 42 projects related to subcontracting. Then, again as part of the recovery plan, we are working on tomorrow's nuclear, around the small modular reactors (SMR – Small Modular Reactors), which are a break with the past. Finally, we are implementing a plan to provide competitive low-carbon energy based on nuclear energy efficiency and renewable energy, without which we will not be able to control our decarbonisation targets. The Dunkirk platform, which is not so far from our respective territories, illustrates this with the project of two EPRs in Gravelines, the Verkor plant for the production of electric batteries and the work on decarbonation carried out at ArcelorMittal. These are all aspects of a concrete, controlled industrial policy that creates employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u137	Mr Sébastien Chenu has the floor to put his question, No. 1711, on purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u138	It is on behalf of all those thousands of French people affected by your political choices that I alert you to the surge in prices, which weighs heavily on the purchasing power of the French. After a year of 2021 marked by a general rise in prices, 2022 does not look particularly reassuring for the portfolio of our fellow citizens. In February 2022, we had to experience a record rise in toll prices, a 4% increase in electricity – a sector for which the projections are particularly worrying – while, since the beginning of the year, food prices have risen by 1.5%, an increase which, according to all analysts, is not close to stopping. So, of course, you made a political choice, to take out the cheque book during the election campaign. For our part, we prefer sustainable solutions. I will quote concrete cases that show what the life of the French really is, unlike the averages, the statistics that you put forward. I would like to know what I have to answer to this retired member of my constituency, in Bouchain, who, with 900 euros a month, has to choose between heating and feeding. I would like to know what I need to do with this home help in Trith-Saint-Léger, who, in five years of presidency Macron, saw his fuel go from 58 to 76 euros. I would also like to know what I need to answer to this inhabitant of Denain, a commune among the poorest in France, who must, for the first time, pay 440 euros of tax for the removal of household waste. Why? Because with the removal of the housing tax, you have drained the tax resources of the communities, which are causing new taxes to be created and property taxes to be increased. When will you finally consider, as Marine Le Pen proposes, that energies are essential goods? When will you decide to adopt lasting solutions, i.e. to lower the VAT on energy by fixing it at 5.5%? This would help relieve the working France, the working France, the working France, who would like to work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u139	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u140	Mr President, first of all let me ask you whether, in the end, you are not happy with the inflation you are talking about because, rather than making serious proposals, you are exploiting the difficulties of the inhabitants of your territory by pure political cynicism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u141	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u142	When you propose to reduce VAT on electricity from 20% to 5.5%, do you say that this measure would only apply to individuals and would not apply in any way to businesses and local authorities? Of course not! Did you specify that the personal bill would then increase by 19%? No more! The Government does not share this cynicism. Our compass consists of acting first and foremost for the French. That is why we have put in place a tariff shield that applies to all French, local authorities and businesses. It benefits everyone and helps to limit the rise in the price of electricity to 4% for households. That is also why we have mobilised EUR 15 billion to protect the French from price increases. You were right to mention this very worrying subject. I, too, am on the ground, and I hear French concerns about purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u143	You're in the government!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u144	For them, we propose an exceptional energy check of 100 euros, intended for 5.8 million households who had already received an energy check of an average amount of 150 euros in April 2021. For them, we have created an inflation allowance of EUR 100. It is now distributed, because it is now that this problem arises, and it benefits 38 million French people earning less than 2000 euros. For them, for those who use their vehicle to get to their workplace, such as the one you mentioned in your question, we have increased the kilometric allowance. These are emergency devices that the French need immediately.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u145	Since 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u146	We assume this policy all the more so since the beginning of the quinquennium, we have kept on ensuring that unemployment decreases and that the French live better off their work. This is probably the best answer to be given in favour of purchasing power. We have reduced taxes by 52 billion euros, 26 billion of which for households. I would point out that we have removed the housing tax, and that the reduction in income tax by 5 billion – which is not nothing – mainly benefits the middle classes, those who get up early, every morning, to go to work. Who'd done it before? We have created one million jobs and brought the unemployment rate down to its lowest level in 15 years. Who'd done it before? We have increased the activity premium so that an employee at the SMIC, earning 1269 euros, can now benefit from an income of 1500 euros per month. Who'd done it before? I could also quote the rest of the charge zero benefiting 10 million French, when they need glasses, a dental operation or audioprosthetics. I could mention the pass culture the pass'sport, the revalorisation of the minimum old age of 100 euros per month for a single person or the increase of the allowance for disabled adults. In a context of inflation, we are listening to the French and we are acting. The best answer we can provide over time, since you are asking me about this, is to work to ensure that full employment is truly effective. This objective appeared unattainable five years ago; It is now well on its way to being reached.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u147	Mr Sebastien Chenu has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u148	I, Madam Deputy Minister, do not want to argue, but your tone is controversial and injuring for the people who suffer what I have spoken of. I give you a new example: in my constituency in Trith-Saint-Léger, LME had to lower its production when the price of electricity increased. This is concrete, when your statistics have nothing to do with the French life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u149	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor to put her question, No 1699, on the price of raw materials.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u150	Higher energy prices, higher raw materials prices, higher fuel prices, higher packaging prices... I stop there, because this list would still be long. It affects all sectors of activity. The feed for our pets shows an increase of more than 200 euros per tonne in one year. Our farmers are the victims of a three-fold increase in fertilizer prices, and the artisans in my territory, like all those in the national territory, are facing an average increase in material prices of over 18%. For our syrup manufacturers, the price of steel cans increased by an average of 50 per cent in 2021, glass by 15 per cent and plastic by 25 per cent, while sugar prices rose by an average of 40 per cent. These widespread and historical increases are worrying not only the French, but also our businesses and our communes. Companies, which have been facing the health crisis for the past two years, now face a completely new situation. In addition to these price increases, there is a shortage of certain materials and products, which has serious consequences and can lead to the suspension of their activities, the abandonment of construction sites, the postponement of the launch of new products or the extension of delivery times. These cumulative difficulties have cascading effects and pose serious problems for our companies, which have absolutely no visibility in the coming months. As a result of the unprecedented increase in the cost of agricultural and non-agricultural raw materials, many contracts become obsolete and are challenged by customers and suppliers. In an attempt to save their business, some companies have no choice but to gnome on their profits or review their estimates, but these are temporary solutions. How long can they do that? Very quickly, inevitably, our companies will have to postpone increases on customers, that is, on the purchasing power of the French. Opinions are unanimous: the current situation is expected to last at least until 2023, when production chains return to their pre-crisis pace. Today there is a feeling of ras-le-bol, shared by all the French and business leaders of the country. They expect concrete measures to support economic recovery. We hear your permanent speech of self-satisfaction,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u151	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u152	... but what concrete measures do you intend to take to really help and support our companies, in order to support economic recovery while protecting French industrial independence?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u153	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u154	You were right to stress the extraordinarily difficult context in which our companies are working today. It is not specific to France: we find these difficulties in all European countries, all over the world. France has taken steps to respond; So may I say that, if we look at each other, we are sorry, but when we compare ourselves, we can consider that we are pulling our pin from the game. This is perhaps the meaning of our growth rebound – 8% in 2021 – and of the fact that we are the first European country to have regained its pre-crisis level of activity. I want to thank the entrepreneurs and all those who fight every day in the territory to ensure that we maintain our level of activity, by continuing to work despite the extraordinary conditions we know. What steps have we taken? First of all, there are emergency measures, which have allowed our economy not to collapse. The "whatever it costs" is above all the protection of our jobs and our work tools. It is the solidarity fund, the State-guaranteed loan, and the abolition or spread of social security charges for certain companies. Then there were the measures to accompany the companies' rebound and to enable them to continue to invest. I mentioned earlier the recovery plan: one in three industrial companies benefited from it. We must also mention the France 2030 investment plan, which will enable us to accompany the industrial sectors of the future – it is very concrete, it is now, it is money that is arriving at their bank account. Finally, I want to mention the reduction in production taxes. Many companies say to me: "Happily, you've reduced these taxes, they're pretty much the increase in our energy spending. It's kind of a trick in history, but it works, and businesses can continue to produce. Some other measures are very recent. We got to put 20 terawatthours at the disposal of the French at the price of 46 euros per megawatthour. This is once again very concrete and it helps to avoid the slowdown or closure of a number of companies – the subject was mentioned in a previous question – and to protect 45,000 jobs. We have also announced measures to promote the cash flow of businesses. The State-guaranteed loan is extended from the end of December 2021 to the end of June 2022. A loan for industry, made by BPIFrance – Banque publique d'investissement –, designed to finance working capital needs at this very particular moment, will help to support companies in the sector, for a total amount of 700 million euros. The arrangements for repayable advances and soft loans are extended until 30 June 2022 – so we went as far as the EU's temporary framework for state aid allowed. The conditions for granting social and tax tax spreads, which French companies have already benefited from during the health crisis, are also relaxed. We are acting very concretely,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u155	And with a lot of self-satisfaction!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u156	...which may explain why the number of business failures in our country is still so low.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u157	Mrs Anne-Laure Blin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u158	I was right to mention your self-satisfaction exercises by asking my question: you again gave yourself to one of them. You absolutely don't answer. You talk about the measures taken during the health crisis; Of which act. However, today, in companies, the increase in raw materials is very real. Nor do you say anything about the recruitment difficulties our companies face. Yet there is only one real measure to be taken: to value the work and merit of our fellow citizens who work and operate French companies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u159	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u160	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor to raise her question, No. 1691, concerning Internet access cuts in Val-d'Oise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u161	Many of the inhabitants of my territory of Val d'Oise, in the communes of Louvres, Putieux-en-France, Marly-la-Ville and many others, have to deal with heavy and repeated breakdowns, which undermine the proper functioning of the digital network and cause unexpected cuts – I weigh my words – of access to the Internet by fiber optics. However, Val-d'Oise is a department known for being one of the first to connect more than 90% of its territory to the fibre optic network. These failures would be due to insufficient customer connection to demand, disconnection of fibre optic cables during technical interventions by operators or their suppliers, and also to sabotage and vandalism facilitated by the low security of fibre optic cabinets. Schematically, this means that one operator takes care of your installation but another, coming the next day, disconnects you in favor of his client. I've lived it: it's pretty heavy. In addition, recovery requests are the subject of delays in the intervention of often very long technicians – when they end up coming – while we know how important a quality connection is nowadays in the lives of our fellow citizens: to train, to work, to access public services, and even, from now on, to take care of themselves in teleconsultation or, as we have seen during confinement, to keep in touch with relatives who live far away. What are our room for manoeuvre with operators to review the execution of the contracts that bind them to the departments, in particular to strengthen their obligations to secure equipment and to engage in appropriate and rapid solutions to these breakdowns that create inconvenience for our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u162	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u163	There are numerous recurring quality problems and malfunctions that occur when subscribers connect to fibre optics. While they can be partly explained by the tremendous acceleration in the number of final connections – 5.8 million in 2020, compared to 4.8 million in 2019 – which is essential to make up for the delay unfortunately taken under the previous quinquennats, these malfunctions are not acceptable. The Government is paying particular attention to the quality of these networks, which, in addition to providing Internet access to the French, are strategic and critical assets for our territories. As early as October 2020, the Government informed all stakeholders that the current connection system could not continue without a profound change in the control of subcontracting chains, ensuring a higher level of quality. Several projects have been launched under the aegis of ARCEP – the Authority for the regulation of electronic communications, postal services and the distribution of the press – which I thank. Cédric O, Secretary of State for Digital Transition and Electronic Communications, follows all this carefully. First, subcontracts are being developed, with better control of infrastructure operators and the application of significant financial penalties in the event of deterioration. Secondly, the control of subcontractor cascades was improved to better determine the responsibility of the various actors. Finally, detailed reports of the interventions of the subcontractors are provided to ensure that there is no degradation, with photos taken before and after their passage. Work is also being done to ensure that indicators are put in place to target identified problems and monitor their evolution. All these measures must lead to an improvement in the situation and to the restoration of an acceptable level of quality of service in the coming months. If this is not the case, other more stringent levers can be mobilised. Finally, I would point out that the departments are free to enter into discussions with the operators to renegotiate the contracts which bind each other, in accordance with the traditional contractual negotiation procedure, in this case in accordance with the legal framework applicable to public contracts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u164	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u165	Madam Minister-in-Office, the situation is all the more complicated because it is difficult to put everyone around the table, when it is clear that there is not only one responsible person but many actors, all of whom need to be mobilised. All I'm talking about is Île-de-France, but we've been able everywhere to see these bereaved cabinets, letting those sons hang on which our fellow citizens depend more and more when they telework, shop online or want to communicate with their loved ones. You have announced several measures; It is essential to move forward, because they are moving in the right direction. We must solve these problems of internet connection, which weigh on our citizens on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u166	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to put his question, No. 1700, concerning the staffing of the police station in Saint-Quentin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u167	My question, Madam Deputy Minister for Citizenship, was to your appropriate minister, but I have no doubt that you will be able to answer and commit yourself on his behalf, as I would have liked him to do directly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u168	Thank you, though.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u169	A few days ago, the Ministry of the Interior assigned thirteen police officers to the police station in Château-Thierry, following the assignment of five other officials last September, bringing the police station's strength to fifty-six. That's very good. But, 100 kilometres from there, in Saint-Quentin, in the same department, we have been waiting for more than five years, five years that we are constantly alerting successive interior ministers to benefit from reinforcements. Indeed, while the theoretical number of police officers at the Saint-Quentin police station has not changed, we note on the ground a decrease in the actual number, which is logically due to sick stops, retirements, time-saving leave, etc. To compensate and in order to ensure their patrols, the police officers of the Saint-Quentin police station are obliged to mix the services: it is thus very common that a member of the rescue police find himself with a member of the investigation team or even of the canine unit... and fortunately that we can count on the reservists! The shortage of staff added the health crisis: in December 2021, 25 per cent of the investigation staff were on sick leave and only one patrol was on duty for the New Year instead of two. To alert the minister, the police officers of Saint-Quentin, on 24 December, expressed their concern and dismay at the police station. At their side, Mayor Frédérique Macarez and I once again ask for the reinforcement of a dozen additional officials for this police station. While the police station in Château-Thierry has 56 officials for an electoral district of 15,000 inhabitants, we have only 100 for 60000 inhabitants, whereas we should have more than 200! We do not ask so much, Madam Deputy Minister, but it is urgent and essential to increase the number of members of the Saint-Quentin police station. The current situation puts pressure on the teams and weakens the security of citizens. The people of our territory want quick answers and concrete actions. Police can't wait any longer. Can you commit yourself to an increase, from this year onwards, in the staffing of the Saint-Quentin police station?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u170	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u171	In terms of security, the expectations of the French are legitimate, you are right, and you know that the Government has made this a priority by mobilizing all the levers, from prevention to repression. This policy is based on massive and measurable means, namely an overall increase in police and gendarmerie appropriations of almost €3 billion since the beginning of the quinquennium. With regard to the Saint-Quentin Public Security District, I recall that it has an operational staff of 83 officers and peacekeepers, has 12 deputy police officers and can, whenever necessary, rely on the resources of the departmental Directorate of Public Security, whose operational strength has increased from 285 officers and guards at the end of 2016 to 308 today. The issue of presence on the public road and, more broadly, on the ground, where crime is highest, is our priority. In Saint-Quentin, the principle is clear: two emergency police units must be operational 24 hours a day. Unfortunately, this is not always the case when some staff members are absent because of legitimate rest or leave, or for other reasons, including retirement. In some cases, crews from the community safety group and bikers are added in the daytime. With regard to the light canine unit, its current strength sometimes leads, it is true, to the presence of a single official because of precisely identified absenteeism concerns. The cynotechnician then joins the only police rescue patrol, which consists of three officers, or constitutes a second patrol with a police officer holding the said police. Studies are under way on housing endowments and staffing enhancements in Saint-Quentin. I would add that it is quite normal for departmental security officers to be solicited, not to supplement or strengthen the public highway crews, but to ensure the immediate appearances, appearances and transfers to a prison. Finally, the Ministry of the Interior's next major policy and programming act, if supported by Parliament, will continue to transform and strengthen our security policy in order to better adapt it to the challenges of 2030.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u172	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u173	I thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for this precise answer, but I already knew the content of this note with regard to staffing. We need clear commitments, that was the subject of my question. I have retained that studies are under way on real estate and staffing. That is very good, but above all we want a quick response to a situation that is becoming tense and increasingly complex. I would have liked your response to show more commitment in this regard. I remember texting with your appropriate minister, who confirmed the stability of the workforce since 2017 and admitted that this was a problem. I invite you, like him, to come and see on the ground the difficulties faced by the women and men of this police station.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u174	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor to raise her question, No. 1716, concerning the anti-criminality brigade in the North.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u175	My question concerns the mobilization of anti-criminality brigade teams – LAC – on the coast, which causes understaffing situations in some northern police divisions. The union Unit SGP-police Force travailleur brought to the knowledge of the mayors of the metropolis the weekly movement of police personnel from Roubaix, Tourcoing and Lille to the coast. I fully understand that the migration crisis can reorient needs, but this mechanism has the consequence of reducing the police presence on the ground, especially at night. For example, in Roubaix, from midnight, rescue police units frequently find themselves without any LAC support force. This situation is all the more critical in view of the fact that crime in sensitive neighbourhoods requires the support of the specific skills of the brigade, which are complementary to those of uniformed police officers. In less sensitive municipalities, this situation overshadows the municipal police, although they do not always have the prerogatives to act fully. This shortage of staff therefore poses a real risk to public safety. The unions inform us that the participation of the LAC of Roubaix in the operations on the coast was announced as temporary and expected to cease during the winter period. At present, however, its officers would continue to be regularly mobilized. In this context, the recruitment of additional police officers at LAC would allow for better coverage of the territory, without preventing the deployment of reinforcements on the coast. LAC cannot be an adjustment variable to the detriment of safety. How does the Minister of the Interior intend to ensure the continued presence of anti-criminality brigades throughout the northern part of the country and what additional means does he intend to implement to remedy this deficiency?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u176	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u177	It was true that the Government was pursuing an effective, balanced and coherent immigration policy. In the preamble, I would like to commend the professionalism and commitment of all those police officers who work under often difficult conditions – as you know, Madam Member – alongside the actors on the ground, not only the various government departments but also the local elected representatives and associations. However, I would like to reassure you that the fight against illegal immigration cannot be carried out to the detriment of the very strong and legitimate expectations of our fellow citizens and local elected officials in terms of security. I come to the point that you raise, namely the employment of the departments of the Department of Public Security (DDSP) of the North, which is the responsibility of the Roubaix division, including the 25 police officers who make up its LAC. Since September 2021, this Directorate has sent 634 crews of all kinds, including BACs, to Dunkirk, as part of the fight against illegal immigration, for a total of 11379 hours of civil service; The Roubaix division took part in this effort to the tune of 5 per cent, either 25 crews or 574 civil servants. In January 2022, DDSP sent 129 reinforcement crews to Dunkirk, representing a total of 2362 staff hours, with the Roubaix division contributing 2.96% of the personnel thus mobilized. As you can see, Madam Member of Parliament: the Roubaix Police Division, which has an operational staff of nearly 400 police officers and deputy police officers, has not been overly involved. I also think it useful to point out that, in the metropolitan police district of Lille, the LACs, like the rescue police crews, are intended to deploy between the four divisions, in order to best respond to missions or to carry out certain tasks collectively. These units are therefore not exclusively attached to a single territory. In Roubaix, throughout the city of Lille, as everywhere in France, our fellow citizens can anyway count on the mobilization of the police.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u178	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor to raise her question, No. 1707, concerning the Court of Justice of Caen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u179	Recently, I was relaying to the Minister of Justice the concerns of caregivers about the means provided for psychiatric care in the future prison in Caen. It seems that, unfortunately, the adequacy of means and the number of detainees has not been anticipated. However, the new prison and the future accompanying structure towards exit will lead to almost doubling of the number of staff, whose monitoring, taking into account the prisons in Caen, Argentan and Condé-sur-Sarthe, cannot be carried out by the five judges and the five clerks in office: at least two judges applying sentences and three to four additional clerks would be required. While the Ministry has taken the new needs into account by providing for a doubling of prison officers – and that is good – it is also necessary to bring the judicial staff in charge of follow-up into line with the number of detainees. However, to my knowledge, no additional arrivals are foreseen, whereas it is mathematically impossible to provide the public service of justice with the existing staff. Indeed, the number of additional detainees will be 367, while there are already 1176 persons to be followed in a closed environment and 4100 in an open environment, all for 5 judges and 5 clerks, not to mention the follow-up of heavily sentenced persons, detained in Caen, Argentan or Condé-sur-Sarthe I would also like to know what additional resources the Government intends to allocate to the Court in Caen in view of the significant changes in its staffing. The concern in this regard is all the more acute as resources are already lacking in other areas: a fifth juvenile judge, for example, would be absolutely necessary for the management of the 600 cases under way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u180	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u181	The keeper of the seals, Mr Dupond-Moretti, retained by other obligations, instructed me to answer on his behalf to your question concerning the number of magistrates at the Court of Justice in Caen. First of all, I think it is important to recall that, since the beginning of this quinquennium, 698 additional magistrates have come to court, that the historic threshold of 9,000 magistrates has been reached in 2020 and that 870 additional clerks have also increased the number. If you add the recruitment of 2000 contract workers in the context of the implementation of community justice, you must quickly reach the following conclusion: there have never been so many staff in the courts, and the Government has done a great deal in this regard since 2017; It's mathematical. However, I am aware that much remains to be done. This is why the next promotion of magistrate students will be the biggest promotion in history, with nearly 460 magistrate students. In addition, the keeper of the seals wanted to perpetuate 1414 jobs of contract workers, recruited under the community justice system. With regard to the Court of Justice in Caen and the number of judges in the seat, I would like to inform you that it is now thirty-six judges in the seat of the court. There were only thirty-three in 2017. It is therefore a considerable increase in the number of judges at the seat of the court. Both the headquarters and the public prosecutor's office are currently fully staffed and will be fully staffed by 1 September 2022, following the next annual movement of magistrates. Also requested was the creation of an additional post of enforcement judge, due to the forthcoming delivery, at the end of 2022, of the prison in Caen. At this stage, activity data do not appear to justify the establishment of new judges, including the enforcement of sentences. However, we will continue to pay close attention to the consequences of the delivery of the new prison centre on the enforcement service. I will also tell you, in conclusion, that the keeper of seals pays particular attention to the overall situation of the Court of Appeal in Caen. He recalls that the number of judges made available to Mr. the first president of the Court of Appeal in Caen and Mr. the Attorney-General of the Court of Appeal, who currently have eight magistrates at the seat and three magistrates at the prosecutor's office, enables them to support the Court of Justice in Caen where appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u182	The floor is open to Mr. Jean-Jacques Ferrara, to put his question, No. 1701, concerning the acquisition of military land by the community of agglomeration of the Ajaccio Country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u183	In 2018, the community of agglomeration of the Ajaccio Country (CAPA) validated its urban displacement plan (PDU). Three years of revisions, studies, projects and consultations in order to improve the situation in the city-centre Ajaccio. Among the actions planned in this PDU is the realization of an urban transporter, whose feasibility has been studied since 2017, indispensable link to relieve congestion the two main axes and allow access to the new dedicated hospital structure of South Corsica. The State selected this project last December as a major strategic project funded under the transformation and investment plan for Corsica (PTIC). As studies and expertise proved to be very favourable, a market for design-realization-operation-maintenance was launched in order to select a group of suppliers specialized in this type of project. It is now in the allocation phase. To make this great project possible for the regional capital of the island, the community of agglomeration of the Ajaccio Country has undertaken a process of acquiring a military land unused for several decades, initially intended for the storage of hydrocarbons of the national navy. The acquisition of this land is not possible until clearance or securing of the buried tanks is arbitrated and carried out, in order to remove the classification as a classified facility for the protection of the environment, which, as it is, strikes this land. However, the community of agglomeration was granted an agreement in principle with a temporary occupation permit giving it access to the land to install, as a first step, a city entrance disincentive car park and the possibility of starting the initial re-naturalization of the site aimed at eliminating the risk of flooding. This seven-hectare land is also intended to create an urban park of full nature, which the city really needs. Indeed, it benefits from a high quality fauna and flora, preserved for many years and bringing together many endemic species and species. The status of the project, the critical situation related to the saturation of the roads, the imminent commissioning of the new hospital specify the urgency of the successful completion of this dossier. That is why, Madam Minister, I would like to know whether a rapid mobilisation of the specialized services in charge of this project could be envisaged as soon as possible, in order to allow the acceleration of this essential acquisition for the city of Ajaccio and its future?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u184	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u185	I will reply on behalf of the Minister of Armed Forces, who has other obligations, but I am pleased to answer a question about Ajaccio for my last oral question without debate in this Parliament. The community of agglomeration of the Ajaccio Country informed the Ministry of Armed Forces on July 3, 2017, of its interest in the former St.Joseph Oil Park, located in Ajaccio, for an acquisition. The project led by the community of agglomeration aims to develop a multimodal hub on this unused military site that will enable it to achieve the objectives of its urban displacement plan. In an effort to support the projects of the local authorities, the Ministry of Armed Forces has agreed to divest the site. To this end, an agreement was signed on 22 July 2020 to determine the conditions for the disposal of the site, following the necessary studies and authorizations. Indeed, it is a site with a number of constraints that involve overcoming particular technical difficulties. For example, disposal involves the final shutdown of a classified facility for the protection of the environment, which consists of four buried reservoirs of very large dimensions. The technical arrangements for the safety of these tanks are being defined with a view to disposal. Similarly, in 2022 the Ministry of Armed Forces was required to conduct further investigations to determine the treatment of the polluted land identified in the lower part of the site. If the results of the studies are favourable, the transfer will be made possible by 2024. In the meantime, the necessary development work can certainly be anticipated. In particular, the installation of the infrastructure linked to cable transport, in particular the towers, will be made possible by making available the necessary land fractions, in correlation with the schedule of works envisaged and communicated by the agglomeration. In any event, the Minister of the Armed Forces is following this file closely and has already granted facilities that allow the community to intervene in advance on the site and to use a portion of it for parking purposes. This will make it possible to prepare the conversion of this site under the best conditions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u186	Mr Jean-Jacques Ferrara has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u187	Thank you, Madam Minister. I understand the absence of the minister of armies, as well as your commitment to Ajaccio. I hope that the minister will carefully follow this crucial issue for Ajaccio, hoping that the deadlines will be shortened. I am aware that the minister has already made available some of the land, which makes it possible to start implementing the project, especially on the lower part of the land.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u188	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor to raise her question, No. 1698, concerning weekly rest during harvests and harvests.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u189	This question was initially addressed to the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Labour. Thank you for your presence, Minister. I would like to ask you about the derogation from the maximum weekly working time during harvests and harvests, and to tell you all the concerns of the wine growers, and more broadly those of farmers and cooperatives, in the face of the circular of 25 November last, which calls into question the derogations from the maximum weekly working time requested each year by these agricultural and wine-growing organisations. Each year, the Regional Directorate of Economy, Employment, Labour and Solidarity (DREETS) is asked for these derogations, which are increasingly difficult to obtain. Most recently, according to a note from the Directorate of Labour at the DREETS, the directive has been given to reduce the ceilings granted so far, by setting the limit at 60 hours per week against 72 hours at present, on the grounds of a desire for national harmonisation, on the one hand, and a reconciliation between the provisions of the Rural Code and those of the Labour Code applied by the DREETS, on the other hand. Prefects in agricultural areas, such as the Marne, have always been able to adapt to the needs and constraints of working in the agricultural and wine sectors. It is for this reason that they issue derogations relating to the maximum weekly working time during harvest periods. The Government's desire to harmonize the rural code and the labour code therefore does not seem to have any justification, other than to make the administrative millet more complex. You will understand, Madam Minister, that these provisions are very badly perceived by the channels, which do not understand why these derogations should be reconsidered. If these exist, they meet a need due to the specific nature of these sectors of activity. These derogations are really essential. In Champagne, at the time of harvests and harvests, the practice aims to suspend workers' weekly rest to allow for continuous work of 12 days. There are, and you know, many technical constraints, to which we add the exceptional need for labour, during very specific periods. I remind you that the harvest in Champagne lasts for a maximum of 15 days. This is why it is vital to make use of certain arrangements in the organisation of work, in this case to maintain the use of this limit of 72 hours. Delays can take on worrying proportions and have serious consequences for the quality of the harvest. To seek at all costs to standardize the rules of the primary sector by basing them on the rules of the tertiary sector seems, on the one hand, inappropriate to the specificities of the work in our territories and, on the other hand, opposes the principle of differentiation that your Government put forward when adopting your new law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as the 3DS law. In 2015, the social partners in the sector agreed unanimously, on the recommendation of the administration, to define a long-term framework for the implementation of these derogations. By denying these agreements, you are jeopardizing sectors of activity that already have difficulty adapting to climate change. The Head of State and the Government speak of "the need for proximity, the need for dialogue as close as possible to the actors on the ground". You said "want to adapt administrative and legal standards to the realities on the ground." It is still time to make these comments concrete by satisfying the demand of the channels to maintain these derogations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u190	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u191	Wine-growers and farmers must be able to adjust their working hours at certain times of the year, particularly during harvests, during which the need for labour is increased. However, the Labour Inspectorate considers that harvests alone do not constitute exceptional circumstances – I insist on the word "exceptional" – which could legally justify the use of the suspension of weekly rest. Indeed, if a derogation is requested each year, then it does not, logically, constitute an exceptional or unpredictable request. Madam Member, I can reassure you, however. The current regulations provide a great deal of flexibility for wine growers to adapt their working hours to the pace of harvest. Indeed, the rural and maritime fishing code already allows them to derogate from Sunday rest. Thus, over two weeks, a winemaker may be able to work up to twelve consecutive days if he takes his rest on Monday of the first week and Sunday of the following week. On the other hand, wine growers may request a derogation from the maximum daily and weekly periods: the daily duration may be increased to 12 hours and the weekly duration to 60 hours or even 72 hours. Our right allows the wine industry to adjust the working hours at the rate of harvest. However, it is not desirable, for the health of an employee, to suspend the weekly rest after he has worked in the vineyards 132 hours for twelve consecutive days. This is an essential occupational health issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u192	Mrs Valérie Beauvais has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u193	Thank you for that clarification. However, our territories have specific features. In Alsace, harvests last longer but, in Champagne, they are reduced to fifteen days. This is the very will of these sectors but also of their employees, who wish to make their working time at once, over ten to fifteen days of harvest. Working in the vineyards is not a regular job. Hence this demand of many employees in these territories.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u194	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor to put his question, No. 1712, concerning the deconjugalisation of the allowance for adults with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u195	I would like to ask you about a subject that has been dear to me for many months, many years by many associations: deconjugation of the allowance for disabled adults (AAH). Currently, the AAH amount is calculated on the basis of the couple's resources. This makes the income of the person with a disability dependent on the income of the spouse. It's unbearable. On many occasions, the debate to individualise this benefit has taken place in this House, leading to the rejection of the majority, in total contradiction with the obligation and the will to give persons with disabilities the opportunity to live in dignity. The cultural revolution is not taking place, it is the choice of this Government. People with disabilities in my constituency, however, bear witness to what reality is: "We do not marry for money, but for love. "It infantiles us and invisibilizes us. "I've been wiped out, I'm completely dependent on my husband. "If I am a victim of domestic violence, how will I do financially if I leave my spouse? » These people are victims of your renunciation, of your refusal to see the realization of a real right to autonomy, to emancipation. This refusal is incomprehensible to individuals and their families. The AAH is not a social minimum like the others, it is intended simply to compensate for the difficulty or impossibility of working and having access to the labour market. This decision is all the more incomprehensible given the fact that the Government has for several weeks, in a pre-electoral context, shown its political voluntarism in terms of autonomy and increased purchasing power, in a context of inflation and insecurity that we all know. To date, the Government has chosen marital solidarity, financial submission and a patriarchal vision of the couple, to the detriment of the autonomy and dignity of persons with disabilities. But I'm convinced it's not too late. Madam Minister Delegate, what measures will the Government finally take to recognise the specificities of the AAH and its beneficiaries and, thus, to amend its rules of calculation for more inclusion and social justice?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u196	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u197	Our country spends nearly €51.7 billion annually on disability policies, an unprecedented increase of 17% since 2017. This increase places priority on the purchasing power of persons with disabilities, thanks, in particular, to the two successive waves of revalorisation: between 2017 and 2021, the amount of the AAH was revalued to bring it to 904 euros, i.e. an additional 100 euros per month. This is an increase that has benefited more than 1.2 million of our citizens; That's 11% more purchasing power. But we wanted to go further, within the framework of the 2022 Finance Act, by reforming the method of calculating the AAH, to make it simpler and fairer. This is an operational reform that allows 140,000 households to benefit immediately from an average increase of 110 to 120 euros per month to increase their purchasing power. I would like to remind you that this new method of calculation makes absolutely no losers. From now on, all couples without an activity and whose spouse earns the SMIC will receive the AAH at a full rate, i.e. €904 per month. It is therefore a total of EUR 12 billion that will be spent by the State in 2022 on the AAH, to help people with the smallest disabilities; 25 % more in five years, resulting in an annual investment of 2.4 billion euros for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u198	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u199	Madam Minister-in-Office, I hear and agree with the fact that national solidarity is contributing to the financing of policies for people with disabilities. You talked about improvement, upgrading, but the initial problem is still the same: we explain to people with disabilities that they will be financially dependent on their spouse or spouse, because the income of the spouse or spouse is taken into account in determining the amount of the HFA. Once again, the testimony is eloquent: I am thinking of this woman who explains that, being in a situation of 80% disability, she is not only physically dependent, but also financially dependent on her spouse, because the amount of her HFA decreases because of the latter's income. The various associations, the Defender of Rights, the National Council for Human Rights, and even the UN are calling on France to change its position and deconjugalize the AAH. Even with the revalorisations that have been made, it is still 40% of the beneficiaries of the AAH who do not benefit at full rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u200	Mrs Emilie Cariou, speaking on her question No. 1713 on the schooling of children with disabilities in Belgium.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u201	In the preamble, I would like to make it clear that in four years this is the second time that I have asked a question about children with disabilities in Belgium and, twice, Mrs Cluzel was absent and was unable to report on her policy, which I regret. For more than seven months, nearly eighty families in the Greater East region – including twenty-five Meusian families – have been in disarray at the failure to renew the Franco-Belgian Convention allowing them to enrol their children with disabilities in Belgian specialized institutions. Under the Convention, a quota of specific places was reserved for French children. This Franco-Belgian agreement enabled transport, boarding and catering to be taken over. This contract was therefore essential for these families, who cannot decently bear all the costs of schooling abroad. The Convention ended on 31 December 2021, for lack of agreement between the French State, represented by the Regional Health Agency (ARS) of Hauts-de-France, and the Wallonie Brussels education federation. As a result of our mobilization with parents to maintain the education of these children, exceptional funding was provided by the French government. Unfortunately, this solution is only temporary, and a case-by-case study of the situation of each family has begun, but it has to be noted that there is still a lack of clarity about the beginning of September next year. Let us be realistic: when a family decides to enrol its child beyond our borders, with all that this implies, it is good that the solutions existing on French territory are not sufficient. These families already know all the structures existing in France, be it the medical-educational institutes (IME) or the ULIS classes – Localized units for school inclusion – of national education. The type of accompaniment that is proposed is simply not appropriate, largely because of the lack of resources allocated to disability policy in our country. Removing these children from the school in which they attend school would be a matter of abuse. Why? Because they have been in school there for years, they have found balance, serenity and development, and these only motives should guide our action to prevent them from breaking their paths. As a result, more than eighty families, who had been able to find a solution that would enable their children to follow a suitable educational path, were unable to provide satisfactory services in our territory. This event thus reflects the lack of a satisfactory reception offer for the children of the Republic, but also the difference in approach between France and Belgium in the accompaniment of disability. On Wednesday, 2 February, the Secretary of State for Child Protection, Adrien Taquet, stated, in questions to the Government in the Senate, that solutions would be built with and for families, and that derogatory funding could be proposed if they wished to continue their children's education in Belgium. Therefore, my question is as follows: pending new solutions in the Meusian territory and in the Far East, does the Government intend, yes or no, to extend the funding beyond June 2022, to enable these children to complete their schooling in this institution – as is ardently required by a large number of families involved – and in what manner?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u202	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u203	Madam Member, if I am to replace my colleague Sophie Cluzel this morning, it is because she has an imperative commitment, believe it. You refer to the convention between the ARS of Hauts-de-France and the Belgian institutions that accompany French children. This convention was introduced seven years ago, in order to strengthen our ties with these institutions and to ensure the quality of the accompaniments. Effective, these conventions have been available in the adult sector for a year now. The situation you are referring to is that of the Saint-Mard school; it is the only establishment to be subject to the Wallonia-Brussels agreement Education, the equivalent of national education in this region. As you recalled, at the end of October, this institution indicated to us its wish to put an end to the agreement by 31 December 2021. We immediately mobilised, in connection with the ARS Grand Est, the association AEIM-Adapei 54 to take on the financing as a derogation, pay the costs directly to the school Saint-Mard and organize the transports. The objective was twofold: to ensure the continuity of schooling and not to induce any remaining burden on families. In addition, AEIM-Adapei 54 has undertaken a "go-to" approach, in order to gather the wishes of the families for a possible return to France. The aim is to offer suitable accompaniments to those who wish to do so in the national territory. Of course, no solution will be found without the families and none will be imposed on them. If families express their wish to continue their child's education in Saint-Mard at the next school year, derogatory funding arrangements will also be proposed so that these children can be accompanied according to their needs and in accordance with the wishes of the families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u204	Mr Brahim Hammouche spoke of his question, No. 1680, concerning difficulties in institutions for persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u205	I would like to draw the Government's attention to the continuing structural and organizational difficulties in institutions and services for persons with disabilities. In Moselle, despite the emergency measures that have been taken – such as the creation by the department of 60 places in a specialized adult shelter under the Creton plan, or the co-construction of partial solutions between the departmental houses of the disabled (MDPH), the associations of parents of inadequate children (APEI) and the ARS – the number of places remains insufficient. The notifications of the CDMH are not followed in the act of diligent placements that meet the expectations of families to accompany children, adolescents and young adults with disabilities, to accompany Helena, Vincent, Geraldina, Nathan, Franck and many others. In the absence of reception places adapted to their specific educational, cognitive, social and medical needs, these people are experiencing a marked deterioration in their care, a decline in development and even a break in their journeys. These difficulties are compounded by the working conditions of the staff of the host institutions, to the point that the recruitment of qualified personnel becomes very difficult in the APEIs. I am pleased that the State has provided an initial wage response in the draft law on the financing of social security for 2022, in line with the measures taken by the Ségur de la santé, by providing for the extension of the salary increase of 183 euros net per month to all health-care workers, medical-psychological aids, social workers and educational and social assistants working in establishments or services, whether private or public, for persons with disabilities. However, this decision left a number of professionals, including educators, specialized technical educators, administrative staff – particularly secretaries – and social workers and psychologists, creating new disparities, which have been added to the statutory inequalities between caregivers, depending on the sector. Finally, the proximity to Luxembourg, which offers better pay and more interesting career developments, continues to affect the recruitment of qualified staff in APEIs and EMIs. Recognizing that the wage lever will not be enough, I call for a redefinition of the professional perspectives that can give meaning to the work of staff engaged in the daily work of these fragile audiences. The medical and social trades conference held on 18 February 2022 offers a renewed hope to families, persons with disabilities and the professionals concerned. Therefore, at the end of this conference, it seems appropriate to take a step-by-step step on the measures envisaged by the Government, in order to give concrete effect to the adjustments that we are awaiting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u206	The next speaker is the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u207	Mr President, you are referring to the accompaniment of persons with disabilities in Moselle, as well as to the attractiveness of the professions in the medical and social sector. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, the deployment of new accompanying solutions has been one of the priorities, in order to offer tailor-made services. As such, 11,000 new accompanying solutions have been created over the past five years. Together with the departments, we are also deploying inclusive housing, which is 80 per cent funded by the State: it is a new form of housing that makes it possible to live as at home, while at the same time benefiting from quality on-site accompaniment. However, these solutions can only be implemented with well-trained and well-paid staff. This is why the state has been mobilizing for more than two years to strengthen the attractiveness of care and "care" professions. As you pointed out, this has already resulted in massive revalorisations, amounting to 183 euros net per month for 1.6 million caregivers. With regard to professionals in the socio-educational sector, last Friday the Prime Minister announced unprecedented measures. From now on, professionals in the disability, integration, childhood and housing sectors will benefit from the €183 net monthly premium. In total, the State and the departments commit themselves to mobilise more than 1.3 billion euros, with measures that also concern EHPAD co-ordinating doctors, the home support services of the communal social action centres, but also nursing centres. Member of the Assembly, please be aware that the entire Government is fully mobilized to ensure that these announcements quickly translate into the payroll of these dedicated professionals.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u208	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u209	I thank you on behalf of Helena, Vincent, Geraldina, Nathan, Franck and all the others, and also on behalf of the professionals with this very special competence, which is called the human relationship and which refers to our humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u210	Mrs Pires Beaune has the floor to put her question, No. 1706, on candidates for further education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u211	Madam Deputy Minister, having been asked several times in recent months on this subject, I would like to ask you about the policy of recruiting teachers in schools. As a first step, at the end of September 2021, I was selected by winners of the Clermont-Ferrand Academy School Teacher Recruitment Competition, who are on the supplementary list: they do not understand that in this department, the national education services employ contractors rather than them, when full-time recruitment needs remain or appear during the year, while in other academies, the winners of the supplementary list are specifically called upon. More recently, at the beginning of February 2022, I was approached by teachers assigned to the neighbouring department of Allier. They have been asking for many years – for some for nine years – for their transfer to the Puy-de-Dôme, and they also do not understand why the recruitment of contract workers is privileged to the detriment of their own requests for transfer. Finally, a few days ago, my attention was drawn to the fate of the teachers of the intern schools recruited on the main list at the CRPE – school teacher recruitment competition – of 2021 and assigned to the Allier, although this assignment was not their first choice; They deplore the fact that they could not have benefited from the recent recruitments carried out in the Clermont-Ferrand Academy, which could have been done by putting them before the winners of the supplementary list. You see, Madam Deputy Minister, these situations are different and the demands of my interlocutors may seem – for some – to compete. However, they highlight several elements, first and foremost a divergence between academies in recruitment policy, since some seem to favour the use of the supplementary list when others recruit contractors. Hence my first question: what are the reasons for these differences, and to what extent does the Government intend to harmonize recruitment policies among academies? The second element is, in my view, the central problem; It relates to the use of contract personnel to provide a mission that normally requires success in a competitive process at the lowest level. We're not improvising our teachers! My second question is therefore simple: why recruit contractors rather than people who, for some of them, are already in office and are asking for their transfer, and, for others, have prepared, passed and passed the school teacher recruitment competition?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u212	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u213	The volume of positions offered in the competitive examinations for the recruitment of first-degree public professors is determined by the number of jobs voted in the Finance Act, which takes into account a number of criteria such as the projected number of students and the number of retirements in each academy. The distribution of recruitment posts by academy is based on a projection of the needs of each of them. As you know, each competition results in the establishment of a main list, which ranks candidates declared fit by the board in order of merit. If the main list is complete, the Board may draw up a supplementary list of candidates to allow the replacement of candidates on the main list, who cannot be appointed or, if necessary, to fill vacancies arising in the interval of two competitions. The mobilization of supplementary lists is adapted for each academy, particularly with regard to the consumption of jobs and vacancies at the start of the school year. At the start of the 2021 school year, 151 trainees from the supplementary lists were actually called to fill registered vacancies. In order to ensure that all successful candidates have access to the training package under the same conditions, the supplementary list is usually not used to replace candidates on the main list after one month after the start of the training. After this period, the new needs that appear are taken care of by contract teachers. Exceptionally, in the framework of measures announced on 13 January to strengthen the first level of education in the context of the resurgence of the health crisis, the academies were allowed to appeal to the candidates remaining on the supplementary list of the contest, noting that some of them had already exhausted their lists at the beginning of the year. In accordance with article 10 of the Decree of 1 August 1990 on the special status of teachers in schools, trainees who have been appointed on the basis of a supplementary list are assigned to their appointment in a vacant post and will carry out their internship in the following school year, in this case in the year 2022-2023. In view of the exceptional situation which led to the nomination of these winners, academies are invited to set up a specific support mechanism, e.g. by offering training solutions during the winter school holidays and, in a systematic way, tutoring or mentoring.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u214	Mrs. Christine Pires Beaune has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u215	Thank you, Madam Deputy Minister, for these points of answer, which, however, satisfy me only half. It is cheaper for the State to recruit contractors than to hold competitive examinations. Then, of course, the PLF must be taken into account, but we have voted for PLFRs – amending finance bills! It is therefore possible to increase the number of posts. I simply note that the "whatever it costs" for businesses does not apply to schools: it is regrettable. The Puy-de-Dôme school map for the 2022 school year is another proof: classes will be closed in RPIs – inter-communal pedagogical groupings – simply because the number of posts allocated does not meet the priorities set by the Government. All this makes me say that, in national education, human resources management only conforms to a rigid PLF instead of adapting to existing needs. Again, for our schools, applying the "no matter what" would make sense.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u216	Mrs Marietta Karamanli has the floor to put her question, No. 1708, on inclusive school.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u217	My question is addressed to the Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports and concerns the situation of disabled children and children with language disorders in schools, colleges and high schools in Le Mans and Sarthe. Some children – and their families – cannot attend regular school because of the lack of adequate care and support. Some children with disabilities cannot attend full-time school every year; This may be the result of a lack of AESH – accompanying students with disabilities – or ULIS – a local unit for school inclusion – and the lack of teacher training, or the inability of these children to access extracurricular time, including catering, and a genuine educational continuity. In addition, children with language disorders, called dysphasic or dyslexic, are not adequately cared for every year. According to an estimate made a few years ago, 5 per cent of students had such disorders; They were often not taken into account because of the lack of early detection and teacher training, the only partial application of individualised reception projects (ISPs), the lack of additional time devoted to learning rather than evaluation and insufficient coordination within the institutions. No matter what disability or disability the child suffers, his or her parents feel guilty and suffer a lot, and his or her teachers feel a great perplexity; Above all, all this leads to an immense waste of his abilities. At the same time, there are concerns about a regulatory text that would refer to children "unable to attend school". There are several problems. On the one hand, staff accompanying students with disabilities are not well-recognized and are not paid at the fair value of their activity. On the other hand, schemes such as individualized care projects, which specify the adjustments to be made to the life of the child or adolescent in the community, are not systematically taken into account and are reduced during schooling to an additional third assessment time, without shared support for learning. I would like to know, on the one hand, the number of disabled children who could not be accommodated in schools, colleges and lycées in Le Mans and Sarthe, for lack of adequate care, and, on the other hand, the number of children who are the subject of an IAP and a tutorship or a differentiated pedagogy. A comprehensive review of the inclusive school arrangements available to the children concerned should be carried out in each department: to do so, a conference bringing together all the actors could define objectives and estimate the necessary resources. Such an exercise could foster dialogue between the local and regional levels and national policy. I would like to know, Madam Deputy Minister, what the State has done and what it still needs to do about it, and how it will be done.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u218	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u219	The President of the Republic and the Government have made disability a five-year priority. Emmanuel Macron himself, at the National Conference on Disability on February 11, 2020, announced the creation of 11,500 AESH jobs by the end of 2022, as well as the increase in their working time, in order to prevent these people from entering into contracts on an incomplete basis. AESHs guarantee quality support for all students with disabilities, and we must now work to make their profession more attractive. We do this by guaranteeing them a real permanent and recognised status, through CSD and CDI, where they only had aided contracts before 2017, or by allowing them to access the trainings registered in the departmental and academic training plans. Since 1 September 2021, we have introduced a statutory system comprising an index grid and a progression according to seniority; it allows for a regular and automatic revalorisation of the remuneration of the AESH, and a continuous improvement of their conditions of employment. The partnership with the departmental houses for people with disabilities, the CDMH, is also strengthened; In particular, the aim is to analyse requests for notification of human aid taking into account the benefits of LSPs – inclusive localised support hubs – and also to determine a notification schedule to anticipate recruitment of AESH. LSPs offer greater organizational flexibility and allow better adaptation to local issues; They must also lead to professionalisation of the accompanying persons and an improvement in their working conditions. They also encourage the possibility for the AESHs to see their working time increase: we are thinking, for example, at this time, about the inclusion of leisure, cultural and sporting activities of persons with disabilities in their field of intervention. Experienced since 2019, PIALs were widespread at the beginning of the 2021 school year, and it is more than 4040 PIALs that are now spread throughout the country – this refers to the departmental conferences that you have just mentioned. Thus, the support of students is organized as closely as possible to their needs. In the fall of 2021, the scheme was able to respond quickly to the needs that had been identified for the Sarthe department. However, in view of the continuous evolution of notifications, following the new needs identified, this situation may evolve pending recruitment or reorganization of human support to new students notified. In addition, since the 2019 school year, a new training framework entitled "Training the Teacher of the 21st Century" has made the inclusion of students an integral training area for teachers. In addition, the circular of 10 February 2021 on the individualized reception project, the IAP, will facilitate the journey of life as a collective structure for young people with health disorders that evolve over a long period of time and require adjustments. Finally, an inclusive course booklet (LPI) is gradually being put in place throughout the departments: it will eventually be able to identify all the IAPs, the PAPs – personalized support plans – or the PPS – personalized school enrolment projects – written to follow and accompany the course of students with special educational needs, and of course to report – that's what you asked me about – on the number of children hosted at national level in our schools and whose disability situation makes this particular support necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u220	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor to put her question, No. 1681, on the housing tax of associations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u221	My question concerns the subjection of our associations to the housing tax. As we know, the world of associations plays a key role in the functioning of our model of society, and it is popular with the French, since it has 21 million members, 12.5 million volunteers and nearly 2 million employees. Our majority has been fully involved in associative issues, in order to allow for the involvement of as many as possible in associations. I am thinking in particular of the creation of the universal national service (UNS), which has enabled young people to carry out their mission of general interest in associative structures, thus generating future commitments; the sharp increase in the number of civic service contracts; to pass'sport, which allows for the admission of 5 million children to sports associations; and finally, the massive investment that has been made for the voluntary sector. The question of subjecting our associations to the housing tax is a matter of debate, and I am frequently questioned by mayors of my constituency, including that of Bourges. Despite its abolition for a large majority of our citizens, as you know, the housing tax is maintained for the premises that the associations occupy exclusively. Disparities existed among associations, but the Government had addressed them by harmonizing practices and providing for systematic subjugation. While it is easy to understand that private spaces are taxed at the legal rate, as the mayor of Bourges points out, it is more difficult to understand that places in which activities for all the public are organised are taxed. These activities are supported by the public funds of the State or local authorities. Of course, associations can apply for the pardon of all or part of their taxation when they are in great difficulty, but in fact this is difficult to obtain. Madam Deputy Minister, what are the options envisaged by the Government to reduce the level of taxation of associations? In order not to tax areas welcoming the public, could the concept of private occupation be redefined? Similarly, could a more flexible appreciation of the graceful remission be provided for associations in great difficulty?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u222	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u223	In accordance with the provisions of articles 1407 and 1408 of the General Tax Code, the housing tax is established on behalf of persons who have the disposition or use of taxable premises. As you said, Mrs. Essayan, the Government has made it clear in the past that the non-taxation of non-profit organizations with disinterested management does not have the effect of exempting them from the payment of the housing tax for privately occupied furnished premises, provided that they are not subject to the property assessment of the enterprises. Premises that are subject to the housing tax are subject to two conditions. First, they must be furnished in accordance with their non-commercial or non-industrial destination. This is the case for premises which are not specially adapted for the exercise of an industrial or commercial profession. Secondly, they must be assigned to the private use of the persons who are available to them, i.e. members of the association. The rules governing the subjection of the premises of associations and, more broadly, of legal persons to the housing tax are therefore not only very clear, but also stable over time. Thus, these rules have not been affected by the reform of the housing tax on the principal residence, which cannot, by definition, concern these premises. The premises of legal persons to whom the public has access and in which it can move freely shall not be subject to housing tax, unless the rules of access are laid down by the user community. This clarification has long been made by the Government. Therefore, even if the assessment of the privative or non-privative nature of the occupation is a matter for tax services, under the control of the tax judge, there is little ambiguity as to the applicable rules. I would add that the administration communicates in a very satisfactory way on the subject. We could, of course, question the appropriateness of applying the housing tax to legal persons. The current law already guarantees – which is essential – that the same bodies cannot be both liable for business property assessment and housing tax. Going further would have a significant impact on the finances of the municipalities and their groupings. Local authorities would thus be forced to defer this loss of resources to other local taxpayers, which would lead to an increase in the tax burden. Local authorities, on the other hand, are free to voluntarily support local interest associations established in their territory by granting them grants. This voluntary and transparent form of support is more appropriate than tax aid to local and regional authorities, which could neither refuse nor control it. Finally, as we frequently remind the Government, when associations face real difficulties in paying their contributions, they can apply for the remission of all or part of their taxation from the tax department.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u224	Mrs Nadia Essayan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u225	Thank you for your explanation, Madam Deputy Minister. I will certainly pass them on to the associations concerned and discuss them with them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u226	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to put his question, No 1702, on avian influenza in poultry farms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u227	My question was to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, but, in his absence, I am asking you, Madam Minister for Sport! I would like to draw the Government's attention to the situation of small open-air poultry farms and to the measures taken to combat the spread of avian influenza, with the end, since 5 November, of the exemption granted to small open-air farms in terms of containment. In order to stem this epizootic disease, which is particularly prevalent in the South-West of France, many small open-air farms, operating in autarcia – these small farms are prized by the French because they are not industrial and because they respect a certain agricultural tradition – were forced to claustify their poultry even though the virus had not been detected in their department. This is particularly the case in the Vaucluse. I met with breeders – in particular the president of the Save who hen association, at the head of a farm of less than 250 poultry – who explained to me that the prefecture had warned them to make their animals clear, threatening, if not, to issue administrative measures up to the suspension of activity and possible criminal sanctions. However, such a claustration poses two problems. The first concerns the veracity of the information given to the consumer. When our compatriots go to the supermarket to buy eggs or poultry, they prefer open-air livestock products, which benefit from the corresponding label. The confinement of chickens in a building does not correspond to the consumer's expectations, who believes he is buying open-air livestock products, although that is not the case. Secondly, while these breeders are very attached to animal welfare – which is why they have often chosen this method of rearing – the obligation of claustration in unsuitable enclosures calls into question this well-being. Lastly, the measures taken by the Government placed severe constraints on livestock farms, putting them at economic risk. Has the Government planned to adapt these measures so as not to penalize farms in autarcia, which do not constitute the main outbreaks of epizootic diseases? Madam Deputy Minister, listen to these farmers who love their profession, and allow them to raise their poultry in the open!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u228	The Minister for Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u229	As you said, Mr Aubert, this year, France is once again affected by a highly pathogenic avian epizootic disease, which also affects thirty-three other European countries. On 18 February 2022, France had 364 outbreaks in livestock farms, of which 345 were in the South West, 33 confirmed wildlife cases and 15 low-course cases. All volatile species are affected: laying hens, chickens, turkeys and palmipedes. Despite strengthened biosecurity measures, decided after the last crisis with all stakeholders and applied by producers to prevent the spread of the virus, new outbreaks have been detected in domestic birds. The regulations on the biosecurity of farms were laid down in the Order of 29 September 2021. This Order amends the conditions for compulsory shelter during periods of risk, taking into account the types and methods of rearing. If the general rule is that poultry should be sheltered in a building, the latter shall be imposed only on the modes of production which have the structural and technical means to enable them to apply this provision. Other appropriate and specific shelter provisions have been introduced after consultation with all professional organisations and have been included in the regulations. For example, for small-scale farms, for short- or autarchic farms, which you have mentioned and which often have small-scale buildings, shelter can be carried out for small-scale routes, with or without covered areas of nets depending on the species. For species reared in the open air, exit from the route is also permitted in the event of a welfare problem identified by the veterinary surgeon. This possibility was introduced in order to avoid animal welfare problems caused by too high a density in a farm building during the finishing phase. The crisis that the poultry sector is going through again this winter is dramatic in every respect, especially for farmers. I know that this situation, which happens every year, is not satisfactory and raises a number of questions in the light of all the efforts made. The Government wished not to wait until the end of the crisis to better understand the resurgence and spread of the virus. The conclusions of the scientists are expected soon. The first elements of expertise of the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency (ANSES) show that poor compliance with biosecurity measures would be the cause of many households in livestock farms. The departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as well as all livestock technicians and veterinarians, are fully mobilised to help the sector to progress in the implementation and compliance of the necessary biosecurity measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u230	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u231	If, instead of counting the number of poultry farms affected by avian influenza, there were the number of poultry from industrial contaminated farms, it would be found that autarchic farms are not affected by epizootic waves and represent a very low risk. This is a subject of great caution, as small farms have a low economic profitability and will not survive for long if they continue to be imposed more and more new standards. They do not have the economic capacity to assume them, and farmers may be discouraged. They are usually guided by the love of their profession. If they are forced to do what they don't like – to lock up poultry, to do continuous tests – the young generation is at risk of being discouraged and small farms are gradually disappearing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u232	We have concluded the oral questions without debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-22-O1160.u233	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Questions to the Government; Statement by the Government on France's engagement in the Sahel, followed by a debate. The meeting is adjourned.
