ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u1	The next item is the debate on the legalization of cannabis: European developments, French blockages. This debate was called for by the Freedom and Territory Group. At the latter's request, he is held in the Lamartine room so that outside personalities can be interviewed. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. We will begin with a round table in the presence of invited persons, lasting one hour, and then, after hearing an introductory statement from the Government, we will proceed with a new sequence of questions and answers, also lasting one hour. Questions and answers will be limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. For the first phase of the debate, I welcome Mrs Emmanuelle Auriol, Economist, Mr Jean-Pierre Couteron, Clinical Psychologist, and Mr Bruno Laforestrie, Director of Radio Mouv' and author of the book Hasch, the shame of the Republic. I shall now give the floor to each of our guests for a statement of about five minutes each. Mrs Emmanuelle Auriol, economist, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u2	Thank you very much for your invitation and for the honour of hearing us on the issue of the benefits and pitfalls that can be anticipated from legalizing recreational cannabis. Historically, cannabis was banned in every part of the world, in accordance with the UN conventions and as a result of the lobbying efforts of the United States. Then, in 2013, Uruguay decided to legalize. It was the first country to do so, and it didn't go very well: the initiative came from the President and was imposed on the rest of the country. Real successes began in the United States, when popular initiative referendums, bottom-up, were held in 2015, leading to the legalization of recreational cannabis. Since then, many American states have legalized it, as well as other countries around the world. The first thing I would like to say is that absolutely no State that has done so wishes to go back. I believe that this should make us all think, especially since, given the diversity of the American countries and states that have taken the step – for various reasons – we are not dealing with fanatics of anarchy. The status quo in France is characterized by a policy of prohibition, therefore a policy of supply: legal supply is abolished, hoping that it also turns off demand. Unfortunately, a frustrated demand generates a black market and the organization of a mafia. This happens every time you remove a legal market for which there is a large demand, such as alcohol – another example of prohibition that has not worked. There are about 200 million cannabis users worldwide. As a result, it is an illegal drug that is widely used and, as a result, there is a very large black market: 50% of the Mafia's turnover is due to the prohibition of cannabis. In the face of this failure – not to mention abuses of human rights committed in the name of the fight against drugs in some countries that are not democracies – many countries have come to believe that it would be better to go back and legalize the use of the product to better control it. The advantage of legalisation is that it allows the State to regain control of a market which, if it is in the hands of the mafias, obviously escapes it. Thus, the quality of the products is not controlled when they are offered by dealers. Moreover, because they are sold under the coat, they do not generate tax revenues. Finally, trafficking is a major source of revenue for the mafias, which reinforces them. Moreover, the use has been criminalized in accordance with the UN conventions: the consumer is therefore treated as a criminal, and its repression absorbs a great deal of working time for the law enforcement agencies and engulfs justice. All these are costs, which are not compensated by any profit. The situation is particularly dramatic in our country, which is still very repressive in this area – it is enough to see the current situation; law enforcement is always seen as a means of dealing with the problem. At the same time, we know, and it is very sad, a very high consumption by minors: France is the first country to use cannabis in those under 20, and even 18 years of age. At the age of 15, 50% of the French experienced cannabis. The very high availability of the product causes young people to consume it. But we know that in children, this product affects short-term memory and can cause the onset of psychosis... They should therefore be protected, but the status quo by which a deregulated market is left in the hands of dealers leads to dramatic drifts. If one legalizes, one obtains tax revenues, one can control quality, one weakens crime: these advantages are fairly well demonstrated in the economic literature. Another advantage, of which I assume Mr Couteron will speak, is that a demand management policy can be pursued, in particular to avoid the use of cannabis by children and to avoid the development of addictions or other problems. However, if there is only one form of prohibition, many legalizations are possible. Some of them have not worked or have produced disappointing results. I think it is important for Members to have it in mind. If one day we legalize recreational cannabis in France, what I hope, the question is how. The countries that have encountered pitfalls, such as Uruguay, are first those that have underestimated demand. If you make this mistake – this has also been the case in Canada – you will not have sufficient stocks at the time of legalization and the product will be insufficiently available. But if it is to be rationed, or if its quality is not good, the black market will not be extinguished. The second mistake would be to impose a very strong tax on cannabis from the outset. The prosecutor responsible for ending the prohibition of alcohol in the United States had understood this well and, in order to drain the resources of the mafia, had wished to apply very low taxation at the beginning of the reintroduction of legal alcohol. Only then, once the mafia pocket was cleaned, did the tax increase. The devil is in the details and the modalities of legalization are important. For example, it is necessary to ensure that the prohibition of sale to minors is respected. I have written with a co-author a note to the Economic Analysis Council, which I encourage you to read. In order to control the market, we recommend the creation, on the basis of tobacco distribution, of a state public monopoly associated with delegated private agencies. I'll be at your disposal if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u3	Mr Jean-Pierre Couteron, clinical psychologist, member of the Addictions France network, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u4	I thank you for addressing this subject, which is so often poorly dealt with, whereas in view of the addiction situation, it should normally be established by the legislator as a priority of public health policy. I'll talk to her on the basis of my role as a clinician. I have been exercising in addictions for more than thirty years. I started working in Mantes-la-Jolie and I work today in Boulogne-Billancourt; That is to say, I have experienced from within the social inequalities of health and the great disparities of use. In Boulogne-Billancourt, as in Mantes-la-Jolie, psychoactive substances are used. It would be futile to hope to live in a world where no one would touch it. In saying this, I am not trying to trivialize the issue, contrary to what one might believe, but I am taking note, as a caregiver, of a deeply human phenomenon. Who consumes today? People like you and me, people like our ministers, like MPs. Many use alcohol or tobacco, which are psychoactive substances. Some use other psychoactive substances that are unlucky to be classified in another legal category. However, from a medical point of view, it has been a long time since we made any distinction between them: from top to bottom of the care chain, from university hospital centres to centres of care, accompaniment and prevention in addictology, the CSAPAs, all fall in our view into a unique category: addictology. We do not deal with usage but with the problems that some have with these uses. Just as most people who use these substances do not have to deal with the device, we would like them not to have to deal with the police force. In the restaurant next to the National Assembly, where we went to have a coffee, I'm sure that alcohol is not prohibited, even during a dry period January... Adults consume at the end of the day to relax. Teenagers consume because they live through difficult years, because they are fragile, and this consumption can cause them additional problems because of their age – Mrs Auriol referred to this – and sometimes to the penal status of the product. At the other end of the chain, people consume because they have a much more problematic life history, and these will often be treated because they have behind psychotrauma, personal experiences that make these products come to their homes hold an additional place. This is the first point: we do not consume by chance. Second point: the effects of products. Of course, all the campaigns say that, and we must repeat, these effects are dangerous, but these same products also have positive effects and that is why they are consumed. A number of you – I am, in any case – have probably already used opiates. I used them when I was sick, to treat pain. It is not the opiate itself that is dangerous, but the way it is consumed, the framework in which it is consumed. It's hard to hear in a place like this, but a psychoactive substance is a pharmakon: both a drug and a poison. We must accept it and not just see bad products there, as some speeches encourage, when they are useful. I would point out that the most toxic of these products is, in the unanimous opinion, alcohol. The most dangerous psychoactive substance is alcohol, because it is toxic, highly addictogenic and has significant psychological effects. There are therefore no good and bad substances, nor heavy or light substances: there are psychoactive uses that must be addressed. On the other hand, some products, such as alcohol, are part of our culture, unlike others, such as cannabis. The legislator has thus far considered that the latter product does not deserve to be placed on the market and should be prohibited. I do not, of course, seek to defend your predecessors, but they may have supported this position in good faith. As a result, cannabis has been the subject of a parallel market, the prohibition market, in the hands of people whose sole purpose is to earn money, without any public health concerns. I attended the development of this market in Mantes-la-Jolie: gradually, the dealers have professionalized and violence has developed; Today we are facing settlements and battles, not for cannabis, but for the money it brings back. Dealers are not traders, but businessmen whose traffic thrives outside the rules of society. The second consequence of prohibition is that the most vulnerable groups of the population use cannabis. In countries that prohibit this substance, such as France, we have seen a surge in youth consumption, which is in fact the most serious problem. Finally, the last consequence of the prohibition of cannabis, measures aimed at channelling uses, such as awareness-raising courses on the dangers of the use of narcotics, initiated by a former Member of Parliament, or the flat-rate fine for the use of narcotics, are applied in various ways according to neighbourhoods and social origins and thus undermine the values of the Republic. In conclusion, defending its legalization does not mean praising cannabis, but recognizing that it is no more dangerous than other substances. Since there is a demand and a market, let us be pragmatic, as are our European neighbours, which are moving towards legalisation. The regulation of the cannabis market will guarantee consumers a better quality product. Recall that it is not so much cannabis itself that is dangerous – but I do not deny its effects – but the synthetic products that are added in order to increase its action. One of the main problems with cannabis use is the poor quality of the product. Legalisation will therefore allow access to a quality health product and will also promote risk reduction practices. The best way to limit the consequences of cannabis use is to limit it to a reasonable level. Would it have been possible to ban driving because it causes fatal accidents? It was preferred to improve the safety of drivers by making the seat belt mandatory. Finally, legalization of cannabis would improve access to care and support for consumers, who would no longer be forced to hide for fear of sanctions and would therefore be more inclined to seek support. I did not address the issue of prevention and care in this introduction because I am used, when I speak in the National Assembly, to telling me that no one is interested in this subject and that it will never get any funding. However, a policy of regulation on cannabis would make it possible to unblock a budget for prevention. It should be pointed out that France is particularly lagging behind other countries in this area. Obviously, this is not a big concern!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u5	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u6	Mr Bruno Laforestrie, Director of Radio Mouv', has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u7	I started my career in Ivry-sur-Seine twenty-five years ago, and now I work in the 16th arrondissement of Radio France. After the brilliant presentations we have just heard and given my trajectory, I will concentrate in my speech on youth and the place of cannabis in French culture. Over the past 20 years, cannabis cultivation, a global culture, has settled in France. Cannabis is now a substance that enters the morals. It is regularly consumed throughout the cultural, musical and artistic industry and no longer affects only major rock bands like Pink Floyd! Today, all cinematographic, audiovisual – see Netflix – and musical – not just rap – productions attest that cannabis is part of the practice and has become rooted in mentality. Young people are particularly concerned. We face a cultural challenge in the broad sense of the term: cannabis is now part of people's lives and, unfortunately, of young people's lives. Why unfortunately? I will not go back to everything that has just been said, but it is proven that cannabis is dangerous for people under the age of 18 because it affects their development. In addition, its consumption is a time bomb, especially psychiatrically, because the substances currently in circulation are ten times more powerful than those consumed twenty years ago. Unfortunately, the phenomenon is well known. In this pandemic period, doctors and scientists are at the heart of public debate and health is a central concern for all. The dangers of cannabis to the health of young people should therefore logically be at the centre of the discussions. How can we accept that our society allows a product to destroy the mental health of its young people? This question requires a rapid response, in cooperation with the scientific community. From pneumonologists to addictologists, all the representatives of the medical sphere agree on the urgency of the situation, in France and in the other countries of Europe and the world. At the international level, scientists are unanimous about the need for action. The UN, soon the European Union, Germany and several other countries are addressing the issue of cannabis from a public health perspective. In France, reflection must also take place and this debate is an important first step. As far as young people are concerned, our goal must be to get them out of the street, just as we must get cannabis out of the street. This substance mainly concerns young people, it must be said. The vast majority of those who consume them are under 25 years of age. Beyond the image of Epinal of the 45-year-old bobo who occasionally smokes a joint in the evening, in reality marginal consumer, cannabis users are massively under the age of 25. Similarly, street cannabis vendors are massively under the age of 25: they are usually even under the age of 18... The elected officials with whom we discuss the subject are formal: these kids are paid 80 euros to sell cannabis seven days a week, from noon to midnight. This is the situation in France today! How can we tolerate young French people living like this? In my book Hasch, the shame of the Republic, I designate them as the new luxenproletariat. They are between 150000 and 200000, but if they were only 10000, the question would arise just as much. These young people often live in very poor neighbourhoods and in disadvantaged families. When parents have money, children obviously don't need to earn it! The situation of these young people, which has only deteriorated for twenty years, requires that we act and change the system. Young people consume more and more and there are more and more young people on the street! How can we combat the ravages of cannabis, especially in terms of prevention? Many scientists and specialists have proposed solutions applicable at European level, but the fight must first and foremost take place at cultural level. We need to make consumers understand that they need to regulate their use of cannabis. When you tell a person under the age of 18 that this substance is banned, you only want it. A permissive speech is obviously not recommended, but the discourse of firmness does not take and ends in a clear failure. So we have to find a middle ground. As for young people who deal on the street, contrary to what is often heard, there is no fatality. It is above all the social situation and poverty of these young people that leads them to sell cannabis. They don't have access to consumption and can't buy sneakers on Instagram and TikTok. The surrounding culture pushes them to engage in this traffic. However, I am not saying that legalisation is the solution. On the other hand, I advocate a "cannabis transition". From my point of view, the stakes are primarily cultural and political, in the noble sense of the term. How can our society get out of the economy and the cultivation of cannabis? The aim is to take note of the importance of this consumption and to set a dual political objective: to reduce the consumption of young people and get them out of the street. Of course, they should not be taken out of the street to jail, where the use of cannabis only increases and leads even to other drugs. The decree of 30 December 2021 prohibiting the sale of cannabidiol (CBD) in bloom will result in the resumption of the activity of the traffickers. All young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who had managed to switch from tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) to CBD – a health improvement – will turn to traffickers to buy their CBD. The latter will also sell THC and sometimes even cocaine... This decree endangers the health of young people! The "cannabis transition" is essential. Legalization of this substance is only one of the technical aspects of this transition. Once a political agreement has been reached on the issue of cannabis, it will be necessary to determine the modalities of the transition and the structures that implement it. The decision is first and foremost the responsibility of the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u8	We come to the questions. I invite all those who wish to do so to register with the management of the meeting. Each question will be immediately followed by an answer so that the debate is as smooth as possible. Mr François-Michel Lambert spoke on the first question, with the Libertés et territoires Group at the initiative of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u9	I thank the three speakers who, each in their field, outlined the issues of legalization of cannabis. Our debate is entitled "Cannabis legalization: European developments, French blockages", but they have essentially demonstrated the reasons why the legalization of cannabis is inevitable. Mr. Laforestrie referred to the "cannabis transition" as the process by which this substance will find its right place in our society. According to him, legalization is one of the tools of this transition, which will go far beyond it. France, which has been chairing the Council of the European Union since 1 January, supports a common approach to the various public policies, but its position on the legalisation of cannabis is contrary to that of Portugal, Spain, Italy, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium, which are in favour of the legalisation or decriminalisation of cannabis. In this context, do you think that our country will be able to break out of a posture that stigmatizes consumers – the President of the Republic again made very hard comments about them yesterday in Le Parisien, assimilating them to those of the 15th and 16th arrondissement of Paris – and to open the dialogue in a reasoned way, in this period when reason is undermined by conspiracy? How do you see France's position and what arguments could we make to the Government to defend legalization? The Minister of the Interior, Gérald Darmanin, recently stated that European countries are now taking a step backwards in the area of legalisation, which I do not know is true, and that all the countries that have applied it are currently facing a health disaster, which I do not believe either. I thank you for giving us a few arguments so that we can have a discussion earlier with the Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, Sarah El Haïry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u10	Emmanuelle Auriol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u11	I am not demagogue and I know that politicians have voters. According to their electorate, they are therefore more or less in favour of legalization. France is a centralized country and cannot experiment with devices as federal countries do. The result is a certain conservatism and a reluctance to initiate certain developments. In my view, such an approach is sensible, since every reform decided must be carried out on a large scale. Experiments are more natural in the United States: some states are very conservative, but others are launching innovative policies. In an open economy, however, certain developments are inevitable. When UN conventions allow it, the trade in cannabis will be possible between countries. For the time being, it is prohibited and the legal sale of cannabis is limited to the domestic market of the countries which have authorised it. But cross-border traffic between France and these countries will inevitably develop and create new problems for us. As our neighbours register tax revenues, we will face new dealers. The evolution is inevitable, but I understand that it is difficult to resolve it in the context of the presidential campaign. If its voters are fiercely opposed to the legalization of cannabis, a political leader who needs their support can only hesitate to defend it. Members of Parliament have a very important role to play as representatives of the French people. The evolutions will come from you. In any event, as an economist, I consider that they are inevitable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u12	Jean-Pierre Couteron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u13	If I understand you correctly, you ask us to help you build an argument – it's amazing! Without going back to what Emmanuelle Auriol just said, I can give you two ideas. The first is the need to return to a common goal, which must unite us all: the defence of the health of our fellow citizens and our loved ones. There may be differences on the strategy to be adopted, but there must be agreement on the goal of better public health performance. I would add that, so far, we have addressed the health problems associated with illicit drug addiction through two instruments: penalization and medicalization. However, I am a health care provider – particularly a clinical psychologist – but also Assistant Secretary General of the Société française de santé publique (SFSP), and I can say in this capacity that public health is not just a medical issue. If we simply punish or treat, we thus deprive ourselves of all kinds of other tools that lie between these two approaches, which are those of education, prevention, psychosocial support and support to families – this is the second priority we should focus on. All these tools should be mobilised by means of a genuine public health policy, which is neither medical nor criminal. This would probably make it possible to broaden the debate. Finally, in order to link up with the idea of transition and to reflect on the evolution of the penal status of cannabis, I think that if we want to be consistent with the objective we set ourselves in terms of health, but also with regard to the second objective that I have just outlined, which aims to ensure that the answer is not simply to punish or medicalize, we must consider a third instrument: since there is a cannabis market – I look to the economist here –, as well as regulating it by entrusting it to persons who would be mandated to do so, including the law enforcement authorities – who would be responsible for controlling this regulation – rather than allowing it to take the form of a black market that has corrupted our neighbourhoods and our Republic, and whose effects, if we do not pay attention to it, may be increasingly serious. That being said, there will certainly be differences as to how this can be achieved, but after all, such differences are the honour of a democracy like ours.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u14	Mr Bruno Laforestrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u15	It was a question of ecological transition: it allows me to recall that a citizens' conference was held on this subject, which allowed people to think and make proposals – some were accepted by the Government, others were not. For my part, I am talking about "cannabis transition" and I think we need to take a similar approach. This first involves the creation of a scientific council composed of the most eminent specialists and scientists in the field; They must be given the same weight as those involved in the debate on the pandemic. Indeed, reason must prevail in the matter before us. Secondly, we must also give the floor to the citizens concerned in the first place, that is to say, to the young people and the inhabitants of the neighbourhoods – I am thinking in particular of the mothers who take turns in front of the schools to prevent their children from being subjected to trafficking. Because that's what this is about: I'm talking in my book about these real human tragedies, those lives that no one here has any idea – without even mentioning the children who are being killed on the street. If a child were killed in the 7th arrondissement of Paris during a cannabis-related raid, the subject might be treated differently! I therefore propose that a scientific council be set up to inform the French about the state of the situation and that a citizens' conference be set up with the people concerned, in which young people must be over-represented, because it is their future that is at stake. It's not complicated! Political decisions could then be taken, but they would be fed by the work that had been carried out. I would add that the National Assembly has published a tremendous report on the subject, not at all partisan – I have obviously read it in detail, and I am proud that the Assembly, on this and other matters, produces documents of such quality. It's all said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u16	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u17	On behalf of my colleagues, who, like me, have been part of the fact-finding mission that led to its preparation, I thank you for your comments on this report. One argument often comes back in the mouth of opponents of legalization and I wanted to hear your opinion on this: if it were to happen, people who are involved in cannabis trafficking and its derivatives would, so to speak, end up unemployed and turn to the sale of other substances. What can we answer them?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u18	Mrs Emmanuelle Auriol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u19	This is indeed an important question, which involves looking at the quantities: in France, there are about 300,000 cocaine users and several million cannabis users. This means that the latter are present absolutely everywhere, in all the departments of France, in all the cities, whatever their size, and that there is an important territorial network to satisfy them. Therefore, it is not very expensive for sellers to also offer cocaine. This leads to an idea inspired by the bridge effect, according to which cocaine is used because cannabis is used; But wanting to ban cannabis to avoid cocaine use is like banning elastic jumping to prevent people from wanting to throw themselves off the top of buildings. It's the same idea! In fact, most people are not suicidal. There are, of course, and that is why we must regulate, in order to protect them – there are people, indeed, who are sliding from cannabis to heroin, for example. But most consumers want to live! When alcohol was again legalized, after prohibition, and its income was therefore withdrawn from the mafia, the mafia could not replace it with another product. It was the ban on cannabis that led him to return to the market for psychotropic drugs. It is not because you remove the cannabis market, which is a very large market, from the mafia, that it will automatically turn to cocaine – it will sell, of course, but very little. I therefore do not think that the argument that legalisation will create greater disorders is relevant. The economic studies go in this direction: my profession has developed specific tools that allow us to observe the causal links – thus more than mere correlations – between legalization and crime, and all the studies available to us show a decrease in crime, not its increase. The second argument against legalization relates to the survival of the economic zones concerned. But, as studies show, they are far from being favoured by traffic! In fact, is there anyone in this room who would like to live in a suburb gangred by drug trafficking? Is there anyone among you who is thus considering the professional future of his children? I don't believe it. No one wants it for their children, but for the others, would that be acceptable? The argument is therefore not, first of all, moral but also economic. The way in which profits are distributed illustrates this: nannys and watchmen earn about the SMIC. They risk losing their lives or going to jail, but they make almost nothing! All profits are returned to production sites, particularly in Morocco; They thus escape from France. Of course, there are people who make money, but it is wrong to say that traffic benefits the suburbs concerned. On the contrary, the shops are leaving and the public authorities are giving up going there – prefects with whom I talked told me that they were no longer sending firefighters because they were being thrown away from them! In some quarters, if you have a heart attack, help won't come, or let's step back. All this is far from economically favouring a territory. I therefore believe that the argument that legalisation would threaten economic zones which are in disenfranchisement is to be ruled out. I don't believe in the burning of the suburbs that are predicted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u20	Mr Bruno Laforestrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u21	For my part, I will use the formula of "no matter what": first, we must get the people concerned out of poverty, no matter what the cost, and make sure that the younger ones consume less, no matter what the cost. If cannabis is legalized, the market will earn at least €4 billion in net revenues, and probably much more. Part of this money must therefore be devoted to the support of the young people concerned and should be used to get them out of poverty, no matter what the cost – an initiative has been launched in Marseilles on this subject; We will see what the results will be. It is for this reason that I am talking about "cannabis transition": it is not because cannabis is legalized that things will change all of a sudden, in a year or two. The transition takes time and it deserves a very profound political reflection, which is to ask whether it can be tolerated that 11-year-olds, when entering college, consider building their lives in drug trafficking, and that this happens as early as 15 or 16 years old. When I speak with them, I explain to them that they will earn 3000 euros a month in cash for two years, but that they will then spend three years in prison; In total, they will have won only 1200 euros a month over five years, not even the SMIC! It is therefore necessary to succeed in establishing a dialogue with them, in order to change the cultural representation they have of drug trafficking, assimilated to glory and wealth. We must also tell the truth: some people participate because they simply have no choice and are forced to take this risk. We need to work on the collective imagination to make it change, but as long as the sector continues to generate billions of euros, we will not be able to do so, even with all the good will of the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u22	Mr Jean-Pierre Couteron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u23	I will not go back to the economic stakes, which Emmanuelle Auriol masteres better than I do; In order to remain within my sphere of competence, I would add that the idea that, in the absence of illegal cannabis, dealers would start offering cocaine and their customers to consume it, seems to me a representation both legitimate and completely false. There will certainly be displacement effects on margins, but as far as consumer attitudes are concerned, such a forecast does not work, fortunately. I don't have time to show it to you in detail but I can give you an image to illustrate it: if you're a car lover and you know how to drive Mr. All-the-world's car, that's not to say that you can drive a Ferrari or Formula 1 overnight, even if you dream of it. There are great footballers who have a lot of money and buy these kinds of cars; But in reality, they are not able to drive them themselves and it is often their driver who takes care of them – unless they want to do the humorous section of L'Équipe, in which one learns that untel crashed his car when leaving his garage. Each of us has a threshold, in terms of experience of use, which he will not be able to exceed. I do not repeat the debate on the classification of cannabis as a soft drug or a hard drug, but if it has some success, it is because it can be used – like other products – at varying levels of intensity, more than other products which, from the outset, lead to a high intensity, which is not likely to be of interest to all consumers. Therefore, such an argument should not scare us. Secondly, Mr President, I would like to stress the value of a regulatory policy, which can be illustrated by a tap that mixes hot and cold water. By regulating, we give ourselves at all times the opportunity to tighten or loosen orders, and thus to avoid the "all or nothing" of a policy of prohibition, which is catastrophic. This is what our neighbours are doing in a regulatory policy: depending on the climate, the atmosphere, they insist a little more on one side or the other; We can see that they are mastering the evolution of the situation and that they are able to accompany it. Finally, I agree with the other two arguments put forward by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u24	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u25	Thank you for your comments. I have not read the entire report and my knowledge of cannabis is incomplete, but I would like to mention the case of an orchid producer in my department, the Yonne, which I visited recently – it produces the orchids found in the National Assembly, so it is a very beautiful production! In parallel, with friends, he is embarking on the production of therapeutic cannabis. I asked the prefect of the department to visit the place of production together, but apparently he doesn't want to go. It is important that we are aware of the arguments to defend this type of project, but also that we know exactly how things are going. I'm also a mother of three. So, like everyone else, I have a lot of questions about cannabis. You said earlier that it was no more dangerous than alcohol, but I think that the two uses can be linked: often, those who smoke cannabis also drink alcohol, and this is much more true than the other way around, since those who drink alcohol do not necessarily consume cannabis. I also wonder how the transition from illegality to legality will take place. You said earlier that you would have to respond to the request. It will therefore be necessary to obtain the necessary quantity of product: how will one respond overnight to such a demand, knowing that the production of cannabis is apparently at present very low in our territory? Should we go get some somewhere else? It will have to be produced, as does the person I mentioned in the Yonne – it could help. Cigarette, for example, was first illegal, but its legalization did not prevent the development of a black market for cigarettes at lower cost, linked to the rise in their prices – the increase was intended to increase the revenues of the State, in order to finance the care of people suffering from tobacco addiction. If we do the same with cannabis, we may end up in the same way with a black market of illegal cannabis, cheap and of very poor quality, so with cannabis that is very dangerous for consumers, even though it has been legalised. For us, this is an essential point: how to complete the transition, and what will be the consequences of legalization? When it comes to drug dealers, who thrive through illegal cannabis, what happens if they get that gain out of them? They'll have to offer their clients other drugs, a little different guy. You're telling us that we don't, but we're having a hard time understanding why!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u26	Mrs Emmanuelle Auriol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u27	Is cannabis a substitute or a supplement to alcohol? According to international studies, it is rather a substitute – one consumes either one or the other, but not both. On the other hand, especially in its illegal form, it is a complement to tobacco: consumers want to avoid counterfeit products and control what they buy, which is easier with grass – at worst, it contains pesticides. So they tend to smoke cannabis, which is not very good. As far as the transition to legalization is concerned, I repeat, the devil is in the details; That is why I have referred from the outset to taxation. You're right, abusive taxation is an economic prohibition. To put the pack of cigarettes at $1 million is to ban it; It doesn't make any difference since people can't buy it. There is therefore a limit to the tax burden that can be imposed to regulate this market. However, price changes have an effect, as observed for tobacco. All econometric studies show that when you increase cannabis prices, demand decreases. People are sensitive to this constraint. Taxation is therefore a tool provided that you are capped, you are right on this point. The application of too high taxes would lead to a resurgence of the black market. How to prepare for legalization? For the time being, international conventions prohibit the trade in recreational cannabis. It is forbidden even in the United States, which is a bit paradoxical – neighbouring states that have legalized cannabis cannot exchange it among themselves. Similarly, France, even if it opted for legalization, could not engage in such trade with the Netherlands, for example. Only the trade in cannabis for medical purposes is possible. The advantage is that domestic production would be protected, which is not possible in the case of other markets. This would also generate tax revenues, which, unlike our neighbours, we cannot benefit as long as production remains illegal. But if we legalise it, we will have to provide for large stocks, at least 500 tonnes. As with all agricultural production, it is enough to take one year in advance, but we must not believe that one tonne would be enough! I understand your anxiety at the idea of what dealers will do in case of legalization. In any case, they would be very weakened, while the police could spend the time they spend arresting users today, which is not an effective use of the police. Legalization is certainly not the panacea, but studies show that it would weaken much the worst and most destabilizing form of crime: organized crime. There will always be bicycle thieves, burglars and petty traffickers. Organized crime is something else. For the time being, this type of crime is well organized and structured. Acting from abroad, he feeds money laundering. It is very harmful to our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u28	[[At 15:45, Mr. Hugues Renson replaced Ms. Laetitia Saint-Paul in the Chair]]
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u29	Good evening, everyone. Mr Jean-Pierre Couteron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u30	In the allotted time, it is not easy to answer all the aspects of your important question, honourable Member, but if we could see each other again, we could give you more details. For my part, I will stress three points, in addition to Emmanuelle Auriol's intervention. The first point is the legitimate anxiety parents feel about their children. An incredible number of studies show the effectiveness of some prevention programs focused on developing psychosocial skills. In fact, these are very practical actions carried out in national education. Let us pay tribute to these initiatives, which, unfortunately, are taking place little by little and with infinitesimal doses, France is lagging far behind other countries in this field. These actions involve families and young people in schools. They provide additional resources at a time when they are likely to enter the market. Why are we consuming? Because of stress, anxiety, questioning. Because of their status as psychoactive substances, these products have the magical power to relieve these ailments in a matter of minutes. In the short term, the effects of the substance outweigh those of education. The solution is not to demonize products and penalize a market artificially. The means must be put in place to carry out a genuine policy of educational prevention. I repeat, we have enormous progress to make in this area. Second point: what is the risk of going too far? I repeat that a policy of regulation does not consist of opening the valves big before giving up any action. There should also be a substantive debate on the subject. The aim of such a policy is to gradually emerge from a parallel market that causes enormous damage – hence the notion of transition. We must not be afraid of a hypothetical black market for cannabis, like the one that exists for tobacco. In fact, we are winning the battle for a tobacco-free France. Of course, there is still a black market. Of course, we would like to see no more thieves, traffickers or saviours. However, if we continue the current policy of risk reduction and financial regulation, tobacco control will be a success overall. A legal market allows the state to carry out far more controls and actions than an illegal market. Thirdly, I assure you that we do not move so easily from one product to another. I am aware that I have not convinced you on this point – hence the interest of meeting again. I would need time to support my point, and I would like to respect the rules of the game, that is to say, to make short answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u31	And we thank you for that. Mr Bruno Laforestrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u32	In my book Hasch, the shame of the Republic, I do not speak once about legalization. For if for twenty years we have not been able to debate the subject constructively, it is precisely because of this binary presentation between prohibition and legalisation. Let's talk about transition. The transition first concerns the agricultural sector, in all the territories. Farmers, whose job is to grow plants, will tell you that cannabis grows in six months and that it is not difficult to reach a production of 500 tons. In addition, this plant absorbs carbon, which is very ecologically positive. With regard to the transition of the market, we can see it at work in Canada: the share of the black market has fallen to 50% of the total, and the goal is to reduce it to 25% in five years' time. No one claims that there will be no more black market, but it is possible to reduce it and the related problems – knowing that the police spend more than 1 million hours a year fighting this market. I'm coming to the educational transition. Any addictologist will tell you that it is necessary to talk about cannabis and alcohol to his children from an early age. You have to tell them that one day, when they are 13, 14, 15 or 16, someone may offer them a joint. You have to know how to deal with it, like with alcohol. Everyone refers to their children, but it is important to know how to distinguish the 16-year-old who drinks a beer on an evening from the one who meets in the emergency room after drinking a bottle of vodka on his own. It's not the same kind of behavior. Binge drinking isn't the norm, but we have to consider its causes. A young person who engages in it is a psychiatric patient. All scientists say that child psychiatry is in a scandalous state; children are not treated psychologically. There is a need to apply the "whatever it costs", to dedicate a great deal of resources to it so that there are psychologists in all schools, as in Germany. After months and years of debate, Germany, the most populous country in the European Union, has decided to make this transition in the field of cannabis. She will do so methodically, reviewing all subjects for two, three or four years. We will be able to draw inspiration from this country located at our doorstep since we have 300,000 borderers. It will be the first European country to embark on this path, after some states in the United States, cities like New York, Berlin and London that have just decided to decriminalize for the 18-24 year-olds. Think of Italy, Spain, Belgium, Luxembourg... In a year's time, the European landscape will have changed sharply, and we will find ourselves running behind the movement. It's better to anticipate and plan over a few years because, from my point of view, it's not just a matter of decriminalizing and closing the door, saying: that's it, it's done.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u33	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u34	We need cross-examination of this issue. Those of us who participated in this exciting information mission have learned a lot. We need to deconstruct some images that have been anchored for a long time. In your opinion, does the prohibition policy, which is very strong in France, not end up preventing the conduct of a real public health policy? By working only on the ban, are we not deprived of the possibility of doing substantive work on the reasons – psychological, social or other – that drive so many young people into cannabis addiction? You are also right to say that we must finally start a real dialogue with the young people, who are rarely involved in our debates. Lack of knowledge of these issues naturally leads people to wonder if cannabis could not be a gateway to harsher drugs. This fear, somewhat instrumentalized, is often emphasized. Could you, even in the short time available to you, come back to this point? In this regard, the quality of products must be reviewed. One of you mentioned CBD, well-being cannabis, which offers us a good example: if we do not create a healthy and well-organized sector, we will see the absurd situation in which we are, which leads us to import products without knowing under what conditions they are placed on the market. That's terrible. It seems to me that it is fear that the status quo has been going on for a very long time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u35	Mrs Emmanuelle Auriol has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u36	Being the subject of a deregulated market, the product is very easily available in France, especially since our country is on the distribution route from Morocco to Europe. If the market were regulated, there would be much less cannabis available, especially for minors. That is why I personally support the establishment of rules, the creation of dedicated officers for the sale of recreational cannabis, where children could not enter. Instead of arresting users, police forces could focus on monitoring the ban on the sale of tobacco, alcohol and cannabis to minors. The current status quo leads to a very high availability of the product and to the fact that all our children are in contact with it from the sixth grade. In France, the prevalence rate is more than 50%, meaning that French families are affected. It is our responsibility as adults, even if it concerns young people. For my part, I think it is necessary to put the market in the hands of the state to dry the black market and reduce the availability of the product. [[Smile]] The legal production of cannabis in France is also a means of controlling its quality and creating jobs in our country, which is also the world's leading producer of hemp. We really have no excuse! With regard to the gateway effect, all econometric studies show that it is not proven: using cannabis does not lead to the taking of harder substances, even if some will do so – people who have a somewhat suicidal profile. There is no information problem: it is well known that heroin and cocaine are highly addictive and dangerous products. For having exchanged with my children, I believe – and I will conclude on this point – that the prohibition of cannabis sends an unhealthy message about the other substances: as they try cannabis and find that they do not become addicts, teenagers imagine that it could go the same way for cocaine and wonder why adults lie to them like this. The fact that the legislation does not reflect the actual dangerousness of the products therefore seems to me to be a mistake, especially since this situation prevents any discussion: how can we talk with our children about the proper use of cannabis, since it is illegal? For the time being, due to the law, the proper use of cannabis simply does not exist.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u37	Mr Jean-Pierre Couteron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u38	I will focus on the two points that concern me more, namely the comparison between prevention policy and the sanctions regime and the likelihood that consumers will change from one experience of use to another. [[Ms. Michèle Victory exclaimed]] As for the first point, as I think I said when I was interviewed by the fact-finding mission: I am old enough to have, when I started working in the field of addictions, received a message from the Ministry of Health recommending that I not waste time dealing with young cannabis users, on the pretext that it was not a health problem. This episode, which can appear as a simple anecdote, shows that nothing is engraved in the marble when it comes to addiction. If our concerns are now focused on the problems faced by adolescents, it may be because France has, in the past, pursued a bad policy of treating cannabis use as a disease to be treated and oriented towards the most serious cases. In fact, I disagree with Mr Laforestrie's comments on this point: it seems to me that we are making a mistake in pretending to treat the whole population in one of the most serious situations which, fortunately, do not concern the majority of adolescents. When I leave you, I will return to children who suffer from psychotrauma and with whom it will take a difficult job to have them stop a product that relieves them. But I also spend time carrying out preventive activities with young people who have no other problem but to find their place in society. To meet the needs of this population, we need to mount prevention programmes, but we also need to mobilize and support families. I spare you the details of the arrangements that exist and that I am sure most of you have never heard of, but I am one of the professionals who worked on the creation of the Youth Consumer Consultations (YC) in 2004. No one cares much about it: I will even say that the majority of people don't care – and then we are accused of young people consuming substances! I refer to these consultations because, for example, the question of screens – because sometimes teenagers smoke in front of a screen – or the consumption of alcohol, to which the use of cannabis can actually be associated, even if it is not systematic. This takes care of the health of young people, rather than going on a crusade against a particular product. In fact, such an attitude tends to produce side effects, because by seeing us standing up against cannabis, teenagers can infer that consuming another has no consequence. So there are tools. While I have welcomed the fact that they have started to be used, I would like to say once again that I am disappointed to finish my career by seeing the pusillanimity of the financial and political resources granted to them: because we do not support these tools, we are underutilizing them. As far as your second question is concerned, I will not risk answering it when I have refused to do so for your colleague. I simply call for a return to the notion of experience. There is often a distinction between soft and hard drugs. In reality, the debate is not there, because the stake lies in the intensity of the experience. For example, in a carnival, some people will give up riding in certain sensational rides and each will place the limit on a different level. Fortunately, the majority of people do not seek to experience the most intense experiences. Imagine that we're distributing overpowering products here, which you would have the opportunity to try by gradually increasing the intensity: most of you would stop at an intermediate level and even a lower level, because that would be enough for them. If a prevention program were deployed in parallel, many would stop even earlier, believing that they have other possibilities to experience strong sensations – this thesis has been validated, even if, once again, I do not have time to present it to you in detail here. Some of the sensations sought can be brought about by activities that do not pose any problems: at the risk of appearing outdated, one can experience very strong sensations thanks to sport, music, or cultural activities that are not sufficiently mobilized. It is not at all anangelism to say this: on the contrary, it is a very pragmatic observation. If you are interested in this issue, Icelandic researchers have conducted a real population study, out of 300,000 inhabitants, to measure the impact of prevention programmes. When the programmes were launched in 1998, France had the same consumption rates for the main products as France – with 40% for one product, 25% for another and 18% for a third – these rates had fallen to 4%, 5% and 3% respectively in 2015, at the time of the first evaluations. The means of action therefore exist. They still need to be mobilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u39	Mr Bruno Laforestrie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u40	I will not dwell on the issues on which the specialist has just delivered his analysis, but I will return to the one I mentioned at the beginning of my speech concerning young people who use cannabis and especially those who sell it – because the police focus mainly on the sellers and on the market, so the brewing of money, to which they contribute. Let us be clear: the danger, in my view, is not that young cannabis dealers will start selling much more cocaine or heroin in the event of legalization – rather, by restricting as we are doing, legal access to the CBD, young people are being encouraged to turn to traffickers, which is still a particular public policy. On the other hand, if nothing is done, it seems obvious that by depriving of income – even if the latter were limited to 1000 or 1500 euros – a population exposed at the same time to endemic unemployment, there is a risk of encouraging, not the postponement of trafficking in cocaine, but the commission of all types of lorries, such as robberies or robberies. The big traffickers, on the other hand, will change their activity. That is an important question. We therefore return to the starting point: we cannot accept that there are areas in France where 35% to 40% of young people are unemployed. The Government had launched the "one young person, one solution" plan, but it should also address the most difficult situations. This will require – that's all at stake – to inject a lot of public money, as it may be done in Marseilles. In all cases, the "cannabis transition" will not take place in three months, lifting all the sanctions to drain the revenues of the trafficking: it will take three, four, or even five years. It will be instructive to see how the Germans will deal with the issue, this country of 80 million inhabitants also having areas of poverty and difficult suburbs and being confronted with all the related issues affecting France. Thus, while it cannot be said that the legalization of cannabis poses no risk of collateral effects in terms of delinquency, we already have a situation of endemic delinquency and ultraviolence. We must therefore act in one way or another.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u41	We have finished the first part of the debate. On behalf of all of you, I thank our three guests for their presence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u42	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u43	The meeting was resumed. I am pleased to welcome Mrs Sarah El Haïry, Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement, who joins us in the second part of this debate and to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u44	Before I begin my remarks, I would like to thank the Libertés et territoires Group for proposing that this necessary and useful debate be held in a very peaceful framework, as well as for the quality of the work carried out by several parliamentarians for almost two years now. I am of course thinking of Jean-Baptiste Moreau or Robin Reda, but also of all the members of the information mission, who have conducted almost a hundred hearings and produced a report whose quality and density make a key document, which will fuel our debates. We are gathered today to discuss the legalization of cannabis. Beyond being a major social issue, it is a topic on which it is difficult not to have an opinion or even a conviction. Unfortunately, it sometimes accommodates a lack of nuances, although the quality of parliamentary work makes it possible in part to remedy this state of affairs. Beyond sometimes vague opinions or firm convictions, there are facts and above all a finding: that cannabis use is a real public health problem. The figures mentioned in support of the legalization of cannabis are, I believe, well known to all. They were recalled during the first part of this high-quality round table. As regards, for example, the prevalence of cannabis use in the general population, particularly high in our country, France had in 2019 more than 5 million consumers, 1.5 million regular consumers and more than 900000 daily consumers. The latter are considered to be likely to have problematic use of this product. Recent results, however, contradict the widespread and widespread belief that the level of cannabis use continues to increase. In fact, the distribution of usage frequencies during the year has not changed since 2014 and the proportion of regular use appears even to be slightly decreasing, from 3.6% in 2017 to 3.2% in 2020. The observations are also very different according to the age groups considered: while use is increasing slightly among adults over 35 years of age, the decline since 2014 among young people aged 18 to 25 is confirmed. As a result, cannabis has become less and less popular over generations, since the mid-1980s. That is also why, as Secretary of State for Youth, I have a very special look at this issue: the previous discussions have highlighted the need to have a vision, to formulate proposals and, above all, to act on this issue. The French Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictive Trends (OFDT) showed that while the consumption of 16-year-olds in France remained one of the highest in Europe in 2019, it experienced the continent's largest decline between 1999 and 2019. We must therefore clearly define what we are talking about. Cannabis is a drug whose harmful nature to human health is clearly established in the entire international scientific literature. Its danger is increased for adolescents and young adults, because their brains, whose maturation is not completed before the age of 25, are particularly likely to be affected by the consumption of this product. In the face of this public health issue, as important in terms of education as it is in terms of social and occupational integration, we all aim at the same objective: to reduce risks and prevent entry into consumption as soon as possible. Our will is to ensure that this product is consumed as little as possible in France and that its use is not trivialized. There is also a need to tackle the various criminal networks that hide behind what is commonly known as petty trafficking. This issue is inextricably linked to the voluntary prevention policy we are pursuing. The Government acts on both supply and demand, at the same time and with the same efforts. In this perspective, the national plan to mobilize against addictions 2018-2022 includes various measures, some of which are particularly strong. All the levers are mobilised, in particular the strengthening of prevention, health and social care – two aspects that cannot be separated – the development of multidisciplinary research or the fight against trafficking. These measures go hand in hand with maintaining the prohibition. Some Members, including members of the Libertés et Territoires Group, who are at the origin of this debate, advocate state control over the sale of cannabis for non-therapeutic purposes – not to say recreational. But such a proposal can, in our view, have a counterproductive effect. In the work carried out upstream or in the various reports which have been submitted, there has also been a discussion of the feedback from foreign experiences. With regard to the American example, studied by the French Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictive Trends, the results, contrasting, do not suggest the effectiveness of a change in legal status, either to reduce the level of consumption or to reduce crime. There has been an increase in the prevalence of adult use, or even the emergence of new health problems, including intoxication associated with poorly controlled consumption of edible or increasingly concentrated THC products. More specifically, with regard to the impact on young people, there is, of course, a real decrease in use in the countries concerned, but this has yet to be confirmed in the context of the high level of standardisation of the product, induced inter alia by its legalisation. The share of minors who consider cannabis use to be low risk increased after legalization in states such as Colorado or Washington. With regard to the impact on public order, legalization has certainly allowed for a greater redeployment of police and judicial action to control operations, and some consumers are now provided with an official network. However, the impact on crime still appears marginal. The Government follows with particular attention the Canadian experience, which is often cited by the proponents of legalization in Europe or France. The Quebec authorities themselves have published a report on the first years of the implementation of legalization. It says that the use is declining among adolescents, who, I say, are not concerned with legal access to the product. I would add that legalisation has been accompanied by a very proactive prevention policy for young people. We are also pursuing such a policy, which gives results, as the figures show. However, in Quebec, there is also a particularly significant increase in adult consumption from the age of 18, while access to the legal product is only permitted from the age of 21. The much stronger social acceptability thus reduces the perception of risks, a consequence which we believe is worrying. You are also aware that the exclusion of minors from access to legal cannabis may not be well accepted, as is the case with the ban on the sale of tobacco and alcohol to minors, to which the Government remains particularly committed. The Government has not chosen the legalization of cannabis in France, but rather the rather clear and consistent legalization of the prevention of use, the restoration of the credibility of a protective penal ban and the fight against trafficking. Our objective is prevention, i.e. to prevent a person from settling in repeated and problematic uses, but also to identify these uses as soon as possible in order to effectively orient the consumer towards the most appropriate care possible. The Prevention Priority Plan and the National Plan of Mobilization against Addictions 2018-2022 also provide for actions to support this choice. France has powerful tools to finance the prevention of addictions, the most striking example being the tobacco fund, which became, at the end of 2019, the anti-addiction fund, with a very large budget of more than 120 million euros. These preventive measures are given priority by schools, universities and all local actors linked to young people who are inseparable from prevention policy. A strategy for the deployment of psychosocial skills development programmes on a very large scale is also being developed. These programmes, which have been evaluated, provide major results in terms of consumption, school climate or educational success of students. It is known that addictions, whatever they may be, are likely to lead to school drop-out and can have dramatic social consequences. As you have seen, in the second half of 2021 we also launched a large three-pronged communication campaign to inform about risks. We also raise awareness among professionals who are in contact with young people, primarily health professionals, whose work with patients is particularly effective because it is based on a valuable bond of trust. The dissemination of early intervention strategies enables other professionals in contact with young people to identify problematic uses and to take them into account in accompanying and, where appropriate, referral to more specialised structures, which provide a protective environment for young people by putting away incentives to use psychoactive substances. It is therefore necessary to promote better the support and support mechanisms offered to young people because they are still too little or too little known to their entourage but also, more broadly, to the general public who can use them for any issue or difficulty related to the use of addictive products or drugs. In France, consumption among young people, although still extremely high, has been declining continuously for some 20 years, demonstrating that public action, particularly in the area of prevention, can be effective in reducing the use of young people, without the need for a return to the protective ban. There is no evidence at this stage that legalizing recreational use would lead to advances in public health, including a decline in consumption and public safety. Moreover, such a decision could, we fear, further trivialize this product, enhance its accessibility and create a positive perception of cannabis among young people. However, it is known that this type of representation has a significant impact on consumption. By making a drug acceptable, cool, picturesque or poetic, one may lose sight of the fact that it is a drug, that it therefore presents a risk of addiction and that this phenomenon unfortunately remains a social scourge against which one must fight.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u45	We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the duration of the questions, as well as the duration of the answers, is limited to two minutes and that there is no right of reply. Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u46	In the preamble, I thank you for your presence, Madam Secretary of State, even if we were waiting for the Minister of the Interior, who did not wish to answer questions from national representation about her own responsibilities, particularly in the context of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union. On the issue of cannabis, we know Mr. Darmanin's martial postures, his outrages and lies, for example, when he explains that the countries that have legalized are going back on their decision, which is totally wrong. Many governments in Europe note that France is taking a political stance that goes against their own. This position, which is unique in the European Union, is, as we are saying at the moment, a pain in the way of the consumer's personal choices and restricts fundamental freedoms without responding at all to the need for the protection of our citizens. That's the reality. Prohibition does not seem to be sufficient for the Government. The ban on CBD hemp flower had to be added to the paranoia on 30 December, thus insulting European case law and millions of consumers. That's the reality. The repressive postures are incomprehensible, hypocritical and do not take the opinion of the specialists into account – we heard them again earlier. You welcome the conclusions of the parliamentary mission on the use of cannabis, voted unanimously by its members, including those of your majority. However, the Government does not seem to find them useful at all. In Europe, France's prohibitionist and moralist policy is an exception. Portugal, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands: all our border countries adopt the only way that counts, legalization. Our country is isolated when our President treats supporters of the legalization of irresponsibles and good-thinkers. Irresponsible, Olaf Scholz and his coalition in Germany? Madam Secretary of State, will you succeed in convincing all of your counterparts, one by one, to reconsider their political choice with regard to cannabis? Will you impose on all other European countries an ultra-repressive hard line, against the current? In concrete terms, tomorrow, when Germany has legalised, what will happen if a German family, going on holiday, crosses our country to go to Spain with, in its luggage, CBD flowers banned in France and a few grams of cannabis resin? Will this family be able to cross our country without being worried? Will she be arrested? Will there be a difference with the legislation applied to our citizens? In short, I would remind you that we are part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u47	Mr President, I know that your commitment to the legalization of cannabis is not a dogmatic position or position because I remember that the bill you tabled was co-signed by Members of several parliamentary groups. This proves that this question requires a calmed debate which, for sure, cannot go only through dogmatic postures or viewpoints. The position of the French government against the legalization of cannabis is well known to our European partners. All Member States are bound by the same international treaties – I am of course thinking of the Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. They are subject to the same Community law, none of which derogates from it. Unlike other countries, which you have cited, which have decriminalized or legalized cannabis, we have chosen not to depart from these texts. With regard to the new regulation applicable to hemp plants in France, in particular the exploitation of the CBD you mentioned, we will be presenting a new regulatory framework within the group responsible for directing and managing the work of the European Council on drugs, the horizontal group on drugs (GHD). This will provide additional insight.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u48	Mrs Nicole Dubré-Chirat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u49	The use of medical cannabis, a common practice in 20 European countries, has been the subject of a two-year experiment since March 2021 in France, where many healthcare professionals and patients called for it. The launch of this experiment, which represents an important first step, was very much expected by the actors of the agricultural world who see it as the possibility of establishing a French chain of production and processing of hemp for therapeutic cannabis. The productions used are now imported since they are prohibited in France despite European regulations. With a view to a generalisation of experimentation and to facilitate the installation of a French production chain, the ANSM, the Agence nationale de sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé, set up a temporary scientific committee to decide at the end of 2021 on traceability, the necessary controls related to plant cultivation and the pharmaceutical quality criteria. In July 2021, France submitted to the European Commission a draft order authorizing the production and marketing of cannabidiol, a decree to be followed. The French industrialists concerned await this formalisation in order to produce therapeutic hemp and thus avoid its importation when we have the necessary skills and know-how. This would also allow for further control of the quality of production and processing. The company DelleD, located in my constituency, proposes to participate in this production and its transformation into therapeutic cannabis; It has already launched the construction of a 10000 square meters site for this purpose, with the aim of making Angers the capital of the specialized plant, in association with INRAE – the National Research Institute for Agriculture, Food and the Environment –, Angers Technopole and Agrocampus Ouest. Another company that you know, Madam Secretary of State, Boiron, located in the Pays de la Loire and specialized in homeopathy, is ready to mobilise its know-how as a pharmaceutical laboratory and its well-established network to ensure the distribution, as part of the diversification of its activities. Madam Secretary of State, can you tell me what the Government's plans are for the generalization of therapeutic cannabis after the experimental phase? Have you received the proposals of the committee set up by ANSM? Finally, can you specify the date of publication of the decree which will allow the emergence of an innovative agro-health sector?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u50	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u51	I believe that this experiment represents a real step forward and that it is necessary. It allows the actors concerned, who have a great deal of expectations in this field, to project themselves in the future. The framework for experimentation is defined by the Ministry of Health; Its implementation and operational pilotage are assured, you recalled, by the ANSM. This phase will of course make it possible to judge the opportunity to generalize the use of cannabis-based medicines in France. The evaluation will be carried out on the basis of the results expected in September 2023, in accordance with Article 43 of the Social Security Financing Act for 2020. On 6 December last year, so very recently, an assessment was made of the rise in the charge of the experiment: more than 1150 patients are included and more than 840 are followed very precisely according to indicators, patients being divided among those suffering from neuropathic pain, those suffering from painful spasticities linked among others to multiple sclerosis, others coming from epilepsy, oncology or from palliative situations of which we know how painful they are to live. To answer your question even more precisely, I should like to inform you that the temporary scientific committee has not yet submitted its proposals, and that the decree which is to create the chain of cultivation and production of cannabis for medical use in France is currently being adopted by the Council of State pending the decision of the Constitutional Council, in the context of the procedure of priority question of constitutionality (QPC) on the legal basis of the classification of poisonous substances. This decision is expected this month. Of course, it will make it clearer. The aim is to consider, at the end of the experiment and in the event of a decision to generalise the use of cannabis-based medicines, the supply of medicines manufactured on the national territory. If, for some reason, this generalization was not decided, the medical cannabis plant producers will have the opportunity to export this raw material abroad.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u52	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u53	In Europe, we have the impression that France represents the village of the Refractory Gauls: indeed, as my colleague François-Michel Lambert pointed out, everywhere else we legalise, except here. Policies like scientists almost unanimously point out that what matters with cannabis is not to forget that it is a public health issue. Therefore, is it not time to change the paradigm in France and to entrust the management of addiction and cannabis in general to the Ministry of Health instead of making it a problem of justice? Portugal, which made this choice 20 years ago, now has sufficient setbacks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u54	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u55	I believe that we must first and foremost fight against addictions, whatever they may be, because we know their social consequences. In their management, we cannot limit ourselves to the law enforcement aspect alone or to the public health aspect alone. Today, it is the Ministry of Health that is responsible for managing and combating the consequences of cannabis addiction through various measures – I am thinking of Drugs Info Service and awareness campaigns. This problem is at the heart of all inter-ministerial actions. Thus, when I deal with youth-related issues, it is obviously in collaboration with the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, which is working with us to raise awareness of addictions in schools. You mentioned the case of Portugal. It turns out that the increase in consumption is real and that there is no decrease in associated delinquency. I do not believe that at the end of this debate it is necessary to oppose fight and trafficking, prevention and management of the consequences of addiction. On the contrary, it is a matter of basing itself on such work as the parliamentary report which distinguishes between different uses – therapeutic or recreational – of cannabis and its derivatives. It is by having the most nuanced debate possible that we will allow real progress, especially for young people. For the time being, there are still too many tragedies: last year, for example, there were more than 500 deaths on the road due to the consumption of narcotics. It is by fighting their consequences that we will fight more widely against addictions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u56	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u57	My question deals with a major point in the debate: therapeutic cannabis. It is a subject of public health policy that refers, for patients, to an extremely strong expectation. Unanimously voted by the national representative more than two years ago, the testing of therapeutic cannabis was to include 3000 patients. Eight months after its launch, the figures are not good: you spoke, Madam Secretary of State, of only about 1,000 people – I have the figure of 870 – because many diseases have been excluded from the experiment. However, it provided us with an opportunity to catch up with other European countries, many of my colleagues reminded us: I am thinking of Spain, Portugal, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Germany. But France is poaching on the issue of cannabis, whether it is recreational or not. While therapeutic cannabis is expected by a large number of patients, the conditions for including patients in the experiment are too restrictive, many elements encourage them to boil this product, and doctors do not rush to propose it, being not trained in France to prescribe it. Officials spend their time deconstructing the image of cannabis, while on a global scale, therapeutic cannabis is recognized and in Europe, it has enabled major advances. You have, like the Minister of Solidarity and Health, met the patients concerned; I myself met Bertrand Rambaud, founder of the Union francophone des cannabinoids en médecine. I repeat, expectations are high. In despair, some patients obviously get treatment elsewhere and find themselves confronted with the sanction of French law. As my colleague François-Michel Lambert said, what will be done when the Germans travel through France to go to Spain or elsewhere by carrying recreational or therapeutic cannabis with them? For us, the Socialist and related groups, the observation is clear: we must move forward on the subject, the sick are waiting for it, it is urgent. But it is too late for France to be a leader in this field.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u58	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u59	Madam Member of Parliament, the Government shares your point of view. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health hopes that testing on therapeutic cannabis will be as broad as possible. But it has been more difficult to achieve the planned objectives because the health crisis has slowed down the deployment of the system. The wait for patients is real, as we know, and in order to accelerate the rise of the device, a number of healthcare professionals – 427 doctors, as well as hospital or official pharmacists – have been trained through ambitious actions. The most important thing is to meet the needs and expectations of patients based on the department's willingness to draw conclusions from the experiment. We must not be discouraged by the fact that the number of patients integrated into the device is lower than expected: I repeat, this figure is due to a health situation which has slowed down the deployment of the experiment. But I am convinced, because it is the will of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, that the delay will be caught up as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u60	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u61	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the Group of the European People's Party, of which I am a member, has a shared position on the subject. I shall therefore speak only on behalf of those of my colleagues who, like me, support the legalization of cannabis. In our view, it is a decision not only on public health but also on public order. I did not participate in the fact-finding mission several times mentioned and whose quality was praised, and I do not have a fine knowledge of the subject that many colleagues have. Unfortunately, therefore, I have only the approach of a simple citizen who sees the damage caused by the use of cannabis, especially in some cities. But I, who am in rural areas, can tell you that our small villages are also places of traffic and underground economy in this area. The speakers in the first part of the debate provided useful insights, even though they did not have the ability not to lead to an adversarial debate. But it may be because there are fewer and fewer contradictors on this subject. A consensus seems to emerge in France and, as has been repeated several times, many European countries have already chosen the path of legalisation. One cannot sum up the fact of being in favour of legalizing cannabis to an emotional position: thus, the three speakers were purely rational. The progressive legalization of cannabis can therefore be adhered to in a very rational manner. There was a strong emphasis on prevention and education. You yourself, Madam Secretary of State, cited Quebec, which has managed to reduce consumption through effective prevention measures. I would therefore like to know what place the Government intends to give to a true policy of prevention, knowing that in France it is little developed in the health system and should be much more developed. Moreover, how can we organise the step-by-step approach suggested by the speakers, so that France can make a transition, without going directly from illegality to the legality of cannabis use, in order to move towards a more European model?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u62	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u63	The prevention and management of the risks of cannabis use is a necessity, and in order to do so, we must already free the floor. This is why high-quality, soothing debates are held that allow, without misconceptions, to evoke the consequences of cannabis use – consequences that are very different in a teenager and an adult aged 45 years, whose use is not the same, which was recalled in the first part of the debate. With regard to education for consumers, there is first and foremost school, as it is the place where young people can have access to information on all known risks, including health. This information must be deployed at different levels. This is why the work we are undertaking is based on the knowledge and expertise of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health, but also on the knowledge and expertise of several associative structures that are closest to young people. It's about getting out of the false-likers to free the word about addiction situations, because when you talk about it, you can fight against it. All this is a matter of prevention, which must be implemented from an early age and within families, thanks to the health actors who constitute the first circle of confidence of young people. Within this framework, we deploy a wide range of awareness-raising mechanisms in simple forms, such as display in places frequented by young people, or more complex, such as actions and campaigns with associations, especially during festive times. There are several types of consumption: in particular, it can be regular or punctual. These approaches are part of the more global fight against all addictive products that can hurt a part of the youth – I recall that it is mainly about targeting adolescents and some children since consumption can start very early. The report already mentioned proposes a fairly broad vision. Of course, it raises the issue of legalization, but it also deals with the framework of production, distribution and public health priorities. The quality of the work carried out is very real, and we are living a key stage of the debate: the fact that the priority of public health is a major element of it binds us in a common approach, regardless of the objective or the path to be taken.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u64	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u65	Although it is a pleasure to be with you all the time, Madam Secretary of State, I regret the absence of the Minister of the Interior because we would have had the opportunity to talk to her about our information report, of which he obviously did not get to know. Together with my two co-rapporteurs, Mrs Caroline Janvier and Mr Ludovic Mendes, we had the opportunity to present it to the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, but not to the Minister of the Interior. This would probably have prevented the drafting of a decree on the CBD which is absolutely not in conformity with European law because, not only will it prohibit the sale of the flower, but it will also prevent any creation of a French sector – which was the initial wish of the President of the Republic. This decree is null and void to me. All this is a pity because it involves a number of advances: it allows in particular to exploit the flower, unlike the previous texts; it sets a maximum THC rate of 0.3%, which makes it possible to develop certain products. However, the ban on the sale of the flower and leaf will prevent the creation of a French sector. However, appeals have been filed – I think their authors will succeed, because the decree is not in accordance with European law. More generally, contrary to what is repeated on television sets or in many interviews, our report does not recommend legalization for all or advertising campaigns on four-by-three-metre panels in all the streets of France. It is a question of legalizing in a framework and, of course, of providing for a ban on minors, since we know the dangers on the brains in training. As you have said, Madam Secretary of State, examples such as that of Canada show that state-controlled legalization, whether in terms of prices or the nature of products, reduces the consumption of minors, does not explode the consumption of majors, and reduces a number of public safety and health problems by dismantling networks that are deprived of much of their resources. As a result of legalization, the state can take over to deal with a public safety and public health problem, while prohibition, which has been practised in all countries for thirty years, fails everywhere. I have the scientific spirit: the same causes that produce the same effects, the policy that fails everywhere will continue to fail regardless of the parameters that you will change.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u66	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u67	I have read with great interest the report you have submitted. You have referred in particular to the position of the Ministry of the Interior: I know that your report contains a number of proposals and recommendations to put an end to trafficking and to promote the inclusion of former traffickers. I am aware that you have had an ecosystem approach, if I may say so, from the fight for public health to the concerns of the various actors. The decree you mentioned was presented to the European Commission on 20 July. It has not been returned, or rather we have had no specific information about the sale of the flower or loose leaf. The prohibition is imposed with reference to public health grounds of various kinds. First, there is the desire not to allow consumers to incorporate flowers or cannabis leaves into smoking cigarettes, as this would be contrary to current tobacco control policies. There is then a desire not to favour the sale of flowers or leaves in the form of herbal teas, a sale that would be conducive to the use of inappropriate health claims. However, the French authorities wanted to open the market by allowing the use, you recalled, of the flower and the leaf by extracting the active ingredients incorporated in the composition of the various authorised products, without, however, allowing consumers easy access to parts of the plant which can be used in a way contrary to public health interests. This prohibition is mainly justified on grounds of public order, since, in order to preserve the operational capacity of the internal security forces in the fight against narcotics, it is necessary to be able to discriminate against products simply in order to determine whether or not they fall within the scope of the criminal policy pursued in this context.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u68	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u69	Originally, I had no convictions on the subject. Let us say that my cultural inheritance in this matter was both open and somewhat conservative because of the fear that this subject arouses for the younger generations. I am elected from a fairly bourgeois constituency, even very bourgeois in certain places. I was struck by the fact that those who repeatedly questioned me on the subject in this constituency were not parents or young people who wanted more free access to renewed recreational activities, but parents who thought they were protected in their neighbourhoods, in private or public schools, those who thought they could resist the pressure by putting their children away and away. They came to me to tell me: in fact, it's everywhere, it's all the time, and we can't. There are commissioned sellers at the door of each establishment, especially the most protected ones. No one can resist a Tupperware network present in every kitchen. These parents therefore asked me to push the idea of a regulated approach with the ability of the state to intervene more effectively. I considered the work of my parliamentary colleagues to be a significant contribution to a better understanding of the subject. I see the immediate hostility in the opinion; I see the difficulty of appropriation of the subject, but I don't see a plan B. When I speak of Plan B, I am not just thinking of repression, but, as close as possible to colleges and high schools, of the state's ability to put an end to this sale of children, young to young. Under the current conditions, I don't see how we can do it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u70	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u71	I fully agree with you that today the sale of cannabis is everywhere, in urban as well as rural areas, in the popular classes or in the more bourgeois classes. It is not a phenomenon reserved for a social class and which would pose problems in the working-class neighbourhoods alone, as one might imagine. Not at all! We meet him everywhere, and he particularly affects a fairly young age group. Selling in the vicinity of schools is now a real scourge. The worst thing is that it is done between comrades, between young people who belong, almost, to the same ecosystem. There is a specific programme within the Ministry of National Education and its Regalian Square, with the presence and support of the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of the Interior. It aims to combine the security of the surroundings of schools, and the prevention and awareness of pupils from the earliest age – from the college as this is necessary. Beyond these issues of prevention and public order around schools, places which it is extremely important to protect, there is the problem of fighting a new scourge – in any case, in my view: the use of social networks in these circumstances. Today, with Instagram, we have access to a Uber Eats from the sale of narcotics. This changes the way we fight against the spread of cannabis, hence the need to protect young people first and foremost, because cannabis has consequences for their health – I believe that this need is felt by all, the information report refers to it as well as the work of the Libertés et territoires group. To protect young people, the key words are prevention, awareness and maximum information. I also understand the need to deploy new forms in this area, because, although the decrease in consumption is real for adolescents, it is still far too high for adolescents and children alike.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u72	For the last question, I call Mrs Fabienne Colboc.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u73	I would like to ask you about the marketing of Sativex, a drug based on cannabis derivatives, to relieve severe contractures in patients with multiple sclerosis. He obtained his French marketing authorisation in 2014. In October of the same year, the High Health Authority (HAS) recommended that 15% be reimbursed by social security. However, the Economic Committee for Health Products (CEPS) and the laboratory are unable to reach agreement on the selling price. As a result, this medicine is still not available in a pharmacy, although it is already marketed in 17 European countries. This situation is detrimental to our fellow citizens with multiple sclerosis, whose suffering could be eased through Sativex. Madam Secretary of State, could you tell us what is the status of the negotiations on the placing of this medicine on the market?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u74	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u75	So that I can answer your very technical question as fully as possible, Madam Member, you will allow me to read the answer sent by the Ministry of Solidarity and Health. The Agence nationale de sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé (ANSM) has set up a temporary scientific committee for the follow-up of the French experiment on the medical use of cannabis, launched on 26 March last for a period of two years. The committee meets monthly since the start of the experiment; But as far as Sativex is concerned, the negotiations, as you pointed out, have not yet been concluded. As a first step, the price could not be set between the CEPS and the laboratory, and the laboratory did not return to the committee for negotiation. This deprives patients of a medicine they need; We deplore him. I hope that the mobilization of the ministry and the various actors will allow the negotiations to reopen. Of course, the goal remains to relieve patients and families as much as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Let me remind you that we are staying in the Lamartine room for the next debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u77	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u78	[[The meeting was suspended at 17.00 and resumed at 17.00, with Mrs Laetitia Saint-Paul in the chair.]]
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u79	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u80	The next item is the debate on "Review of France's actions to ensure respect for international law, the case of Western Sahara. This debate was called for by the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left. At the latter's request, he is held in the Lamartine room so that outside personalities can be interviewed. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. We will begin with a round table in the presence of invited persons, lasting one hour, and then, after hearing an introductory statement from the Government, we will proceed with a new sequence of questions and answers, also lasting one hour. Questions and answers will be limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. For the first phase of the debate, I welcome Mr Oubi Bouchraya Bachir, representative of the Frente Polisario to the European Union, Mr Gilles Devers – who will join us in a few moments –, a lawyer at the Lyon bar, and Mrs Claude Mangin, wife of Naâma Asfari, Saharawi activist detained in Morocco. I shall now give the floor to our guests for a statement of about five minutes each. I call Mr Oubi Bouchraya Bachir, representative of the Frente Polisario to the European Union.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u81	First of all, Madam President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, in particular to the Member of Parliament Jean-Paul Lecoq, for this initiative. Given the short time available, I will have to limit my intervention to the following point. Since 13 November 2020, the war has unfortunately resumed in Western Sahara and the ceasefire has collapsed, after thirty years of waiting, bringing us back to square one. There are already worrying repercussions on the horizon, threatening security and stability in the region. Who is responsible for such a situation? Is France involved, since today's debate is about its respect for international law? Indeed, France had not only failed to comply with its obligations under international law, but had also clearly supported and encouraged Morocco to rebel against international legality. Both inside and outside the Security Council, France supported Morocco in its rejection of the referendum, defended Morocco's unilateral proposal on autonomy and acted to block any effort that would have allowed the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO) to monitor the human rights situation. It is still France, mainly France and perhaps only France, which acts as a leader within the European Union to circumvent the various decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU). Let me tell you that in Western Sahara, as in most countries in the immediate neighbourhood, we are more than dissatisfied with the unchanging position of France that favours Morocco at the expense of the interests of other countries in the region. This copying put Morocco on the path of arrogance, leading it to be intransigent, extremist and belligerent, and to bring the conflict back to military confrontations. Perhaps he even rubbishes plans that could lead the entire region to an irreparable situation. France is responsible for this situation and instability will only end if it balances its position. Who is responsible for the failure of the peace process? Certainly not the Frente Polisario, who knew from the start that there was a price to pay for peace. We paid our part of the bill very generously, sometimes taking significant risks. However, the other party did not intend to move forward with an iota. For example, we accepted the Baker Plan, approved by the Security Council in 2003, under which the Territory was to enjoy internal autonomy for a period of four to five years. It was to lead to a referendum of self-determination in which, in addition to the Saharawis, a large number of Moroccan settlers could also vote. Morocco rejected the plan a block and in detail. In April 2007, we submitted a seven-point offer containing guarantees for Morocco, in the event that the referendum would lead to the independence of the territory. We have even included the joint economic exploitation of wealth. Once again, Morocco rejected the offer a block and in detail. We wonder what kind of concessions Morocco wanted to engage in the peace process! Let him be given sovereignty over Western Sahara? We do not have this right and cannot grant it because it belongs to the Saharawi people, who are the exclusive holders of it. With regard to the so-called Moroccan proposal for autonomy, it is not a compromise solution, nor even a simple solution. Indeed, in addition to being in frontal opposition to international law, it is based on the assumption that sovereignty over Western Sahara belongs to Morocco, which is false. In order for Morocco to be entitled to grant or not to grant autonomy to Western Sahara, it must first have sovereignty over that territory. What is fundamentally at stake in this conflict is the determination of the final status of Western Sahara. In other words, it is a question of determining who has sovereignty over the territory. This proposal gives Morocco sovereignty prior to any genuine consultation of the Saharawi people. It is therefore a solution based on the concept of winner-loser: the winner in this case would be Morocco and the loser, the Polisario Front and, through it, the Saharawi people. The real compromise solution is one that is in line with law first and democracy then: it is the referendum solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u82	Claude Mangin, wife of a Saharawi political prisoner, French activist for the rights of the Saharawis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u83	I am Claude Mangin, a French citizen and human rights defender. I have been married for 18 years to Naâma Asfari, an activist for the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people, a right recognized by the United Nations. Naâma has been in arbitrary detention in Morocco for more than 11 years. He was abducted by Moroccan security forces on 7 November 2010 in Laâyoune. It was the eve of the dismantling, by the Moroccan armed forces, of a peaceful protest camp that gathered for a month more than 20,000 Saharans, men, women and children, gathered in 8,000 traditional tents in Gdeim Izik, 10 kilometres from the capital of Western Sahara. During this violent dismantling, there were reportedly eleven agents killed. Naâma, arrested the day before, was nevertheless accused of these murders and transferred to prison in Rabat with twenty-four other comrades. He was tortured and sentenced to 30 years in prison by the Rabat Military Court in 2013, on the basis of confessions extracted under torture – a sentence confirmed on appeal in 2017. His companions, arrested in the same case and sentenced to sentences ranging from twenty years to life, were also confirmed. These trials have been marred by numerous irregularities noted by the international observers present. On 15 November 2016, the UN Committee against Torture condemned Morocco for torture of Naâma Asfari. In its decision, the Committee asked Morocco to refrain from reprisals against the complainant and his family. This conviction restored his dignity to my husband and his companions but the reprisals against him and mine have not ceased: from 2010 to 2016, I was able to visit him regularly in his prison in Morocco but, since this conviction in 2016, I have been expelled five times without any justification. The second and third expulsions prevented me from being present at the appeal hearing. If I was able to see my husband again in January 2019, it was because, in order to alert the French Government about my flouted right of visit, I observed in April and May 2018 a thirty-day hunger strike at the town hall of Ivry-sur-Seine, our city of residence, whose name Naâma bears the title of citizen of honour. This unique visit in five years was achieved after very difficult negotiations between North Africa's sub-directorate at the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs, and the Moroccan Embassy. I was accused of speaking in autumn 2018 on the airwaves in Germany and Strasbourg in a church. Thus, I was prevented from presenting the situation of the prisoners of Gdeim Izik during an evening-debate in a church in Strasbourg by a commando of five, sent by the Moroccan consulate. The same consulate went so far as to take an action of protest against me to the bishopric. The visit, which took place three years ago under the auspices of the National Human Rights Council, a body appointed by the king, was very challenging. Constantly monitored by dozens of men, I was denounced to the French authorities because I met the Saharawi coordinator responsible for relations with the Saharawi families and a member of the office of the Moroccan Association for Human Rights (AMDH). On this occasion, the online media on 360.ma published a defamatory article where I am called a Christian, wife of the Sahrawi killer Naâma Asfari. Having understood that the situation was not normalized, I tried another visit six months later, in July 2019, but I was expelled for the fifth time. I have challenged this ban on entry to Moroccan courts. My application was rejected on the grounds that I constituted a disorder of public order and a danger to the internal and external security of the State. In November 2020, the Court of Cassation finally sentenced my husband to 30 years in prison. What about my visitation rights for the next nineteen years? It was finally revealed that my phone had been infected with the Pegasus spy software, with 128 connections between October 2020 and July 2021. On this occasion, I understood how Morocco had been able to be informed of the holding of numerous militant or private events, which I did not explain until then. Despite her obligations to her nationals, of whom I am, and to her residents, including my husband, France has failed to ensure her protection role. The French consulate never intervened to oppose my expulsions. France does not support us in our fight for the recognition of the political character of Gdeim Izik prisoners. By playing the game of Morocco in this way, France shows its support for it. She is complicit in a State that has been found guilty of torture on my husband's person by not asking for the application of this conviction and by allowing Morocco to retaliate against a French national. I call for the implementation of the UN decisions and the release of all these prisoners arbitrarily detained for eleven years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u84	Gilles Devers, a lawyer at the bar in Lyon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u85	As a lawyer for the Frente Polisario, I had the immense honour to plead the cause of the Saharawi people before the CJEU in Luxembourg. We are also taking important action before the African Court of Human and Peoples' Rights. Before making a few brief remarks, I would like to express my complete incomprehension with regard to the fate of the Saharawi people. This people, who wage a strictly legalist fight for respect for international law through legal action, is the subject of ostracism, repression and an absolutely implausible denial, when others, who follow other paths, are finally better considered. Asking for respect for the law and relying on the judges would make us enemies? The Court of Justice of the European Union handed down in 2016 a decision of great importance which clearly and definitively held that Morocco has no sovereignty over the territory of Western Sahara. This judgment has repercussions for European states and European companies operating in this territory. This judgment is in line with the opinion of the International Court of Justice in 1975. The legal basis is therefore sound. As a lawyer, I know that our duty is to respect court decisions and that a government has a duty to support them, a fortiori when it is as involved as the French government is. In theory, France acknowledges the 2016 judgment and Morocco's lack of sovereignty over Western Sahara, mentioned in the extension of the Association Agreement between the European Union and Morocco, in a particular provision, in the submissions filed before the Court. But there are his public statements, deeply shocking and disrespectful of the decisions of law, his obscene demonstrations of friendship and proximity to Morocco, the very day that he declares that this decision of justice is only propaganda, that nothing has been judged and that he remains sovereign over the Sahara and that Moroccan sovereignty over the Sahara is in principle. I therefore ask the question: is it possible to expect from the French government a language of public truth on the subject, for the benefit of everyone? It is no longer a matter of rendering justice in this area, but simply of calling for compliance with the 2016 judgment. My second observation is more circumstantial. When we talk about borders, we talk about trade, about customs duties. There's a customs debt. For decades, companies have benefited from the de facto application of the principle of Morocco's sovereignty, to which the Court ended its 2016 judgment. As a result, these enterprises must compensate the Saharawi people. The calculation is quite simple, the figures being published by the European Commission: an additional 6.6 million profits are made each year by four companies based in Perpignan, which account for 95% of imports into the European market. With the prescription rule, that's 16.5 million to recover tomorrow. Why can't we get that money back, detained without any legal basis? The customs debt exists: in the name of what do we decide not to recover it? My third comment will be on agricultural exports. The whole world wants to come to this market: very well, but there are conditions to be met, including marketing standards. Of these, one is particularly important for agricultural production: the origin of the products. Indeed, when you buy a coffee maker or a camera, it doesn't matter whether it was made here or there; But for an agricultural product, origin counts. Again, compliance with the 2016 judgment must be ensured, even if the extension of the association agreement is still the subject of a dispute. On-site checks are carried out by Morocco Foodex, a Moroccan public establishment responsible for certifying the origin of products from Western Sahara. Will France continue to accept this certification by a Moroccan company for a long time? According to Eurostat statistics, there are no longer any imports from Western Sahara. I will add one more comment. Each of the parties thinks she's going to win this trial. We will see, but I am convinced that we have very good arguments and that once again we will win against the French Government, against Europe, even if we would have preferred another way out. Has the French government planned to act with regard to importing companies, convinced that everything is going to go well and that they are going to break down on a judicial decision that will be final?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u86	We come to the questions. I invite all those who wish to speak to register with the management of the meeting. Each question will be immediately followed by its answer so that the discussions are as smooth as possible. The floor is open to Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq, for the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, at the initiative of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u87	I had planned to ask three questions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u88	Do it, Mr. Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u89	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your interventions, and to thank my group for putting this taboo issue of Western Sahara on the agenda. This enables three high-quality speakers, as you have seen, to explain how France's action to enforce international law is not up to its status as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council. The conflict in Western Sahara is totally unknown and unjustly dealt with. For many, it is only a conflict of independents, while the dispute between Morocco and Western Sahara is much more serious than that, and I would like to thank Mr. Oubi Bouchraya Bachir, representative in Brussels of the Frente Polisario and the Saharawi people, for coming back to his issues as well. My first question will therefore be addressed to him. The appointment last August of Mr Staffan de Mistura, previously United Nations Special Envoy to Syria, to the post of Personal Envoy of the United Nations Secretary-General in Western Sahara, has enabled the negotiation process to be reinvigorated. This appointment gives rise to much hope and expectation, as the personal envoys of the UN Secretary-General have the task of organising negotiations between the various parties to the conflict. I would like to hear from you, Mr. Ambassador, how you feel about this appointment and what it can bring, particularly as part of Mr. Staffan de Mistura's next trip to the site in mid-January. Since you represented the Frente Polisario in France from 2016 to 2020, I would like to know your feeling about the French position vis-à-vis the Front. Every time we ask the Foreign Minister about this conflict in committee, he invokes the famous theory of equidence. I would like you to tell us how you perceived, when you were carrying out your mission in Paris, this issue of equivalency and that you compared it to the current position in Brussels. My second question is also for you, Master Devers. You have just explained to us that in December 2016, the CJEU ruled that the Association Agreement between the European Union and Morocco did not apply to Western Sahara because of its international status. What are the concrete implications of this judgment for France? How will she implement it? Could you also come back to the question of labelling, by which you have finished your remarks? Indeed, it is important to elaborate more precisely on this complex subject, which also concerns the Palestinian question. This is even a major competition problem. In asking for the inclusion of the question of Western Sahara on our agenda, I did not imagine that I would be asked by the French producers of tomatoes and cucumbers who asked me on this occasion to mention the unfair competition of Western Sahara's production, since it was not subject to customs duties. This example shows the concrete implications of the illegal occupation of that territory. The judicial epic between the European Union and Morocco has taken a very important turn since the recognition of the status of the Saharawi territory. This is proof that the law must be respected, otherwise companies, including French companies, risk facing increasing legal uncertainty, which is obviously very bad for them and for their long-term investment projects. At the end of October, a Chinese phosphate company announced that it was permanently abandoning the exploitation of phosphate rocks in occupied Western Sahara, and it was only the last in a long list of companies from various countries that decided to leave that territory. These departures are increasing, both on land and on sea – fishing off the Saharawi coast is an important activity. Would you also like to come back to this issue quickly? Mrs Mangin, I would also like to speak with you and Mr Bouchraya Bachir about the situation of Saharan political prisoners. Could you go back to the way in which the Moroccan authorities violate your right of access and the role of France in this case? How many times have you called the Quai d'Orsay on this issue? What support did you receive? What steps have been taken? Why didn't France intervene as soon as you first expelled? Have you been contacted by the French authorities? What did the French consulate in Morocco tell you? Was your request to Morocco supported by France, by the French authorities on the spot? Finally, I would like to extend the debate to the human rights situation in the territories occupied by Morocco. Sultana Khaya is a young woman who chairs the League for the Defence of Human Rights and the Protection of Natural Resources in Boujdour, Morocco's occupied territory. She and her mother and sister have been under house arrest for a year without any trial. Their home undergoes regular incursions to destroy the family's personal belongings. She is regularly abused and sexually assaulted by Moroccan agents. How could France put pressure on Morocco to put an end to the intimidation and violence against peaceful Saharawi activists? In this regard, the work of the Association of Families of Prisoners and Disappeared Saharawis (AFAPREDESA) is fundamental. Could you, madam, who is familiar with this association, explain to us what its activities are?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u90	Mr Oubi Bouchraya Bachir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u91	Staffan de Mistura was appointed personal envoy of the UN Secretary-General in a particular context, marked by the resumption of the war in Western Sahara and the collapse of the peace process following the violation of the ceasefire agreement by Morocco. Our position is very clear: the appointment of a personal envoy is not an objective in itself. We have had many of them in the past, with remarkable profiles, like James Baker, former US Secretary of State, or Horst Köhler, former President of the Federal Republic of Germany. The problem has never been linked to the personality or appointment of a personal envoy; it is a matter for the Security Council itself. The previous personal envoys eventually resigned for two main reasons: first, the Security Council's propensity to hide behind their appointment to wash its hands; Secondly, the erroneous and irresponsible approach – in which France participates – of managing the conflict rather than trying to resolve it. This attitude has gradually become synonymous with the consolidation of Morocco's occupation of our territory. The success of the mission of the Personal Envoy of the Secretary-General depends on the attitude of the members of the UN Security Council, mainly of France. If the Security Council changes its approach and realizes the seriousness of the situation prevailing in Western Sahara, but also in the Maghreb as a whole, we can move forward. The Security Council must make a commitment to that end in order to resolve the conflict. The solution is clear, and within its reach; It lies in one of the only agreements signed between the two parties to the conflict, the Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente Polisario: this is the 1991 United Nations-OAU (Organization of African Unity) settlement plan, which was adopted by the Security Council and is the result of a mission deployed to Western Sahara. With regard to the alleged equidistance displayed by the French Government in its relations with the two parties to the conflict, I can testify, for having been the representative of the Frente Polisario in Paris between 2016 and 2020, that the Quai d'Orsay has stopped any contact with the Frente Polisario since April 2017. Aware of the importance of the role that France can play in helping the parties reach a solution, we have tried several times to re-establish contact, but have always found the door closed. It seems to be a decision taken by the Quai d'Orsay. I see in this attitude the reflection of France's bias in favour of Morocco. By putting an end to its relations with one of the parties to the conflict, France itself excluded itself from any possibility of playing a role in its resolution. Immediately after my appointment to Brussels, I contacted European officials as a representative of Saharawi diplomacy to the European Union. I am regularly received by the foreign ministries of all European capitals, as are my colleagues in all the capitals of the world, including by permanent members of the Security Council. France is an exception: it reflects its alignment with the Moroccan position. France is part of the problem in Western Sahara, although we hope that it will begin to be part of the solution. It has the necessary assets, and must help to accompany the parties towards an outcome based on international law, in particular on the only two agreements signed so far by the protagonists: the 1991 UN-OAU settlement plan and the 1997 Houston agreement. We don't lose hope. With the resumption of war in Western Sahara and the region under tension, France is called upon to revise its position to seriously consider being part of the solution rather than the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u92	Gilles Devers has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u93	Let us guard against being confined to the litany that the two territories are separate and separate, and let us consider its consequences: let us deal with the question of customs and the origin of the goods, all of which are immediate legal, material and economic contingencies. The 2016 ECJ decision, to which more and more reference is made – without it having always been read – makes it clear that in this territory which is not Moroccan and which will never be, unless the people decide otherwise by referendum, there can be economic activity only with the consent of the people of Western Sahara. I do not express the view of the lawyer or the leaders of the Polisario Front: I simply read a court decision. The 2016 judgment introduced decolonization into European Union law; It is welcomed in this regard, and commented on in all journals. It implies that it is not up to the European Union or France to decide what is good for the development of the territory. Only the Saharawi people can do so. Moreover, when a visitor – why not a parliamentarian – wants to go to Laayoune or Dakhla, he does not ask for permission from the Polisario Front! The current situation therefore constitutes an irregularity with regard to the 2016 ECJ judgment, which is of considerable magnitude. After 2016 there was a desire to circumvent this decision. Since the two territories were considered to be separate, an extension of the association agreement was envisaged – Morocco obviously blocked its ears, because an extension meant that it was not at home. Morocco was led, through an international agreement, to admit that it was not sovereign in the territory of Western Sahara, since it signed the Treaty of Extension with the European Union. Is that good diplomacy? It's not my job to answer that question. Anyway, the trap is closing. For our part, we would prefer that there be no trap, and that discussions continue. This situation has concrete implications for customs. Thus, in the absence of tariff preferences, exports of agricultural products from Western Sahara would be liable to €6.6 million in customs duties per year. The well-documented briefs that we have published on this subject have never been called into question. In total, the amount to be recovered would amount to EUR 16.5 million. Why isn't he being claimed? Have any procedures been initiated, and have any efforts been made? Protocol 4 to the Association Agreement between the European Union and Morocco contains a clause on customs matters. Is it applied? These are specific questions on which we call for a reaction. We can already announce that Italian and Spanish agricultural unions are preparing to bring new proceedings, as they are crushed by this customs distortion. These procedures support us in our strict reading of the issue of customs debt. I come to another pragmatic consequence of the 2016 judgment: the labelling of products from Western Sahara. Again, in our briefs to the Court, we are content to decline the practice of the European Union. You mentioned Palestine, but we could also mention Cyprus or Transnistria, among other examples, as many areas of military occupation where territorial issues arise. France has perfect procedures to respond to them. We ask no more or less, for Western Sahara, than the equivalent of what is practiced with Palestine: a label bearing the mention "Moroccoan colony origin in Western Sahara". This is not our first battlehorse – we would prefer to regain control – but this is the solution we are seeking in the immediate future. We also call for the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) to carry out checks, to track down this fraud originally: consumers think they are buying products from Morocco, even though they come from Western Sahara. This is indeed a fraud at the origin: the law is not enforced, and the offences are patent. In conclusion, we are concerned about the progress of the trial, not for ourselves, but for the rule of law in general. The procedure is under way, and the decision is expected to take place in 2022 or 2023. We regret the lack of enthusiasm on the part of the Council of the European Union. All in all, the political decision is transferred to the court. It will be easy to argue, then, that everything has been done – up to an appeal to the Grand Chamber of the CJEU – that justice has rendered its decision and that it should be applied. It will be very hard for Morocco. Let it be very hard for the Moroccan leaders not to traumatize us too much, but the Saharawi people are very committed to maintaining friendly ties with the Moroccan people, and hope that the situation will be resolved through negotiation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u94	Mrs Claude Mangin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u95	You are asking me, Mr President, about the situation of political prisoners and about human rights in occupied Western Sahara. Political prisoners have been in poor health and continue to be persecuted for eleven years. As a result of torture, they suffer recurrent trauma. For the past two years, they have no longer had the right to receive visits from their families because of the covid. My husband is one of the prisoners of Gdeim Izik, this symbol of the great peaceful revolt of 2010 which became a trauma for Morocco: at the time, the Kingdom had believed to show the whole world that the Saharawi people did not exist, and that the Saharawis were Moroccan, like the Rifan Moroccans, for example. But the great gathering of Gdeim Izik proved that the Saharawi people did exist, and that it was necessary to count with him. My husband and I are the symbols of this situation. Knowing that I speak on behalf of these prisoners in most instances, I too am somewhat persecuted. Note that, following my complaint to the UN Committee against Torture, Morocco was convicted of torture against my husband. All this is heavy to wear. I have no answer from the French Government but silence, proof that the question is taboo not only in Morocco, but also in France – Western Sahara is one of the three taboo questions in Morocco, with the King and religion. When you go to Morocco for reasons related to Western Sahara, you are in an illegal situation. That's what I'm going through, whereas if I were married to a Moroccan imprisoned for another reason – drug trafficking, for example – I wouldn't be going through all these difficulties. I am therefore a victim of a political situation which refers to the question of the recognition of the sovereignty of the Saharawis in their territory of Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u96	Until 2016, I was received by the Embassy of France, but it was always to make me say everything possible from Morocco. However, from the time of Morocco's condemnation, it was over and I was never supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Consulate, except when I went on this thirty-day hunger strike. It is grave to have to go through this in order to be able to exist! As you know, indeed, for the Saharawi people, the only way to exist is to resist and the prisoners are there to show that the Saharawi cause still exists. As for the occupied territories, they are a real open prison. Since 2013, no foreigner who comes to meet Saharawis can enter and one can be expelled, as has even been the case for five Euro MPs. More than 300 people have been expelled from Western Sahara since 2013. Since the resumption of the fighting a year ago, in November 2020, it is even worse: human rights defenders and activists have absolutely no right to speak or to protest. Sultana, of which we have mentioned the case and which is an icon of the Saharan struggle in the occupied territories, is martyred, prevented from leaving her home for more than a year and attacked every day. Since the territory is forbidden to any foreign person, there is no image, no journalist can go there and it is therefore as if it did not exist. Unfortunately for the French government, the Saharawi people exist and we are here today to talk about them. France should simply allow the United Nations to expand MINURSO's mandate to include human rights monitoring. As you know, this is the only United Nations mission in the world whose mandate does not include this aspect. MINURSO, for example, which is present in Laayoune or Boujdour, where Sultana Khaya is located, has no power to describe what is happening in the occupied territories. On the other hand, associations supporting the Saharawi people are numerous in France, Europe and the world. There were more than 250 of them in the Geneva group, which alerted the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights every day. All the special mechanisms had been requested and all had condemned Morocco, for eleven years, for torture, for preventing lawyers from visiting Morocco, for arbitrary detention and for preventing access, the right to demonstrate and to speak. However, this does not lead to anything and the Saharawi people continue to suffer for the sole reason that they have been fighting for forty-five years now to be able to exist in their territory, as every people has the right to do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u97	I must ask you to be very concise now, because we have only a few minutes left to complete our debate. Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u98	Thank you, Mrs Mangin, master and Mr Ambassador, for enlightening a subject which was submitted to our debate by our colleague Jean-Paul Lecoq and which brings out a threefold issue at the level of both the Maghreb, the Sahel and the Mediterranean. The situation, which we cannot, of course, satisfy, is explosive. In the face of this status quo, my first question, of a general nature, is addressed to the three of you: what just, lasting and acceptable political solution for the parties should be debated to advance this issue? Master, you mentioned earlier an important action that would be pending before the African Court of Justice of Human and People's Rights. Could you tell us a little more? You have had very clear and far-sighted comments on the many facets of the situation. Do you think – and the question could also be addressed to the Ambassador – that this question of Western Sahara should be asked on the occasion of the presidency of the African Union, which a friendly country, Senegal, will soon be holding?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u99	Mr Oubi Bouchraya Bachir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u100	As far as the first question is concerned, I would first like to clarify one point. Indeed, in France and elsewhere, the media often portray the referendum solution as the position of the Polisario Front, although that is not true. Our position is very clear: we are in favour of independence, and that is why we proclaimed in 1976 the Saharan Arab Democratic Republic (SARD), which has been a full member of the OAU since 1984 and subsequently of the African Union. Morocco, for its part, supported the integration of the territory into the Kingdom. The referendum is the only intermediate compromise position between the positions of the two parties. Apart from the position of the Polisario for Independence and that of Morocco for the integration of the territory, the position of the United Nations and international legality, as well as the tradition of decolonization, provide for the original consultation of the people of the territory of Western Sahara through a referendum of self-determination. This compromise position remains the only reliable solution to this conflict. The modalities for implementing the referendum will be negotiated, but an agreement between the two parties was signed in 1991 and a supplementary agreement was signed in 1997 under the auspices of James Baker. With regard to the second question, relating to the Senegalese presidency of the African Union and Western Sahara, I would like to point out that, since the resumption of the war on that territory, the African Union has made a very clear statement: at its summit held in Addis Ababa in March 2021, the Peace and Security Council adopted a decision in which it invited the two member countries, the Saharan Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco, to engage in negotiations to reach a solution that respects in the clearest way the Charter of the African Union, in particular Article 4 concerning respect for the borders inherited from the colonial era, that is, the recognized borders for the DSAR and the Kingdom of Morocco. The following day, Morocco declared its categorical rejection of this decision unanimously adopted by all members. Western Sahara is the last colony in Africa and the African Union has spoken out. It has all the space to play a role in this regard, as the territory of Western Sahara, as well as the Kingdom of Morocco since 2017, are members of this regional organization.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u101	Gilles Devers has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u102	I will not sum up the proceedings before the African Court, which means that – I come back – the Frente Polisario is from the angle of international law. At the level of the European Union, it was he who chose the remedy by acting when he wanted to, as the main actor, while, in the African procedure, he was not at the origin of the appeal brought by private individuals. This is indeed an individual appeal from African citizens, but the Frente Polisario was asking itself the question of intervening to defend its cause. The case is therefore not of the same nature and concerns several African States at the time of Morocco's application for membership of the African Union. I agree with Mr Bouchraya Bachir's comments on the political richness of the case. These African countries come from decolonization, and although the dispute does not refer directly to it, it plays on historical aspects. We will see what position the judges will take. There is less case law before the African Court than before the Court of Justice or the International Court of Justice in The Hague, but this court works and allows us to defend the idea that the existence of that State is a historical fact and that it is not possible to welcome with open arms a State that defends the colonization of another's territory and denies the legacy of decolonization of Africa.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u103	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u104	Western Sahara has been a territory occupied militarily by Morocco since 1975. According to the United Nations, it was an autonomous territory where the decolonization process had not been completed. This is also, to date, the official position of France and the European Union, as well as of the International Court of Justice, and it was until recently the position of the United States, until Donald Trump recognized Morocco's full sovereignty over Western Sahara in exchange for the restoration of diplomatic relations between Morocco and Israel. Currently, Joe Biden does not seem to wish to reconsider this decision. Our Freedom and Territory Group is very committed to the right of peoples to self-determination, which gives rise to our interest in the cause defended by the Frente Polisario. What are the expectations of the representatives of the SARD towards the authorities of France and the European Union? It's a subject you've addressed in part. Between 100,000 and 200,000 refugees from Western Sahara live in camps near the town of Tindouf, in southern Algeria. Can you tell us more about the current state of the humanitarian situation on the ground? Finally, the ceasefire was broken in November 2020 following the deployment of the Moroccan army to a demilitarized zone of Western Sahara under the control of peacekeepers. This conflict once again highlights the difficulties faced by peacekeepers in carrying out their peacekeeping missions. What are your relationships with the peacekeepers in the field?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u105	Mr Oubi Bouchraya Bachir has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u106	I mentioned earlier our hopes for the European Union and France. In short, we hope that France and the European Union will assume the responsibility of enforcing the agreements signed between the parties – the Frente Polisario and Morocco – in order to enable the Saharawis to enjoy their right to self-determination and independence, just as all the countries colonised throughout history do. The European Union today has an additional responsibility, after the efforts made within it and the desire to circumvent the decisions of European justice with the sole aim of serving the interests of Morocco. In the Maghreb, we have the impression that in Paris, but also in Brussels, we express a preference for Morocco, to the detriment of the other countries and peoples of the region, and this seems to me to be an anomaly that needs to be corrected. With regard to the humanitarian situation in the Saharawi refugee camps in Tindouf, the refugee status was a problem in itself. The refugee state here refers to a political cause – not a natural disaster – in this case the exodus of the Saharawis after the military invasion of their territory by the Moroccan occupier. Since the first day, the institutions of the DSAR have invested themselves in building the foundations of a modern Saharawi State, which can help, after independence, to realize and fulfil the aspirations of a sovereign people. I believe that essential progress has been made, especially in the areas of education, public health, women's empowerment, youth participation and even democratic practice in refugee camps, which is not evident in national liberation movements. You know that the ceasefire was broken as a result of Morocco's military invasion of a demilitarized zone, the Guerguerat region. After the occupation of part of the territories, we were forced to resort to our legitimate right to defence. Since then, the ceasefire has collapsed and the mission of the peacekeepers has become peripheral. The expulsion of peacekeepers — far from being on the table — had not been carried out and MINURSO was still called upon to play its role: the organization of the referendum on self-determination, reflected in the letter R of the acronym for that mission. The ceasefire had been signed between the two sides as a step towards preparing for the peace process and the holding of the referendum on self-determination, but it had only become an instrument in the hands of Morocco to consolidate its occupation of the territory. The ultimate objective of the mission of the United Nations and the United Nations as a whole is to decolonize the territories and give the Saharawis the opportunity to determine their final status, as advocated by international law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u107	I would like to thank our guests for their participation in our work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u108	Before proceeding to the second part of this debate, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u109	The meeting was resumed. The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u110	I thank you for your invitation to discuss Western Sahara as part of an exchange between the members of the Government and the national representation – a separate exercise from the round table you have just held, which took place without government representation. France has, of course, always been very attentive to the situation on the ground and to the prospects of resolving a conflict that has lasted for several decades. It is all the more so today as we see a resurgence of tension among the stakeholders. Before going into detail on the case of Western Sahara, I would like to reiterate France's commitment to respect for international law. This is a constant priority of French diplomacy, because it is in our interest to promote a multilateral framework based on mutually agreed rules that ensure the peaceful settlement of disputes. This commitment to respect international law is reflected in concrete actions. First of all, France seeks to recall international law in all multilateral fora when it is called into question. This is done at the UN Security Council, in view of our special responsibility as a permanent member, both in the UN General Assembly and in the Human Rights Council, of which France is a member elected until 2023. France is also engaged in a number of specific initiatives that provide us with levers for action to enforce international law. If I take, for example, the case of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, France, Germany, Egypt and Jordan are mobilized within the Amman group that you must know well, which aims to recall internationally agreed parameters for the resolution of the conflict and to identify the small steps possible so that Israelis and Palestinians can resume dialogue. The group met in the spring of 2021. In addition to our action in international forums and our initiatives with different States, we have other levers when the situation so requires, including the sanctions tool. That is valid both at the level of the Security Council and at the level of the European Union. As you know, we implemented it, for example, against Russia in 2014, in response to the illegal annexation of Crimea. In line with this principled position, France is committed to full respect for international law in the conflict in Western Sahara. We therefore very clearly support the search for a political solution that is just, lasting and mutually acceptable, in accordance with United Nations Security Council resolutions. The resolution of this conflict is important to us for several reasons. First of all, the tensions it generates represent factors of instability in our direct neighbourhood. This was seen in the fall of 2020 and recently in early November 2021: incidents are likely to lead to a sharp deterioration of the situation, which is in no one's interest. Secondly, this conflict is fuelling tensions at the regional level, particularly for two key partners in France, Morocco and Algeria. As we have seen for decades, these tensions represent a major obstacle to the stability and political, economic and commercial integration of the Maghreb. I am not drawing a picture of a number of initiatives that are now far away. We have a well-known legal framework to draw up a vision for resolving the conflict. As you know, Western Sahara has been included since 1963 in the list of Non-Self-Governing Territories established by the UN General Assembly on the basis of Article 73 of the UN Charter. In 1990, the UN Security Council itself approved a conflict settlement plan by Resolution 658. A year later, the United Nations mission for the organisation of a referendum in Western Sahara, whose mandate is regularly extended by the Security Council, was recently established on 30 October 2021. The role of this United Nations mission is truly essential for the respect of ceasefire agreements and for the stability of the region; It also helps to create the necessary conditions for the resumption of the political process. The various resolutions – the one of 1988, the one of 1990 and the one of October 2021 renewing MINURSO – clearly indicate the parameters for resolving the conflict and France, like the European Union, complies with the legal framework thus laid down. We constantly reaffirm our commitment to the settlement of the dispute in Western Sahara, and we fully support the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and his personal envoy, Staffan de Mistura, to help the parties reach a political solution that is just, lasting and mutually acceptable. In this context, France and the European Union shall ensure that relations with Morocco are fully within the framework of international and European law as interpreted by the competent courts. This is why the EU and Morocco renegotiated two international agreements which bound them, namely, on the one hand, the commercial part of their association agreement, and on the other hand, their fisheries agreement, in order to draw the consequences of the judgments of the ECJ in 2016 and 2018 and thus specify the framework and conditions for the application of these agreements to Western Sahara or to products originating therefrom. In accordance with the judgments of the Court, these new agreements regard Western Sahara as a separate territory from the Kingdom of Morocco. As you know, in two judgments delivered on 29 September last, the Court of the European Union at first instance annulled the decisions of the Council of the European Union authorizing the conclusion of these agreements. However, an appeal has been lodged before the Court of Justice, which will have to give final judgment on this question. During this procedure, the agreements remain fully in force. France is convinced that these texts respect international and European law and are consistent with the fundamental principle of the primacy of the interests of the inhabitants of the Non-Self-Governing Territories and with the obligation to promote their prosperity. Moreover, we will endeavour to bring this point of view to the attention of the Court of Justice – which, of course, we will scrupulously respect the final decision. Beyond these essential legal aspects, France also plays an active political role in calling on the various stakeholders to promote the appeasement and preservation of the ceasefire, and is fully engaged in the political process, in particular through its full support for the work of the new Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I believe that the appointment of Staffan de Mistura, who officially took office at the beginning of November, should enable a political process in line with Security Council resolutions to be relaunched. France considers that the autonomy plan presented by Morocco in 2007 – I am not going to repeat all the history, but everyone remembers the Baker I and II plans – is a serious, credible basis for discussion for the resumption of dialogue with a view to a negotiated solution. Finally, beyond the strictly political question, there is the question of respect for human rights and Saharan refugees – an issue that also has a political aspect, I agree. It is very clear that respect for international law, defence and the promotion of human rights are a priority of our diplomatic action in this region as well as throughout the world. We closely monitor respect for human rights throughout the world, respecting the sovereignty of the States concerned, but maintaining a dense, often intense dialogue with those States. France thus maintains a close, regular and trustworthy dialogue with the Moroccan authorities. The question of Western Sahara was also being followed up at the Human Rights Council and, alongside its partners, France called on all States, including Morocco, to respect international human rights commitments – commitments they had freely undertaken. On the humanitarian dimension, I mean that our embassy in Algeria maintains a regular dialogue with the Algerian authorities on the issue of refugee camps near Tindouf. It regularly visited those camps and supported UNHCR's work, particularly in the financial sphere. In 2021, we made a contribution of 250,000 euros, and we are also contributing to the humanitarian activities of the World Food Programme (WFP) in Tindouf, in support of school feeding projects. Here I reiterate France's firm commitment to ensure that international law prevails throughout the world, including in Western Sahara. France will continue to actively support a process aimed at achieving a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution in accordance with UN Security Council resolutions. It will naturally remain in close contact with regional partners to encourage de-escalation and the resumption of the political process, and we will continue to be active in the Security Council and to support the efforts of the United Nations. These are the elements that I wanted to bring to the attention of your House at the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u111	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u112	I will use my two minutes to contradict the minister delegate, who seems to me to have said everything and his opposite. I very much appreciated the first part of your speech, affirming respect for international law – it is a good thing that a foreign minister or his representative makes these remarks – but it is striking to hear you then demonstrate that in reality you do not respect it. You cannot say both that you want compliance with United Nations resolutions and that you are prepared to discuss the peace plan and autonomy. No, we must only discuss the resolutions of the United Nations and their implementation, not the Moroccan position! When it comes to international law, the basic principle is that both sides agree. On autonomy, the Frente Polisario, recognised as the representative of the Saharawi people by the United Nations, does not agree with the plan you are talking about. So you can't say you support each other. Similarly, when you say about the decisions of European justice that you want the well-being of the Saharawi people in the occupied territories, the only thing to do would be to ask the Polisario Front, the only representative of the Saharawi people recognized by international law, which is the only one entitled to authorize the exploitation of wealth in Western Sahara and to conclude agreements – or to conclude them himself – with the European Union. For almost thirty years, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has believed that France has the key to peace in this region of the world. If the cease-fire has been cancelled, it is precisely because of this non-regulation, due to thirty years of diplomatic inaction, thirty years of stand-by. In other words, we have not used the time of the ceasefire to conclude a lasting and definitive peace, and we see today the result: as you yourself say, the conflict could ignite the whole region, and France has no interest in it. I want to conclude by referring to the fate of political prisoners – I am thinking in particular of Naâma Asfari and our fellow citizen Claude Mangin. The latter, who has repeatedly addressed the Quai d'Orsay, has never obtained the answers that a French citizen is entitled to obtain on her requests relating to access and respect for human rights. She testified earlier and I would like to know the future attitude of the Quai d'Orsay both towards her and towards the representative of the Frente Polisario in France, since Paris is the only capital of Europe not to treat the representative of the Frente Polisario properly – while, as I recall, France has chaired the Council of the European Union since 1 January last.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u113	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u114	[[Jean-Paul Lecoq makes a sign of denial]] On international law, things are clear: as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, France is making every effort to promote the search for solutions, as I have shown on many issues. The current government is obviously only accountable for what has been done over the last five years, but even with reference to the three decades that have passed, it cannot be said that the lack of resolution is due to a lack of goodwill on the part of external States that specifically wish to promote the resolution of the conflict? For things to move forward, we still need local wills – we could say the same thing in many other disputes around the world: that is why we call for dialogue and support the efforts of the UN Secretary-General's Special Envoy. As far as our compatriot Claude Mangin is concerned, you know how much the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs has followed and continues to monitor his situation. I think I can say without being denied that Jean-Yves Le Drian supported Ms Mangin's requests, which led to a visit being granted in January 2019.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u115	One!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u116	However, as you know, admission to a national territory is a matter for the sovereignty of a State. I would add that, in the current pandemic context, even French settled in Morocco may have difficulties in travelling outside Morocco due to the prevention of air and sea connections. In any event, we will continue to discuss Claude Mangin's case with the Moroccan authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u117	Mr Jacques Maire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u118	The subject is of importance, and it is rare for him to have the audience that will benefit our debate, including in the region of the world that we are dealing with. The question of Western Sahara is a paradox for us. On the one hand, we have with Morocco, which is a friendly country and an exceptional partner, with a very strong sensitivity and unrivalled cooperation in all areas. On the other hand, we are witnessing a conflict in these territories of Morocco and the Sahara that has been frozen for some 30 years, leaving no situation for a ghettoized population, which is not doing much better on either side of the border and which has no prospects, particularly in economic and employment terms. This situation is the ideal ground for promoting all deviant behaviour in the areas of drug trafficking, risk of crime and radicalisation. In short, all the elements are united to form a local Gaza species. In this respect, there is little prospect of a settlement, and I must say that the unilateral decisions taken by the United States have not had the expected effect of training on European countries. What the Court of Justice has just done reminds us that this problem cannot be solved by unilateral legal decisions. At the same time, the situation appears to be increasingly difficult at the multilateral level. The renewal of MINURSO's mandate has been carried out in much less consensual conditions than in the past and, on both sides, the conflict is growing. That the situation can be stabilized is therefore not an option. And France, which is a friend of this country, has a role to play. The context of the rivalry between Algeria and Morocco is particularly delicate. I have the impression that, in the bilateral agendas, the situation in the Sahara, which we have just mentioned, as well as the Palestinian question and the Abraham agreements, are placed at the top. There is also a certain paradox to note that, as a result, tensions have decreased slightly in the eastern Mediterranean but have increased in the western Mediterranean. France has been an untiring actor in the Maghreb Union and the 5 + 5 dialogue. It has always been heavily involved in cooperation with and cooperation between the two shores of the Western Mediterranean. Under these conditions, we cannot do anything.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u119	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u120	France, as you pointed out, Mr Maire, is firmly committed to dialogue between the two shores, as evidenced by the organisation of the summit of the two shores. The choice of the President of the Republic is to rely also on civil societies. We want to go beyond the particular complexities that are manifested at the political and institutional level so that young people can talk to each other and build joint projects. With regard to the Euro-Mediterranean process, know that France's ambition is intact. With regard to the conflict itself, we fully support the initiatives of Staffan de Mistura. Around 2017 and 2018, some elements were bearers of hope, but since 2019, unfortunately, there has been a renewed tension. There are no 36000 solutions: political dialogue must progress from the parameters known to all. Mr. Lecoq said that the French position of considering the 2007 plan as a serious basis was in contradiction with international law. Well, no. Let us turn to the text of the Security Council resolution of 30 October 2020: taking note of the Moroccan proposal presented to the Secretary-General on 11 April 2007, the Council welcomed, I quote, "the serious and credible efforts made by Morocco to move forward with a settlement". As you can see, international law, since a Security Council resolution is a matter of international law, refers to that plan. There is therefore no contradiction. I'll even talk about consistency. Be assured, Mr. Mayor, that we will be consistent in our commitment and in our will to ensure that international law leads to a dialogue based on mutually acceptable elements.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u121	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u122	This is the only possible basis for a future solution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u123	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u124	With regard to respect for international law, allow me, Mr. Deputy Minister, to address the situation in Cuba rather than the situation in Western Sahara. The island has now been under an embargo for sixty years, which has been tightened since 1996 and has become even more stringent under Donald Trump's presidency. It should be recalled that the latter has taken 243 measures against the country under extraterritorial laws, i.e. one every three days during his term of office, which is tantamount to relentlessness. And his successor Joe Biden didn't lift any of the sanctions. Cuba is deprived of many resources. She doesn't even have access to financing anymore. You know perfectly well, Secretary of State, for having attended negotiations many times. In this connection, let us recall France's support for Cuba, at the initiative of President François Hollande, in particular through the agreement of the Paris club of 12 December 2015. Cuba is suffering more and more from this embargo, known as a block, which means a blockade, which is absolutely necessary to lift. It affects food and health products. International humanitarian assistance cannot even reach the population. Let's add that these extraterritorial laws affect our businesses. According to the report by our colleague Raphaël Gauvain, they have caused 30 billion euros in losses for them, 100 billion if we take into account the non-realizations. We see how these laws weigh on the economy of our country and thus on the national budget and the lives of our fellow citizens. How does France intend to act? The question arises all the more during this period of pandemic because the United States blockade prevents Cuba from producing its vaccines in desirable quantities to help humanity emerge from this crisis. We cannot accept that France and the European Union, of which we have just taken the presidency of the Council, cannot stand up to the United States, which defends its own interests instead of working for friendship between the peoples: 11 million Cubans suffer from this American ideology that we cannot condone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u125	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u126	Mr President, you know how France is working to preserve a dense dialogue with Cuba. I have also had the opportunity to take part on several occasions in bilateral meetings, in particular with Rodrigo Malmierca Diaz, Cuban Minister for Foreign Trade and Investment. You have insisted on the embargo against this country, which has been reinforced by an extraterritorial law of the United States, the Helms-Burton Act. There is no doubt that the European Union must step up its response to this extraterritorial legislation. We look forward to working in this direction in the first half of the year when we will hold the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We can already rely on various provisions not only at national level but also at European level to better protect our interests and businesses. Over the next six months, we expect, on the basis of Commission proposals, to make countermeasures even more operational. These extraterritorial laws are not welcome and we know what impact they have, for example, when they force us to bow in front of the OFAC – Office of Foreign Assets Control – in order to obtain such or such authorization for a French company. Our political ambition during the French Presidency is to strengthen the tools of European law to restrict these iniquitous measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u127	The debate is closed. As the next debate is taking place in the Chamber, and no longer in the Lamartine Chamber, I shall suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u128	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u129	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u130	The next item is the debate on the institutional and political future of New Caledonia, following the third consultation on the accession to full sovereignty, with a view to the end of the process defined by the Nouméa Accord. The Conference of Presidents decided to organize this debate in two parts: as a first step, we will hear the speakers of the groups and then the Government; We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u131	"I do not believe that the historical anteriority of the Canaques on this land is sufficient to base the law. History versus History: Caledonians of European origin have also, by their labor, shaped this soil, fed on its substance, rooted in it. The two communities face-to-face have no chance of imposing their laws on a lasting basis, without the other and against the other – if not through violence and violence itself will reach its limits. Thus, François Mitterrand expressed himself in his Letter to all the French on April 7, 1988, a few days before the drama of Ouvéa, where violence had to reach its limits. Our country has its roots in these one hundred and seventy years marked by blood, sweat and tears: those of the indigenous people, "repelled" throughout the colonial period "to the geographical, economic and political margins of their own country", as recalled in the preamble to the Nouméa Accord; those of criminal concessionaires, deportees and free settlers who, in the same preamble, " laid the foundations for development" of the country; those of Asian workers, true slaves at the service of mining capitalism. These populations have come together, clashed, fought together in global conflicts; They have mixed up, intertwining their cultures, I repeat, by blood, sweat and tears – sometimes also by spirituality and fraternity. Thus the people of Caledonians, a people who carry the legacy of a colonial period which must continue to be remembered, made up of spoliations for the Kanaks, atonement for the forces, uprooting for the pioneers, laboring for all; A people that, throughout the second half of the 20th century, has been enriched by the contribution of Wallisians, Futunians, Tahitians and Metropolitans, especially during the nickel boom. A people that has forged its values, "which take their roots in universal and republican values, in Kanak and oceanian values, in Christian values, values that derive [...] from the blending of our identities shaped by successive waves of settlement", according to the pretty formula of the Charter of Caledonian Values; A people that has always "refused that the divergent versions of the future are settled by a partition, geographical or ethnic," rightly pointed out before the Congress of New Caledonia, on 23 February 2016, Gérard Larcher, President of the Senate. A mosaic people celebrated by the motto of the Caledonian Union: "Two colors, one people"; a people constituting "a true small nation within the French nation", to use the right words of Jacques Lafleur, whom I have long made mine; a sovereign people over their destiny since they have the right to self-determination, the central pole of the process of decolonization and emancipation initiated; A people who always live with the same acuity the question of the sovereignty of the French Republic on Caledonian land: for some, it protects them, for others, they suffer it. Three successive referendums testified to this, one of which was the last to have had a fortune different from the two previous ones, since the independents who asked for it refused to participate in the end. The process of 1988 was thus completed by the small doorway of history. But three times no, that means no, a no that transforms the bond of sovereignty suffered, the bond resulting from the taking of possession, into a bond of sovereignty chosen, the bond resulting from universal suffrage. However, everyone knows that while electoral arithmetic is a political fact, it alone cannot be a political solution in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u133	It is the consensus in Oceania that forms the basis of political decisions, like the Matignon and Nouméa agreements, a local consensus necessary for a subsequent national consensus, both being intimately linked, especially since the 97 per cent of "no" recorded at the last consultation echoes the deafening silence of the "yes". FLNKS – Front de libération nationale kanak et socialiste – has been widely followed. As the Nouméa Accord is constitutionally lapsed at the end of the current mandate of the provincial assemblies in 2024, the door to another future for our country is now open. A new transitional consensus, like the previous agreements, can therefore be sought, but we will not write on a blank page, since Matignon and Nouméa are not meant to be a loss and profit, as some suggest. This consensus will, in particular, have to respect the principle of irreversibility of the political organisation set up in 1998, constitutionally guaranteed irreversibility, as underlined in the preamble to the Nouméa Agreement. This new transitional consensus must inevitably provide for further referendums on self-determination, which will continue to speed up the life of our country with its economic and social consequences, with their consequences also for the common destiny. Or have dreams big enough not to lose sight of them, or, then, we can collectively try to build another way: to complete the process of decolonization initiated and to free ourselves from referendums for or against independence. Access to full sovereignty was denied by a majority of Caledonians, but the United Nations explicitly provided that alternatives to independence were possible to conclude the decolonization process, including, I quote, "the approval by the peoples concerned of a freely decided political status". How could this new "freely decided" political and institutional organization consist of? Can we combine sovereignty and the Republic instead of opposing them? Can we get out of this mess in which we are today, at the end of this journey, weaving the threads between the "yes" and the "no"? Can we constitutionalize an in-depth revisited link with France? That's the way I'm proposing. At the time of the GAFAMs, the giants of the digital, to that of famines and wars that cripple the planet, of the rise of international jihadism, of the new cold war with China, which has already made a low hand on the Melanesian arc, how can we conceive an intelligent and responsible sovereignty for a small Pacific country like ours? How can New Caledonia continue to emancipate and go to the extreme limits of the reef without taking the pass to engage on the high seas? Because the Republic is like the reef around our island: it protects us. That is why we need to hear the expectations of non-independenceists who believe that, if the path of emancipation is to continue, it must be carried out under the protection of France, so that the regal competences continue to be exercised impartially, even if the spirit of the country must instil them more, so that everyone has his place without one ethnic domination of others, so that our standard of living remains at a high standard in health, social and educational matters, so that our economy can continue to thrive in a stabilized environment. Let us also choose to respond to the expectation of half the country for which the accession to a form of sovereignty would put a final point in France's taking possession in 1853 of this archipelago, a sovereignty that restores their dignity, a sovereignty like a new birth in the world. Can we build a definitive consensus on these bases for all Caledonians in the framework of the Government's planned project referendum in June 2023? That's my wish. "This small country needs a big brother, and this big brother is France," says an independent leader. Is it this big brother that Jacques Chirac envisaged when he spoke of an archipelago that had to enshrine his future in, I quote, "joining a wider community, a solidarity community"? Is it this big brother that Emmanuel Macron thought of in affirming his preference for a "stone" that continues to belong to "the national community"? Is it the same big brother Nicolas Sarkozy drew by imagining "a New Caledonia that flourishes inside the Republic in a vast space of freedom"? Caledonian constitutional law has already been engulfed in this vast area of freedom that the Republic has been able to offer with, as an example, the French Constitution. The Nouméa Accord itself constitutes a Constitution in the Constitution, as it derogates from a number of rules and principles of constitutional value. It is up to us to expand this constitutional space in the Constitution of the French Republic in order to house this "freely decided" political organization, of which the United Nations speaks, a constitutional space in Caledonia based on a sharing of sovereignty with France, the cornerstone of the new relations between our countries. "Our identity is ahead of us," said Jean-Marie Tjibaou. Yes, we can be a nation without being a state. Yes, we can be of Kanak, European, Asian or oceanic origin while being Caledonian, French and a citizen of the world. Yes, one can be an archipelago of Melanesia which governs itself, fully integrated into its regional environment and at the same time protected by a large country, France, and linked to an old continent, Europe. Independents have a duty to get out of the box of the original claim to allow new generations to move towards a future that is not yet a referendum, a referendum. And the non-independencers have a duty to accompany them on this path. The State must take its full place in this important process for the future of relations between France and New Caledonia. Collectively, we must honour our elders who have left us more than just a legacy story: the hope of a united and soothing New Caledonia. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Activité ens groups]] For me, there is no independenceist New Caledonia and no non-independenceist New Caledonia. There is no black New Caledonia and no white New Caledonia. There is a country we love, sometimes well, sometimes too bad, a country whose land flows through our veins, a country to which we belong more than it belongs to us, a country that forces us to combine our two dreams for the same land.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u134	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u135	The third referendum, held on 12 December last year under the conditions we know, concluded a sequence opened by the Matignon and Nouméa Accords. On 12 December, one process was completed, another must succeed it. If the status of Nouméa still applies, a new status will have to be established for New Caledonia by 30 June 2023, which in turn will have to be validated by referendum. It is up to the State, in partnership with local elected representatives, to build the institutional foundations of the future, perhaps a common destiny. I would like to begin by thanking the UDI-I Group for having put this essential issue before Parliament for debate. The future of New Caledonia concerns us all, even if it concerns its inhabitants first and foremost. The year 2021 was particularly complicated for the community. The challenges of the pandemic have been compounded by economic problems and a political crisis. After the consultations of 2018 and 2020, the referendum of 12 December last was held in deplorable conditions. Mr Minister, a number of my colleagues, however, have alerted you to the need to postpone this vote. Organizing such a consultation despite the resurgence of the epidemic and without taking into account the very important issue of mourning in the Kanak community was ill-advised. As a result, participation was limited to 43 per cent and the independent citizens refused to recognize the result of the massive boycott of the election, considering that health constraints had hindered the successful conduct of the referendum campaign. Why the rush? The Government's willingness to close this chapter quickly, under this legislature, does not explain the absence of a postponement of this third vote, which would have ensured a more serene outcome and an agreed result. Thus, a chapter of a process older than thirty years for a question of month was not appropriate. If we do not rewrite the past, we now have until June 30, 2023 to think about a new project. The future of this territory cannot be solved by this negative response: we must go beyond a binary approach that only increases tensions. Nouméa has been shaken by violence, confrontations that must not leave us indifferent. The "no" in the three referendums does not mean to maintain the status quo. I will not dwell on the legal aspect, but I would like to point out that a constitutional revision will be indispensable, since title XIII of our Constitution, which is devoted to New Caledonia, is in essence "temporary". Beyond these considerations, all in all, any techniques, to what path should the territory go? Certainly, towards a better distribution of competences. Some transfers of powers between the state and the community are already under discussion, including monitoring the legality of community actions or the academic field. Our group calls for the next government to work towards a reform that takes more account of the local, ethnic and economic particularities that differentiate the provinces. Indeed, the Matignon and Nouméa agreements have led to some uniformity by concentrating some of the skills in the hands of the collegial executive. The result was a high degree of instability: 17 successive governments in about 20 years. To avoid an irreversible fracture, healthy relationships between the College, these provinces and their communes will be required. More comprehensively, the political future of New Caledonia will also require indispensable economic support. I would remind you that the cost of living is 20% more expensive than in metropolitan France. I would like to recall that, for reasons of division of powers, the citizens of Caledon were deprived of the inflation allowance voted in the 2022 finance bill. Minister, do you intend to engage in discussions on this issue with the elected members of the community? The forthcoming negotiations should not be conducted in the shadows, far from the eyes of the citizens. Consultation with the people of Caledon is an obligation arising from the Constitution. We don't erase history, it's what it is, but let's not forget that history is built day after day. The future will be what will be decided democratically by the citizens of Caledonia. The Libertés et Territoires Group hopes that this future will be serene, regardless of the institutional path chosen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u136	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u137	It is only five minutes in a sequence of thirty-six years that have involved me in each of the parliamentary debates on the destiny of New Caledonia, for the modest part that was that of a parliamentarian and a Frenchman who loves his homeland and never loves it as long as it is in the pinnacle of the values that make up it. The situation in New Caledonia is again at a time of difficulty and nothing would be worse than denying this difficulty, but nothing would be worse than addressing it with a formalism that would be to say, as it would say for a municipal or regional election in the territory of Hexagon: "It doesn't matter that there were only 30 per cent of voters, a vote is a vote and everyone had only to give their opinion through it. No, because New Caledonia, since the agreement of Nouméa, France, the French Republic, the French Government and all those who have succeeded each other since then, has recognized an unprecedented fact, unique throughout the territory of the Republic today, that there was a colonial situation there and that, therefore, there were at least two peoples. This does not exist anywhere else on the territory of the Republic in accordance with the philosophical principles that enliven us, the French Republicans, who want us not to distinguish any people other than that which is constituted by the legal community. This has been our state of mind in recent centuries. As we know, we have dealt with difficulties that this formula has not allowed us to face properly, since decolonization has meant everywhere the constitution of separate, separate and independent nation States from France. This story is written, but maybe we can do better. Perhaps we could even draw from the difficulty in New Caledonia today from the teachings and methods that would be of value to other territories far away or marked by the neo-colonial history that constitutes the French reality today. We can also find lessons in what you have just said, Mr. Gomès, in which I measure the evolution of the non-independenceist part of New Caledonia over the past forty years. Before you, we didn't talk like that. I have heard your very open mindset and your availability for a reflection on how to move forward. The unitary state no longer exists in France – it is hard to say and to hear: French Polynesia has a government, the territory of New Caledonia has a congress, Martinique has only one assembly, Guadeloupe has two, Guyana has one and Corsica has a specific community. The problems of Corsica could also be analysed on the basis of the lessons we will learn from the difficulties of New Caledonia. While I note the difficulties, I feel concerned, involved and directly challenged by the outcome of the situation in my New Caledonia, within the Caledonian framework and within the national framework. If there is colonization, if there are several peoples, if the process of the Matignon agreements is towards decolonization, if a right to self-determination has been granted to the local electoral body, if there is a political authority constituted on that territory, Congress, then nothing should be thought outside the text of the Nouméa agreement and its spirit of conciliation. As soon as the independent party declares that the result of the referendum is "none and no good" and that it is even undertaking an approach to the legal authorities of the Republic to reconsider this result, we are under an obligation to consider that the Matignon agreements have not finished their work – I am saying well the Matignon agreements. Since the independent party says that it will not discuss anything until the end of the next presidential election, we must, first, hear it and try not to bruise or precipitate anything, and second, open up this discussion in an open state of mind and, if necessary, even in the spirit of the Nouméa agreement, until we imagine that the situation envisaged by this text will be repeated for ten years. We must do everything, in short, to avoid confrontation. As you have said so well, dear colleague Philippe Gomès, we must guard against the illusion that one would be absolutely right against the other. That's how I see things. The next Presidency will have to take note of the blockage, formulate a new proposal, put it to the vote of the Caledonians and, in case of acceptance, renew the Nouméa Agreement for a new 10-year cycle. If a new statute were to be discussed, it would then have to be considered that the one in place would not change until the new statute had been accepted by all parties – my first proposal – unless a new framework was defined by all the remote and island territories of the French Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u138	Please close, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u139	[[Mr. Alexis Corbière applauds]] Dear colleague Gomès, ladies and gentlemen of New Caledonia, I wish you and the peoples of New Caledonia the best, those of the Loyalty Islands, the Bélep Islands, the Grande Terre, the Province of the North, the Province of the South and the Isle of Pines. Let everyone know there, whatever the people to which they attach themselves, that the love of the French homeland is acquired to everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u140	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u141	I am speaking tonight for those who are neither present nor represented: the Kanaks. What is France's word worth? On October 10, 2019, Prime Minister Édouard Philippe, at the closing statement of the 19th committee of signatories to the Nouméa Accord, said: "We have ruled out that this third consultation could be held between the middle of September 2021 and the end of August 2022. We collectively found that it was preferable to distinguish between national electoral deadlines and those specific to the future of New Caledonia. What is the French Constitution worth? Today we see a war between the notion of "constitutional irreversibility" and that of "death" decreed, without looking like it, with an amendment of the organic law and perhaps without amendment of the Constitution. Allow me a few introductory reminders. On December 12, 2021, no Kanak participation for the dead, mourning and security. On the 12th, no Kanak participation because the state broke Edward Philippe's word on the committee of signatories. On the 12th, no Kanak participation because the state broke its neutrality with a prosecution document against the "yes". On the 12th, no Kanak participation to preserve the hope of building, in peace, with the others, the Caledonian people. The vote on 12 December makes no sense: a decolonization vote without the colonized people, without the Kanaks; at best one referendum against others, more likely a recolonization vote. The participation rate shows that there is no majority to build without the Kanaks, who have largely understood the views of FLNKS leaders. They are not the only ones, because others have joined them. The majority of the abstentions contained the majority of the country. It is with these that we must organize a referendum around the construction of the Caledonian people, for a common destiny, in a common country. Those who insisted on the December 12 vote are at best indifferent to the common destiny, to the worst contempt for the Kanaks, whom they ignore, as shown by their campaign clips. Those who voted without the Kanaks did not understand that they voted against the common destiny. They didn't understand the phrase "if there's not you, there's not me." The great losers are the Caledonians. Caledonian identity may disappear if we don't get out of stereotypical postures. The referendum will have been held for nothing. The political claim will continue, nothing is resolved. We just lost Nouméa's compass. The timetable you have set, Minister, does not in any way engage the independents, who want a longer transition. The state would like to get out of Nouméa's deal to get rid of it. He would like to be able to proclaim the nullity of this agreement, but the Nouméa agreement remains valid for the independents. Litigation has begun. For the independents, Nouméa's agreement is irreversible. This irreversibility is constitutionally guaranteed, which means that France must amend its Constitution by a three-fifths majority of the French Parliament to modify the essential elements of the political organization of New Caledonia contained in the organic law. These elements are the electoral body of citizens, assemblies, number of seats, voting method, collegial government, provincialization and rebalancing. If the decisions of the Council of State or the Constitutional Council or the implicit agenda of the discussions proposed by the State led to the lapse of the Nouméa agreement, and if the electoral corps were open to all French arrivals, the mode of order of the liberation movement would change from non-participation in the boycott. Political discussions can only be initiated with the new President of the Republic and after the parliamentary elections, which will give the colour of the government coalition and new national interlocutors. These discussions will take place in a bilateral format. The aim will be to form the Caledonian people. The French of New Caledonia, as the "no" supporters like to call themselves, will take a stand. Political discussions will focus solely on the principle of independence and on the modalities of a convention of interdependence or partnership. The order remains to create the Caledonian people, united in a common destiny, for a common country. The consensus has not been established since Paris: it is built in New Caledonia Kanaky, with all the Caledonians.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u142	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u143	I do not know whether the term "death" is appropriate, but obviously the third referendum closed the institutional process initiated by the Matignon agreements and then by the Nouméa agreement. Today, we must look to the future after we rejoiced that this last election was held in a serene climate. We can not only salute those who participated in the referendum, but also all the Caledonian territorial communities, which wished to organize it, in a democratic spirit. It should be noted, moreover, that at the end of the election, each side found a reason for satisfaction in the results. A new phase will now begin: a diagnostic and sharing phase on the balance sheet of the agreements. Have the Matignon and Nouméa agreements worked institutionally? The answer is yes. The institutions are in place, they have some shortcomings, but they work. Did the agreements allow for the emergence of a Caledonian community with a shared vision of its future? The answer is more complex. Of course, we cannot but rejoice that the public debate is pacified, calmed and democratic, but we must note that the Caledonian society remains divided, as evidenced by the decision of the independent political forces not to participate in the last consultation. Does the outcome of the last referendum mean that the decolonization process has been completed? The answer is no. The time has passed, however, when we put the question of decolonization in binary terms, opposing independence and maintenance in the Republic. The outcome of decolonization is not necessarily independence; It can be a new pattern of integration in the Republic, a scheme to be invented. This is at stake in the coming period. If Caledonian society remains so divided, it is probably that beyond the institutional success of the agreements, other aspects have a more questionable record. The agreements promised greater coherence and greater economic and social cohesion in Caledonian society. Behind the divide between the Kanaks and the Caldoches, there was also a clear economic and social divide. Part of the journey has been made, and we must rejoice at it. Between 1989 and 2014, for example, the proportion of dwellings without basic amenities increased from 23% to 10%. Another encouraging sign is that between 2005 and 2015, the number of higher education diplomas awarded in New Caledonia increased by twofold. The State has allocated the necessary resources to achieve this result: almost 1.5 billion euros is allocated each year to the Caledonian territory. Local authorities and territorial institutions have also contributed significantly to these positive developments. However, fractures remain very visible. Poverty levels, around 18 per cent of the population, have not decreased since 2008 and have even increased since 1991. The social divide is greater in New Caledonia than in the rest of the national territory. In 2019, the 10 per cent of the most affluent Caledonians had a standard of living at least 8.7 times higher than that of the most modest 10 per cent – this ratio is 3.5 in the rest of the national territory. Considerable work must therefore be done to ensure the cohesion of Caledonian society. In order to begin the period that begins and move forward in the transformation of institutions and economic and social catching-up, it is essential to start from a shared point of view. [[Mr. Christophe Castaner applauds. – Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Mr. Minister for Overseas Affairs, what is your view of developments in the economic and social fields in New Caledonia over the past thirty years? In addition to institutional issues, we must not forget the tangible reality of the existence of Caledonians. On this reality depends the construction of a shared future with New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u144	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u145	Dear New Caledonian friends, who listen to us or listen a little later, a cycle of more than thirty years, which began with the Matignon Accords in 1988 and continued with the Nouméa Accord in 1998, is now ending. A new page – but far from being a virgin – opens, and it remains to be written. Let us not forget that Parliament will have its share! It was therefore important that we meet today. These agreements, as well as the various provisions of Title XIII of the Constitution, will soon be overturned, but they will remain solid foundations. These provisions included three referendums to determine whether or not the land of France in the Pacific Ocean was fully sovereign. The last one, which took place on 12 December, took place in a particular context, from the political, economic and health points of view. Whether as a Member of Parliament for the nation, whose inhabitants of New Caledonia are cherished members, or as President of the parliamentary mission on the institutional future of New Caledonia, I would like to commend the overall success of this election and to stress that the material organization of the electoral process has been respected, including by elected officials calling for boycott. However, I regret, of course, a low level of participation – only 44%. As a result, New Caledonian voters expressed their willingness to remain within the French framework at almost 97%. Of course, this result is commented on and even challenged. But he's here! His legality is not at issue. For the third time, repeatedly and continuously, France's choice is affirmed: it is reaffirmed. The Republican Group welcomes this result, which requires us collectively. Yet it is far from resolving all the issues that arise and will arise. More than ever, the need to work together is affirmed, bringing together in the coming months all the actors, political, of course, but also economic and social, and therefore all the living forces of the people of New Caledonia, particularly in view of the referendum of June 2023. These months are precious, very precious; But they are not without danger or trap either. So let us collectively be attentive and vigilant. While giving some time to the time and given the electoral period of the coming months, it is a matter of ensuring respect for the vote, of course, but also the mutual respect of the various actors, who must bear the necessary trust, as well as the serenity and balance of this beautiful territory. Undoubtedly, since 1853, the old relations between France and New Caledonia have been made of ups and downs, shadows and light, as rightly indicated in the preamble to the Nouméa Accord. No one can forget that there was indeed a first people, who possess undeniable, "inalienable and sacred" rights, to repeat, with no anachronism, the formula of the preamble of our Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Nor can anyone forget that another history, partly linked to the history of the bagne, is the source of another culture, enriched since then by other contributions, numerous and diverse, whose rights are equally undeniable, "inalienable and sacred". In New Caledonia more than elsewhere, French universality is expressed in its diversity. "Ombres" and "light": this was of course still the case in the early 1980s. There were then tensions, rancours and, unfortunately, deaths, but also real hopes and reconciliations, embodied by Jean-Marie Tjibaou and Jacques Lafleur; These founding fathers of a future-oriented New Caledonia appear in the pantheon of the archipelago, and we are all, each with its sensitivity, heirs to their will of peace and respect. The current situation, whether local or international, is no longer that of the 1980s. New Zealand and Australia, in particular, saw France's presence in the region with a very bad eye, not without some ulterior thoughts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u146	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u147	Such an approach has changed well – I would even say it has changed radically – due to the increasingly assertive presence in China's Pacific Ocean, which is changing the balance. So let us repeat it here: New Caledonia is a centrepiece of our policy, as well as that of the European Union, on the whole indo-pacific. Over the past 30 years, much progress has been made in the cultural, economic, social, health and institutional fields. A lot has been achieved. Of course, much remains to be done to appease and better understand each other, to ensure and sustain diversity. This rebalancing is the full demonstration that France can remain indivisible without the homogeneity of the statutes being an obsession. This statement constitutes an orientation and an objective for the months and years to come in New Caledonia. If the past has indeed been the time of colonization, with its difficulties, without doubt, its hours and its misfortunes, with mixed joys and sorrows, the future will be the one – let us not doubt – of sharing and rebalancing. Let's all get to work. Time is precious! It is a matter of preparing and writing in several hands the common and common future, in all fields, to agree on the distribution of competences, on a status, and also to recall the place of this land of France – and of all its inhabitants – in a larger indo-pacific ensemble. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Dem groups. – Ms Maina Sage and Messrs. Philippe Gomès, Christophe Castaner and Guillaume Vuilletet also applaud]] More than ever before, the results of 12 December and the two previous referendums constitute the solid foundation for a new pact between the nation and New Caledonia, between the Republic and all its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u148	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u149	Perhaps I will save time by avoiding repeating stories that have been said much better by my colleagues, but I too feel concerned and challenged by the Nouméa Accord and the history of New Caledonia, as our colleague President Mélenchon said about his involvement for 36 years. For my part, I was at the outset admiring what France managed to do, which was unique in the world, with this agreement. The three referendums we have just had have caused sometimes difficult times. With regard to the last one, which took place last December, I welcome the Government's regal commitment, which maintained security in the election. I do not think we can say that he has made a plea for the "yes": he has tried to enlighten the citizens with a text that is both clear and neutral – and I think we need, more than ever, enlightened citizens. As the President of the Republic has recalled, we must look at these three results "with respect and humility": respect, because the commitments have been fulfilled with regard to a process which, I said, is without equivalent to the world; Humility, because every election and the way it took place – as my colleagues have reminded us – prove to us that Caledonian society is still divided. Contrary to what is usually believed, there are not only two communities, block to block, in New Caledonia, and the other contributions that enrich it have been emphasized by my colleagues. As you know, I am a French resident abroad; I will now try to bring to the national debate what we French abroad, who sometimes have another look at the national adventure, can bring to it. I am also a mediator, which also allows me to sometimes have some useful tools and to look a little different as such. What is at stake today is the new agreement to be reached in 2023: it must enable a shared identity to be found. Beyond the statutory, administrative and legal issues, I think that there are two fundamental problems – they have been mentioned but I would like to insist on them – and I am a little surprised but especially very proud that it is the words of my group, the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats, that put them on the table. Firstly, we have given skills to 270,000 of our compatriots, which is not much, and we know that this has been a source of imbalances: how can a community of 270,000 people have a university and the related skills, and manage to make it work according to our standards? The second fundamental problem is that of social and economic inequalities. As my colleague pointed out earlier, this is the only indicator that has deteriorated over the past 36 years! I believe that we must seriously raise these two problems if we are to try to move forward. There is also another difficulty, linked to the existence of a Government of New Caledonia, which is on the ground and whose small administrative and jurisdictional differences can sometimes make it forget that it has to face a challenge that no other person could face. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – MM. Christophe Castaner and Guillaume Vuilletet also applaud]] What agreement can we work on for 2023? Ladies and gentlemen, that is where I would like to bring my little ecot to reflection. French nationality is original – dear President Mélenchon, we created a specific citizenship and nationality at home because we told all of Europe, in 1789, that being French was to love freedom. I remind you that the Marseillais who at that time sang La Marseillaise were not French at that time, but they loved freedom, and that was what allowed them to become French. And today, perhaps we could start by saying that, if we seek equality, then we will all be New Caledonians.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u150	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u151	On 12 December, the people of Caledonia were called upon to vote in the third referendum envisaged by the Nouméa Accord process. To the question "Do you want New Caledonia to gain full sovereignty and become independent? "No" won 96.50%. This historic moment was expected, following the two previous referendums of 2018 and 2020, which also led to the rejection of independence. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the political and institutional future of New Caledonia, as placed on the agenda at the request of the IDU and independent group, seems more than desirable. Indeed, in the aftermath of the referendum, New Caledonia was in a state of uncertainty. The first uncertainty concerns the acceptance by the population of its results: on 20 October 2021, the Front de libération nationale kanak et socialiste had requested the postponement of the election to September 2022, considering that the health situation did not allow for a good campaign. As a follow-up to this appeal, the independent organizations also called not to participate in the referendum, and announced that they would not recognize the outcome of the ballot box. In addition to this context of rejection, an unprecedented abstention of 56.13 per cent has emerged, and this must collectively challenge us. Therefore, Minister, I would like to begin by asking you how the Government will take into account the demands regarding the political legitimacy of the referendum. I would then like to express to you a second uncertainty, which relates to the recognition by the United Nations of the outcome of the process of self-determination. New Caledonia is currently on the list of Non-Self-Governing Territories established by resolution 66 (I) of 14 December 1946. France has thus until 30 June 2023 to request that it be withdrawn and to put this decision to the vote of the United Nations General Assembly. So, Minister, can you tell us what is the status of the discussions with the United Nations? Could challenges to the legitimacy of the referendum lead to preventing the withdrawal of New Caledonia from the list of Non-Self-Governing Territories? In addition, in addition to these difficulties related to the referendum, I would like to ask you about the future. First, how does the Government intend to organize the transitional period from 13 December 2021 to 23 June 2023? The independent organizations have already announced that they would wait for the outcome of the presidential election of 2022 before starting any negotiations. Mr Minister, in an already difficult context, it is essential that the new institutional project be prepared in consultation with all the political organizations in New Caledonia. In that regard, was the Government considering reviewing its timetable? Could you also tell us what the method of drawing up this new institutional project would be? Caledonians must remain masters of their destiny and free to define the institutional and political future of their territory. Nevertheless, we know that the constitutional principles of equality and universality prevent the exception regime applied to New Caledonia from continuing in time. So what would happen if the population refused to plebiscite this new project? Could you clarify the Government's position on the major institutional choices that will arise when the new project is developed? Have you made any proposals regarding the distribution of powers between Congress, the Government and the three provinces? With regard to the powers delegated to New Caledonia, was there any change in the distribution of powers? If so, could you tell us what skills you need to be alert to? [[Applause on the SOC benches]] I would like to reaffirm the determination of the Socialist and Related Group to enable the people of Caledonia to decide on their institutional and political future. It is this principle alone that must guide us. As a member of the National Defence and Armed Forces Commission, I am aware that New Caledonia is a major component of the Indo-Pacific zone. These questions by our colleague David Habib, whom I am replacing today, are therefore essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u152	Mrs Maina Sage has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u153	In the preamble to this debate on the future of New Caledonia, let us recall that France, by virtue of its history, has the undeniable peculiarity of a strong colonial past. By the end of the 19th century, it was the second colonial empire behind the United Kingdom. In the aftermath of World War II, there was a wind of self-determination. The year 1946 represented an important step in the history of France: on the one hand, the départementalisation led to the political, legal and administrative integration in the Hexagon of the oldest colonies acquired under the Ancien Régime – Réunion, Guadeloupe, Martinique and Guyana; and on the other, a French Union was created, including the overseas territories that we represent in the Pacific – including Polynesia, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna. At present, this ten ultramarine territories spread over three oceans make the diversity and cultural richness of our Republic. However, each of these territories, each of these communities has its own history, from the perspective of the colonial past. New Caledonia experienced a very difficult and confrontational period until 1988, when the Matignon-Oudinot Accords were signed, which formed the basis for appeasement, which also brought to an end the unrest and violence between communities. Ten years later, a new Nouméa agreement was signed between the state, the independents and the non-independents, in order to improve Kanak culture, create new institutions, and provide for a process of progressive – and irreversible – transfer of competences. Over all these decades, the political forces of Caledonia have always sought consensus, leading the way to this series of referendums, with a view to dialogue, peace and rebalancing – a very strong element of these agreements. I would like to stress that these tripartite agreements are based on twofold legitimacy: the recognition of the first Kanak people of Caledonia and of those who have long inhabited this territory, the people of Caledonia. Two referendums were in favour of keeping in French space, but the results were tighter, even more so for the latter. Consequently, on 8 April 2021, the elected representatives of the National Union for Independence (UNI) and FLNKS called for a third referendum. However, on 20 October 2021, the independents requested the postponement of the election scheduled for December, for health reasons related to the covid-19. Unfortunately, their request has not been accepted and, unsurprisingly, the non-participation of the independents has strongly marked this consultation, which I deeply regret. Let us remember that this election was still held in good conditions. We can thank the State and all the local actors who have ensured peace. We have all been following the operations very closely, whether we are overseas or in the Hexagon because, it must be said, the situation was sensitive and tense. Can we be satisfied with this result? Voters voted more than 90 per cent against independence, but the turnout was only 43 per cent. Legally, the result is indisputable. Is it morally, in the light of this history and of this search for consensus and dialogue? Minister, we know that the task is not easy. We are coming to the end of a very long process, during which dialogue has nevertheless always been necessary. Now, as a result of these events, we want to find ways to return to trust and dialogue to build the future, what civil society and Caledonian youth are waiting for. We took note of the request to stay discussions until the next presidential election. Like the other groups, we are wondering how you will manage this transitional period and organize the follow-up. [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group]] You will need a lot of humility and respect for the history of this territory. In fact, the Polynesian government has instructed me to ask you that Polynesia be involved in these discussions, because they have regional repercussions on the organisation of the French territories in the Pacific. We would like to be able to follow and accompany our colleagues in the Pacific to meet this enormous challenge that will not be without its impact on our territory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u154	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u155	First of all, I would like to thank the IDU and independent group, in particular Members Philippe Gomès and Philippe Dunoyer, for initiating this debate in the Chamber. The consultation of 12 December 2021, the third and final consultation provided for by the Nouméa agreement, was carried out satisfactorily, whether it be the organization or the public order, thanks to the sense of responsibility of the loyalist and independent political parties. We should not only pay tribute to the work of the State services, the law enforcement agencies, the monitoring commission and international observers, but also, as Guillaume Vuilletet pointed out, to the commitment of the mayors of New Caledonia, regardless of their political sensitivity, and their teams. At this pivotal moment in New Caledonia's history, allow me to make a point, to take stock and to propose some avenues for the future. Let us first make a brief historical reminder. The Matignon-Oudinot Accords of 1988 and the Nouméa Accord of 1998 made peace in New Caledonia. This prospect of stability remains the top priority. We have recalled that peace is not negotiable. The Nouméa Accord did not only provide for referendums. It also involved issues of geographical rebalancing, the recognition of Kanak culture and custom, the creation or confirmation of institutions, the foundations of New Caledonia's citizenship – as it is now recognized by our Republic – and tools for achieving self-determination, one of the main principles laid down by the Matignon Accords of 1988, even if some seem to realize it. In this regard, I would like to thank President Mélenchon for recalling in the utmost clarity this principle acquired in 1988. The process took place under the eyes of the United Nations, then the Nouméa agreement came to validate the organisation of three consultations, or rather a consultation followed by two others – let's be specific. The first could be triggered at the request of the members of the Congress of New Caledonia. If no one asked, after twenty years, the state had to organize it itself. This is what happened at the beginning of the quinquennium, in 2018, on the basis of a special list of electors – it was kind of a frozen electoral body. The principle had been validated by a constitutional revision at the end of Jacques Chirac's second term. A second consultation could – and not should – take place no later than two years after the first if a third of the members of Congress requested it after a period of six months. This led to the organization of the second consultation in October 2020. As for the third, it was requested as soon as possible by the independents, i.e. from the beginning of April 2021. Each election shows in its own way a deeply divided electoral body, divided in two. I will come back to that because it was not in the minds of the signatories of the agreements to achieve this situation of division, it must be recognized collectively with great humility. I come to the point. New Caledonia of 2021 is no longer comparable to that of the 1980s and 1990s when the Matignon and Nouméa agreements were signed, when too many Parisian observers tended to lock it up. At the regional level, the South Pacific has become a rivalry between the United States and China, which are embarking on a race of influence with the countries of the area, as Philippe Gomès recalled. The split of the Pacific Islands Forum, the diplomatic crisis related to Australian submarines are repercussions, as are the events that have occurred in recent weeks in the Solomon Islands – they are decisive even if they are less perceptible and less commented on in Paris. At the local level, institutional uncertainty weighs on the development of the archipelago. This reality has been translated very concretely in recent months into the accumulation of budgetary and industrial difficulties, which have called for a massive effort of national solidarity. For the first time since 1983, the net migration is negative, a point which has not been sufficiently commented on. The health crisis revealed frailties following the wave that struck Caillou in early September. I bow here to the memory of the victims of the Covid-19. Unfortunately, the incidence rate has started to rise again in the last few days, which should prompt us to be collectively vigilant. It should be recalled that French Polynesia and New Caledonia have the competence "health" within the framework of their autonomy. I mean, society has changed. Some 44 per cent of Caledonians are under 30 years of age. We must listen to this youth who aspire to peace and a model of growth that is fairer and more respectful of nature. We must offer him a peaceful future with respect for each other's cultures. Let us take stock of what this quinquennium has achieved in this singular moment. It is the honour of the State, in particular the 15th legislature and the quinquennium, to have completed the process with respect for the word given, by endeavouring to offer visibility to the Caledonian actors and to clarify the too many aspects of the process which, unfortunately, had remained unclear for years for quite a variety of reasons. Visibility concerns the consequences of "yes" and "no" to the question asked, Mr.Brotherson. For twenty-three years, there was a legitimate question about the constitution of the electoral corps, the date of the consultation, the question to be asked. Curiously, the question of content and consequences has never been asked. In 23 years, no work had been done in the Government or in Parliament on the major consequences of this choice. Unpublished inter-ministerial work has therefore been carried out. The document detailed the intangible effects of a "yes" victory, as well as those that would result from a "no" victory. The sequence of work, carried out in Paris last May and June under the auspices of all the ministries concerned, allowed to discuss the implications of "yes" and "no" with the present parties, independent and non-independence: binationality, commercial treaties, adosation of the peaceful franc to the euro. It allowed us to address complex issues that had sometimes never been raised but that could create anxiety among our fellow citizens. We owed them answers far from the binary "yes" or "no" in which we had locked ourselves in. For the first time too, the supporters of the "yes" agreed to work from the perspective of "no" and vice versa. This may not have been sufficiently emphasized. This stage was surely the first in the intellectual construction of a joint, dear to Philippe Gomès, between a dry "yes" – of which, at the bottom, no one now wants, which is new – and a dry "no", a form of status quo which no one wants either. If we want to set the course for the years ahead, let us build on this progress and remember that, among the four major scenarios initially envisaged, the most extreme have been pushed back. We are therefore called upon to work within the framework of the reflection carried out by eminent constitutionalists. We have also brought visibility to the schedule of the last consultation, hence the end of the agreement and its aftermath, which in part explains the choice of the date of 12 December and its continuation. The consultation as such, first, was organized at the request of the independent elected members of the Congress of New Caledonia in April 2021, as soon as the Nouméa Accord permitted. Now that the electoral cycle is over, I can confess it to you: I did not think that the independent political groups would ask for it so quickly. As I explained earlier, this election was optional: it was open to elected officials to ask – their will to do so was a secret of politics – but also to wait a little. The date was set by the State, in accordance with the Nouméa Agreement, following the exchanges held in Paris in May and June. These exchanges were, moreover, part of a more comprehensive timetable for the end of the agreement, which did not previously exist. The date thus defined then received a favourable opinion from the Congress of New Caledonia. The Nouméa Accords provided, in a somewhat enigmatic way, that in the event of a third "no", the different parties would meet to examine the effects thus created. You will agree with the somewhat vague nature of this provision, which in any case invites one or the other, in a certain way, to assume their responsibilities when the time comes. What we have sought to do in our debates in Paris is therefore not so much to set the date of 12 December as to begin to agree on what would happen the next day, simply because that is what the people of Caledonia were asking for. What has happened since then, we know: New Caledonia experienced a great epidemic wave in September. The Caillou had not been used to it until then, because New Caledonia was long covid free – to speak in good French. The hypothesis of a postponement, while the campaign had yet begun for both sides – here too, it is an undeniable fact – raised by the independent political parties and discussed at length during my visit to the country last October, aroused a particularly strong opposition from the autonomous political parties. There was therefore no political consensus to change the date chosen. Therefore, only objectively established health circumstances could have led to the postponement of the consultation. This was not the case, since the epidemic peak was reached on September 20 and the incidence rate was only 45 cases per 100,000 on polling day. I should like to recall that the Council of State, which was seized a few days before the vote, considered that the conditions were fully met so that everyone could campaign and vote freely. The results of the vote of 12 December confirm the conclusions that were already necessary on the evening of the elections of 2018 and 2020: at the end of thirty-three years under the Matignon and Nouméa agreements, independence, three times proposed, is not the wish of the majority of the Caledonians inscribed on the special electoral list. Nevertheless, the spirit of the agreements – convoked and recalled by President Mélenchon – and the divided results mean that the "common destiny" remains, in the first place and always, our challenge. Therefore, according to the customary formula adopted by the President of the Republic, we must welcome these results with "humbness and respect". With humility, for we will need time to take the right measure of the massive abstention of the supporters of independence: their silence makes sense. The supporters of independence, in any case, have made it their means of expression. Everyone has to hear it. Respect, then, for the speech given in the framework of the Nouméa agreement, which leads us to see the three-fold refusal of independence, as well as a marked cleavage, within an electoral body, each of which now recognizes the non-consensual character. New Caledonia is entering a period of transition. The next few months will therefore be decisive in building the future, in dialogue: it is a question of imagining post-consultation. Three steps are emerging in front of us. We will first have to deal with several emergencies, starting in the first half of 2022. You will therefore forgive me for discussing these questions, which concern the end of the quinquennium and this legislature and, as such, are our responsibility. First of all, as I said, the health crisis will catch up very quickly. The question of the robustness of the system and the permanence of care on the territory will therefore arise again – as in French Polynesia, moreover. [[Ms. Stephanie Kerbarh applauds]] [[Same movement]] Nickel, which was not mentioned once during the general discussion, although we know how important it is in the political process – and for reasons: it is a great wealth of the territory – is another major concern. As you know, Glencore's northern factory – whose symbolic load I recall and its place in the spirit of the agreements – and the Société Le Nickel (SLN) must be the subject of special vigilance and accompaniment. The management and teams of the two factories are mobilized to regain profitability. It's important. The finances of the institutions of the autonomous territory are, and must be recognized, in an alarming state. Since the beginning of the crisis, national solidarity has been expressed massively, through a first state-guaranteed loan of EUR 240 million and then a grant of EUR 122 million, which you voted for, but the situation remains worrying, because the difficulties are structural and pre-crisis. In a country with autonomous status, in 2021 the High Commissioner of the Republic had to decide on the territory's own budget. Let us agree together: the continuation of the discussions must take place within a perfectly calm and clear framework. It is about the continuity of public services. In addition to these emergencies, the transitional period must enable New Caledonia to emerge from the binary opposition in which the Territory has been confined for too long. In this way, the State proposes to initiate reflection on topics that will help to build the future and which are of concern to civil society. Philippe Gomès and Frédéric Petit have said: reducing social inequalities is an absolute prerequisite for the continuation of our discussions. According to the Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies (ISEE), the New Caledonian equivalent of INSEE, the 20 per cent of the most affluent Caledonians earn 8.4 times the income of the most modest 20 per cent. Although this figure is decreasing, it should be noted that this ratio is only 4.4 in Hexagon. This very directly raises the question of the tax and social system, of which everyone knows that it is one of the great absences from the agreement and the instruments deployed to implement it over the last twenty years. This is a prerequisite that I believe must be dealt with without delay. The question of land, which is dear to the customary system, also arises in the light of the disputes and difficulties of access to land which the Territory is facing, including with regard to agricultural development. I also recalled the importance of youth and the issue of equality between women and men – with New Caledonia unfortunately holding the sad national record of violence against women, whether within or outside the family. While elected officials and political parties are the legitimate interlocutors of these discussions, we must also involve civil society, which – which must be recognised here too with a great deal of frankness – has been left out for too long. We started doing this in 2020. At my request, the High Commissioner of the Republic is conducting consultations to determine what form this consultation can take. I stand at the sole disposal of the group presidents and Members to define this framework, to which national representation must be associated. The president of the information mission on the institutional future of New Caledonia, Philippe Gosselin, will obviously also be with us to define this field of discussion with civil society. Two phases are therefore to be foreseen now. The first phase will be a diagnostic and sharing phase on the assessment of the Nouméa agreement. This item will be on the agenda of my forthcoming visit to the representatives of the United Nations – in response to Isabelle Santiago. For years, Congress President Roch Wamytan has wanted an audit of decolonization to be carried out – because it is indeed a process of decolonization, even though many in Paris have forgotten it. The end of Nouméa's agreement must allow us to work on it in depth. Then there will be a phase of discussion on the future status of the territory. Everyone agrees that maintaining the status quo is not possible. These exchanges will have to lead – another secret of politics – to a new constitutional revision, a reform of the organic law and a new consultation of the draft. The independent political formations believe that it is necessary to wait until the beginning of the next quinquennium to work in this direction. The government of Jean Castex and I understand this position perfectly and we will not confuse speed with haste. I have written to the members of the Congress of New Caledonia with a view to outlining a method and a timetable, as they must be involved in this process. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, IDU-I and LT groups]] You will have understood, the path of discussions is emerging. We must turn this sequence into a moment of gathering of Caledonians, with great hope for the generations to come: that of a common destiny that would finally become a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u156	Continuation of the debate was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1112.u157	Next sitting, tonight, at twenty-one thirty: Continuation of the debate on the institutional and political future of New Caledonia; Debate on the ceiling on bank charges. The meeting is adjourned.
