ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u1	The next item is the debate on the report of the Joint Joint Committee on the draft law on self-employment (No 4961).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u2	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas, rapporteur of the Joint Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u3	In our ridings, we all know artisans, traders, farmers and professionals. There are 3 million in France and today, for the first time in a very long time, we are giving them a piece of legislation that largely complements the fiscal and social measures that we have already adopted at the end of the year in the context of the budget for 2022. I thank Jean-Baptiste Lemoyne for working on this text, which was built for many months by the deputy minister Alain Griset, whom I greet. I also thank your office, Minister Delegate, who has been listening and available, as well as the administrators of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u5	A bill is a collective work in which everyone contributes their share. The one that we are presenting to you this evening and that we are asking you to vote, colleagues, is a successful text, which is the result of a final Joint Joint Committee (JC) and fruitful work with our fellow senators. I thank the rapporteurs Christophe-André Frassa, Frédérique Puissat and Serge Babary for their positive and respectful attitude to our common work. But above all, I would like to acknowledge the work done by all the Members sitting on these benches, in particular that of my co-rapporteur Jean-Noël Barrot and the text managers Cendra Motin and Jean Paul Mattei.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u6	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u7	We have not strayed from the main objective of the bill, which aims to better protect the individual entrepreneur and thus encourage French and French people to start their businesses. But we have also enriched the text, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate. Entrepreneurs who now belong to EIRL – an individual entrepreneur with limited liability – have nothing to fear and can retain this status, which was already protective. For all the others, on the other hand, the separation between personal and professional heritage will become effective without having to do anything and without any additional costs: it is historic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u8	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u9	The separation of assets will continue even after the death, from the moment the cessation of activity has been initiated upstream. An entrepreneur takes risks and may encounter difficulties. That is why this text simplifies and improves the procedures in order to better accompany it in these difficult times, whether it is in a situation of over-indebtedness or in the framework of a collective procedure. An advance has been made: professional debts will be taken into account at the same time as other debts for the assessment of over-indebtedness situations. I would like to make it clear that we have retained all the specificities and derogations that farmers have acquired. We have even improved them by allowing, for example, a spread of all debts over 15 years in the event of economic default. I commit myself to work later on the status of the operating partner, as promised: the work does not stop at the time of the law's vote but must continue after. Discussions with senators added to clause 1 the possibility of reducing the time limit for reflection to three days, at the initiative of the contractor, if the contractor needs credit quickly. We agreed that section 3 does not pose any problems and does not give more rights today than yesterday to the tax administration to seize the principal residence. Article 6 has been amended in accordance with the Government's desire to work only in consultation with the regulated professions and not to affect the opening of capital to third parties or the modalities of elections. Because it is important to evaluate and monitor this legislation a posteriori to see if the arrangements it provides will have worked, I thank honourable senators – who are not in favour of requests for reports – for having accepted a compromise with the evaluation report, provided for in section 15, on the new status of individual entrepreneurs and their relationship with banks, with respect to the possibility of waiver. An evaluation is also planned for the Self-Employed Workers' Allowance (ATI), whose eligibility criteria have been modified with a view to broadening them. It is difficult to speak in five minutes about all the provisions contained in this bill, but five minutes are still enough to highlight the important moment we are experiencing today, as we propose that you adopt this text definitively, which is expected by 3 million entrepreneurs and which has been unanimous on these benches! This text concludes a cycle of reforms in favour of economic freedom that we have been defending since the beginning of the legislature. It happens at the right time, after the "whatever it costs" that we put in place during the health crisis to support economic activity, businesses, individual entrepreneurs, employees and jobs. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups as well as on the benches of the commissions]] I am proud to have been the rapporteur of this bill and proud that we have all led it together to its end. I hope that it will again be voted unanimously, as it has just been in the Senate today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u10	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u11	I will start with the same word that the rapporteur used to finish her speech: I am proud. I think it's a feeling that tonight we can share on every bench. What a journey indeed! I am thinking not only of the parliamentary work that has been carried out but also of the fact that, since 1994, no major text had dealt with the specific subjects of the independents – 3 million women and men who are the beating heart of our territories and who are in contact with tens of millions of French. These entrepreneurs embody values dear to our hearts: work, the sense of commitment, effort, entrepreneurship. What good news, moreover, is that entrepreneurship is experiencing a new dynamism. There have never been as many business start-ups in our country as in the last two years. It was therefore important that we continue to encourage this movement by better protecting the independents and simplifying their lives – God knows that there is something to do. We must protect them because the crisis has exacerbated the risks. The work that has been carried out to transform the status of individual entrepreneur is remarkable: it realizes a true Copernician revolution. So far, the entire heritage, with the exception of the main residence, was at the mercy of a failure. A considerable legal advance, in Article 1, will now avoid this double penalty for the entrepreneur who, in addition to experiencing personal difficulties, had to place the risks on all his personal property. The parliamentary work on this article has been considerable and remarkable, ladies and gentlemen: you have clarified legal points; you wanted to adapt the text to the reality of the company's life. The report provided for by an amendment by the rapporteur will make it possible to assess the new status of individual entrepreneur. I would like to pay tribute to all the contributions – especially yours, Mr Mattei – which enable Article 1 to live up to our ambitions. I want to reiterate very solemnly and clearly that we will expect banks to take their full part in this reform. Collectively, we will ensure that credit flows remain and will be very vigilant about waiver rates. Many debates had taken place in the Chamber on the situation of farmers. Let me assure you once again of the attention given to them: a number of derogations currently in force will be maintained, such as the 15-year time limit for dealing with difficulties. In the life of a business, the entrepreneur may at one time need to pass on his entire professional heritage to another – whether he wants to give it to a third party, retire or change his business. So far, this transmission was complex. Article 1 will now allow self-employed persons to benefit from an effective mechanism to transfer the entire professional heritage into a single operation, which is very simple to carry out. If an entrepreneur's life includes creation and transmission, if any, between the two, he may experience ups and downs. However, in low times, it may be interesting to have a safety net. The ATI, as reviewed by the bill, will allow entrepreneurs to make a new start. We estimate that the scheme could affect about 30,000 people each year. In this connection, I would like to welcome the work of the Joint Joint Committee, which maintained the ATI evaluation report to be carried out in 2024, which was introduced to the National Assembly on the initiative of the rapporteur Jean-Noël Barrot. Finally, with regard to the protection of workers, I also welcome the progress made by the Assembly, which granted the extension of paternity leave for public officials in the Chambers of Commerce and Industry (CCI) to 25 days, aligning it with what was already planned for private law officials. If it protects the path of the self-employed, this text also simplifies it – I said so. It thus provides for better access to information on the one hand – in a few days we will launch the famous unique site, undertake.service-public.fr – and to training on the other. From now on, only one agency will be responsible for managing the contributions and training of artisans. The CMP also maintained the entry into force of the reform on 1 September, as desired by the National Assembly. Simplification will also be the subject of further work: enabling the Government to legislate by order to clarify the rules common to the liberal professions. The multiplicity of legal texts sometimes leads to difficulties in implementation. We will therefore proceed to rationalisation, within a unified and more legible legal framework. Boundaries have been set by the legislator – which is very good – to exclude from the scope of the authorisation the rules relating to the additional opening of capital or voting rights to external third parties. Let me go back to a particular measure in the plan for self-employed workers, in the case of liberal professionals. I confirm that the tax amortization of newly acquired trade funds will apply not only to liberal funds but also to artisanal funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u12	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u13	Finally, the simplification concerns the craft code: the provisions relating to handicrafts are indeed scattered between the code and a dozen pieces of legislation and regulations. A constant recoding will be carried out within a very short period of 14 months: this will be a priority task for the Higher Commission for Codification. In this respect, I would like to reassure the parliamentarians of Alsace and Moselle, who asked me: in no case will we change the different specificities of the chambers of commerce in this context. Finally, allow me to commend all the trans-party parliamentary work that has been carried out to bring this bill to fruition. I also have a thought for Alain Griset, who, in his duties, was a working man of the text: he gave him an impetus to take the interdepartmental stages, until the President of the Republic could announce it. I share this moment with him tonight. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] In essence, you perceive the message that the text will send to the 3 million independents: dare, undertake, take risks; The state is there to protect you, to simplify your life, not to hinder you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u14	In the general debate, Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u15	After a parliamentary shuttle rich in several readings but relatively poor in progress, the Joint Joint Committee found a common ground on 25 January. You have recalled: independent activity can appear in our time as seductive, flexible, more flexible than traditional forms of wage-earning. However, it sometimes turns out to be a glamour or even a mirror with a larks. As legislators, this must commit us to creating the necessary and useful protection framework in case of failure of the project to develop an independent professional activity. Moreover, it covers very different realities: liberal professions, crafts, trade, not to mention the workers of the platforms, of which we all know very well that they actually maintain a link of subordination with them by imposing on them the status of independent in order to dispense from social contributions, considered ancillary in this new world where health, social, economic risks tend to increase. In this regard, we welcome the European Commission's decision to introduce a presumption of wage-earning for digital workers: however, remain vigilant about its effective implementation in the coming months. In September, at the meetings of the Union of Proximity Enterprises (U2P), the President of the Republic announced a major plan to support the 2.9 million self-employed. This plan, designed to respond not only to old or recent demands of the latter, but also to the crisis of the yellow vests and the strikes triggered by the retirement reform at the end of 2019, has been partially declined within the Finance Act, the Social Security Financing Act and, finally, this bill. It is therefore now important to know whether the latter meets expectations. Of its fourteen articles, three of which provide for the power of the Government to legislate by order within time limits beyond the end of the quinquennium, I will allow myself to retain mainly two. On the one hand, Article 1, referred to by the Minister Delegate, establishes a general principle of full protection of the private heritage of the individual entrepreneur and the ability to renounce such protection, which leads us to question the effectiveness of this protection. That is why, back to your display logic, we proposed to remove this possibility of waiver and to guarantee, again without possible waiver, the elusiveness of the principal residence of an individual entrepreneur. On the other hand, Article 9 extends to the margin access to the allowance of self-employed workers while restricting their cumulation over time. The President of the Republic had promised this allowance to the self-employed who had lost their jobs; very few will have actually benefited from it, because of its restrictive criteria and an administrative nature unrelated to what quickly becomes the daily life of an independent entrepreneur in difficulty. More generally, the opening of unemployment insurance to self-employed workers remains an unfulfilled promise. In addition, the bill incorporates provisions unrelated to independent professional activity. Thus, Article 12 reverses the procedural order in respect of trade union elections and the negotiation of the collective agreement of private law personnel within the KIC network, without the social dialogue being completed. The entry into force of an unsuccessful convention, while it deals with major issues – equality between women and men, paternity leave, day-to-day arrangements – has to be left dubative. These provisions will not remedy the blockage of social dialogue between the Directorates of the KICs and the representation of staff: on the contrary, we wanted to remove the obstacles to a high-quality social dialogue. Better protect the heritage, create safety nets that allow all self-employed workers to bounce back as soon as possible after a hard blow, facilitate access to training and ensure social dialogue within the KICs: the line of the Socialist and related group was clear. Due to the small number of social advances and negative setbacks or developments, as well as the lack of specific measures for platform workers, its members will not be able to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u16	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u17	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u18	[[Smile on the benches of the commissions]] I wanted to share with you the memory of the moments that I experienced, an hour ago, in the company of young people who have just made the tour of France: the Vélodyssée – 5000 kilometers, starting from Bordeaux, to discover fifty unipersonal companies. They went through all our beautiful ridings, including my home in Hérepian, to taste our crusty pâté, and drew a short film from it. I would point out that these are two boys of 24 years old, leaving a Parisian business school, not politicized at all. Their experience, their return from the ground, exactly joins this bill: we are responding to them! Honour to the daring: I say it when I think of them, but not only. Indeed, what connects the tielle de Sète, the small pâté de Pézenas,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u19	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u20	...the excellent chocolates of Clermont-l'Hérault and the pissaladière? A know-how, linked to a past, a French history, that of the territories. They come from medieval merchants, artisans who built our cities, our cathedrals, our secular monuments, this entrepreneurial spirit that founded our civilization. If we, Europeans, show any ambition, be sure that we inherited it from the merchants of the 11th, 13th or 15th century, who have changed attitudes! It is a good thing to wish to return to this apogee when we are at the manoeuvring to bring the independents into the twenty-first century. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] The bill does not achieve perfection; it poses some problems. We had to get started! Our future colleagues will retouch it. I was discussing the question of succession with the excellent Member of Parliament for Pau: the reserve will have to be changed, but, I repeat, it would be regrettable to stop at these details as everything changes. The independents need this text, which, although technical, obeys a simple philosophy: to make France of the territories a force, to create employment, so that our small artisans extend to the whole world the influence of France, so that their exports become the key to its victory in international competition. In this sense, we can only welcome this innovative bill: that is why the Group of the European People's Party will vote without hesitation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u21	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u22	Whether they are traders, artisans, farmers or a liberal profession, the UDI and independent group defends on a daily basis our 3 million independents, indispensable to our lives, to our territories, whose presence and vitality ensure the meshing. While the pandemic has highlighted the essential nature of the services they offer, their courage, tenacity and dedication are to be commended. The signal given to them by this bill is all the more strong as some of them find themselves in a difficult situation, having suffered the direct or indirect effects of the economic crisis and struggling to take full advantage of the recovery. Drawing on the consequences of the failure of the EIRL, the text aims to extend this protective regime to a greater number of self-employed workers. It aims to clarify the status of self-employed workers and to extend and strengthen their protection, in particular that of their personal assets. This is a real step forward, which we would like to stress. However, beyond intent, we continue to question the actual effectiveness of the system in these matters. The more the law protects the personal assets of entrepreneurs, the more creditors are tempted to circumvent this protection in the name of the loan guarantee. Our amendments were therefore intended to introduce a guarantee, if necessary public, like that of student loans or State-guaranteed loans (GLP), which would have allowed a sharing of the win-win risk: to encourage entrepreneurs' projects is to enable them to grow rapidly. We also want a privileged, humane bond of trust between self-employed workers and credit institutions: a charter of good practice drawn up jointly by the bodies representing both sides would have been a real step forward. Otherwise, we are pleased that the Joint Joint Committee has accepted the idea that in the event of a dispute concerning the distinction between the assets of the contractor, it will be up to the contractor to prove their personal or professional character. Members of the IDU and independent group wish to ensure that they have access to more information, in particular about the insurance schemes to which they are entitled. We thank the rapporteur, Jean-Noël Barrot, who has heard us and included in the bill the submission to Parliament of an evaluation report on this issue. We regret, however, the re-establishment of article 6, which is intended to empower the Government to make by order provisions relating to the regulated professions, which the representatives of these professions expressed their dissatisfaction with. Fortunately, the compromise resulted in the exclusion of any additional opening of capital and voting rights to third parties outside these professions. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] As you will understand, the IDU and independent group – my colleague Michel Zumkeller in particular, with whom I have invested heavily in this text – welcomes this bill. However, we will remain vigilant in the years to come as to its effectiveness. The many self-employed who follow our debates will be all the more grateful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u23	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u24	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u25	The spectre of the self-employed is wide and the realities are equally diverse, between the craftsman, who lives from his passion but whose end of the month can be difficult, the merchant, whose conditions of exercise have been affected by the crisis of the yellow vests and a series of confinements, the farmer, who has been in debt to buy his equipment, or the architect, who is suffering from the decline in the construction of housing, or the courier by bicycle, who collaborates with the platforms. All contribute to the economic dynamism of our territories and are driven by the will to undertake. All show courage, self-denial and a strong will to get out of it. But, in difficult times, they are often alone. And when the wind turns, the bankruptcy of their company often turns into a personal drama. To support the self-employed in economic hazards and enable them to bounce back once the crisis has passed has therefore been a constant concern of the public authorities. In particular, she was mine when I was in charge. One of the ambitions of the Law on Crafts, Commerce and Very Small Enterprises was thus to better protect the personal assets of the self-employed. Today, you continue to build on this momentum by creating a unique status for the individual entrepreneur, with for the time being the strict separation of personal and professional assets: I am, of course, in favour of it, especially since with the health crisis, more and more of these workers are facing the risk of their professional debts being recovered in part from their own property. However, the separation between the two heritages will be difficult to apply. Without redoing the debate that led this chamber during the first reading of the bill, I fear possible circumventions of the bill. The risk is that the largest creditors, in particular banks, will systematically require special security rights in certain assets, or even a simple waiver of the benefit of the separation of assets. The examination in the Senate and then in the National Assembly and the compromises reached in the Joint Joint Committee made it possible to secure the bill legally, without providing any answer to this key point. There are other measures in this bill that I think are in the right direction. This is the case with Article 9 which extends access to the allowance for self-employed workers. Coverage of the latter was an unfulfilled promise of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. In 2021, only 1107 rights openings were registered by Pôle Emploi, mainly due to cumulative criteria that were far too restrictive. From now on, self-employed people who have had to cease their unsustainable economic activity will be able to benefit from additional coverage. Finally, we will ensure that this is achieved by opening up unemployment insurance to all workers who need it. Another promise of the bill is to facilitate access to training for entrepreneurs with fewer than ten employees. A reform was also expected: in 2019, only 16% of the self-employed benefited from a training action financed by a training insurance fund. Let us hope that the simplification of the financing channel, combined with the doubling of the tax credit dedicated to it, will allow them to make more use of it. Finally, I would like to say a word about article 6, which aims to empower the Government to legislate by order in order to clarify the rules common to the regulated liberal professions. Initially removed by the Senate, it was reintroduced after a compromise was reached in the Joint Joint Committee concerning its drafting: the opening of capital to third parties was excluded from the scope of the order, which is, let us say, a measure of common sense. Indeed, we feared that future provisions would undermine the principle of the independence of liberal professionals and could not accept that a pharmacy, for example, might be subject to financial pressure from investment funds. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] While individual entrepreneurship is a success every year renewed and is becoming increasingly attractive, we hope for a better protection of the 3 million entrepreneurs who make our territories economically rich and diverse. That is why the Liberties and Territories Group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u26	The word...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u27	The good word...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u28	[[Smile]] Mrs Caroline Fiat has the right word.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u29	The good word will be short. In the context of this bill on the self-employed, I would like to stress the commitment of those who mobilized during the first wave of the epidemic – it is the caregiver who says so – but who have regularly been forgotten applause at 20.00 p.m. I am thinking of all the independents, in particular the ruralists who, without protection, remained open and offered their customers much more than tobacco: bread and basic necessities. Above all, they have allowed social ties to be maintained. Congratulations to them and to them! The approximately 3 million self-employed workers affected by this bill often face difficulties in starting and sustaining their activities. In order to obtain a loan, many independents are forced to stake their personal assets. This text is supposed to separate it entirely from the professional heritage. However, to the extent that the individual contractor can give up this option to a creditor for a specific commitment, we deplore the fact that the announced Sanctuary is ultimately not a bet. In order to meet the financing needs of individual entrepreneurs, it would have been necessary, as we requested, to establish a public banking hub and thus finance the discount of zero-rate SMEs. Moreover, the need for such protection became very important during the epidemic of covid-19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u30	We had to come to committee!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u31	INSEE estimates that 100,000 independents lost their status in 2020. And the backlashes of successive epidemic waves continue to take effect. State-guaranteed loans are difficult to repay for some. This is why the group La France insoumée proposed to turn the page of the crisis of covid-19, by delaying their repayment by two years and creating a caisse de défacilité in order to loosen the financial structure. You refused those proposals. More broadly, in order to prevent bankruptcies, we suggested the deployment of a public support service for SMEs in difficulty and the introduction of low-cost accounts for self-employed and self-employed people in order to improve their cash flow; But you didn't want to know. In recent months, many of the bankrupt self-employed would have been able to claim unemployment if the compensation system had not been so blurred. Indeed, since the creation of the allowance for self-employed workers, the conditions for benefiting from its 800 euros per month are so restrictive that in March 2021 there were less than 1000 beneficiaries out of the 30000 announced. You are now claiming to ease access to this compensation, but at the same time you are lowering the floor to 600 euros, which is barely more than the RSA! In addition, the minimum time limit between two applications remains five years: that is to say, your promise of unemployment insurance for self-employed workers falls to the water. But let us take a step up and observe what would have significantly improved the daily lives of the self-employed. Large commercial areas, Amazon warehouses, Deliveroo platforms and Uber impose a model that puts many artisans, traders, farmers and other independents at risk. In response, as a horizon, you propose only the unblocking of our social model, for ever more neoliberalism and dividends to be paid to shareholders. However, self-employed workers are already experiencing significant inequalities and a very high rate of poverty, as shown by the INSEE figures: one in five independents is below the poverty line – that is three times more than for employees; Microentrepreneurs, in 2019, earned an average of 590 euros per month, barely more than the RSA; A quarter of farmers live below the poverty line. Another common feature of the 3 million self-employed is the weakness of their social rights. Their social protection is minimal, whether in the event of loss of activity or in the event of illness, disability or disability. This minimum protection leads to other difficulties: high income instability, difficulties in finding housing or extended hours. The majority of them have not received continuing training since they became self-employed. On the other hand, half say they have to postpone care for financial reasons. We have made many proposals...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u32	Nothing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u33	... aimed at securing their status: solidarity fund between enterprises allowing to make progressive social contributions, training courses for new individual entrepreneurs. But, once again, we have systematically received an end to not receiving from you. In fact, you are perfectly comfortable with this very low protection. A whole rhetoric accompanies this view of the neoliberal world: one should thus value risk-taking, the desire to undertake, flexibility and mobility. As such, the 200,000 workers on the platforms are a fine illustration of your philosophy! We would like to recall the unworthy situation in which you abandon them. Your last bill on the subject is a shame! Unlike Spain, you keep platform workers in ultra-precarious working conditions and expose them to the wind of social dumping. In addition to harming workers who take risks unconsidered with this status, you maintain unfair competition with other actors in the catering industry who, as far as they are concerned, pay contributions. This situation is not specific to transport or deliveries: for example, the start-up Mediflash takes advantage of the shortage of healthcare staff to offer health facilities the option of using autoentrepreneurs. You have consistently rejected all our amendments aimed at introducing a presumption of wage-earning which would allow the contracts of these workers to be reclassified into employment contracts. [[Applause on a few benches of the FI and GDR groups]] This bill completely ignores the current issues and is therefore very insufficient.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u34	You promised us to be short, ma'am, it was almost successful. Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u35	We are called upon to comment on the compromise reached between the two chambers concerning a text whose main purpose is to separate the professional heritage from the personal heritage of individual entrepreneurs, recognizing them a new status. If this separation is, in principle, a favourable development of the law, we remain very cautious about its concrete consequences. The effects of this reform on the protection of the personal property of individual entrepreneurs will not be as expected. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the scheme, it would have been necessary – as we said at first reading – to remove the contractor's right to renounce the protection of his personal property and to prohibit the guarantee of personal property. To allow the entrepreneur the freedom to give up the benefit of the separation of assets is in fact to allow the banks the freedom to impose waiver agreements. Your liberal approach leads you, once again, to ignore the reality of economic power relations. The hardening of the treaty formalities will not change that. You will no doubt answer that a more ambitious reform would have had disastrous consequences, by blocking access to credit for the self-employed. Your text supports us in the idea that it is essential to equip our country with a large public bank able to offer zero-rate loans to accompany entrepreneurs. Otherwise, we could consider the introduction of State-guaranteed loans. While we doubt the effectiveness of your system, we do note your wish to remove the questions raised by the bill in the direction of the agricultural world. It now more explicitly removes from the business assets of the individual entrepreneur engaged in farming the land he owns and uses for his operation. You also wanted to restore the Government's authority to reform the system of membership of the regulated professions, which the Senate had very judiciously abolished.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u36	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u37	Without being in favour of this restoration, we recognize that the essential thing is preserved: the Government will not be able, by order, to expand the share of capital or voting rights that foreign investors in the liberal professions can hold in a liberal society. It's a useful guard. On the other hand, we remain concerned about the easing of the conditions for access to the allowance for self-employed workers, since it is not accompanied by any revaluation of the amount or duration of the benefit. The scope of this measure, which was expected, will also be limited by the creation of a five-year default period. Finally, we regret that the bill forgets the workers on the platforms, who suffer the effects of a shameful circumvention of wage guarantees.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u38	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u39	However, the text provided you with an opportunity to anticipate the transposition of the European Commission's decision establishing a presumption of wage-earning for digital workers. [[Applause on several benches in the DGR group. – Mr. Ugo Bernalicis also applauds]] At the end of the bill's review, you are proposing that we create a statute that we believe will not stand the test of reality. Without sharing the enthusiasm – pretended or sincere – of the promoters of the text, the group of the Democratic and Republican Left will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u40	Bravo Jean-Paul, at least we listened to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u41	You're almost there! One more effort, and you'll be in favor!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u42	Mrs Cendra Motin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u43	Last Wednesday, during a political program on an information channel, I heard Nathalie, a merchant in the Ain, describe her daily life, her 70 hours of work a week, her loans, her difficulties in paying a salary. Nathalie has expressed what, like her, many independents think: nothing has been done for them for a long time and they feel forgotten. I would like to take this opportunity to address Nathalie...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u44	It's like Ruffin! I'll send him a message.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u45	... and explain to her what we are doing for her and for all the independents, with this bill and since the beginning of the quinquennium. As soon as we arrived, we simplified the lives of the self-employed with the law for a state at the service of a trust society: thanks to it, the administrations are more attentive to entrepreneurs, recognize good faith in cases of error, and are more flexible in the application of penalties. As promised, we have also put an end to the social system of the self-employed (RSI), which has caused so many to suffer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u46	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u47	We have reinstated the management of the rights of entrepreneurs within the USSRAF, in a social security of the more effective and humane self-employed. The Act on Business Growth and Transformation, known as the PACTE Act, has made it possible to reduce various constraints on entrepreneurs and self-employed persons. For example, the pre-installation training course is no longer compulsory for entrepreneurs who depend on the chambers of trades and crafts. Microentrepreneurs no longer have to open a professional bank account as long as their annual turnover is less than 10000 euros. A single electronic window for business start-up procedures has been operational since last year, and a single dematerialised business register will be operational in 2023. Finally, the declaration as an employee spouse, employee or partner is now mandatory in order to ensure better protection for those concerned – protection that we have also strengthened. The ordinances of September 2017, known as labour orders, simplified the social dialogue and made collective bargaining more flexible, particularly in very small enterprises (TEEs). With regard to the transfer of professional assets – which is currently the subject of many proposals, more or less serious – we have taken strong decisions, whether in the 2019 Finance Law, which has relaxed the legal and fiscal regime of the Doutreil Pact, or in the PACTE law, which facilitates the transfer of securities between members of the Doutreil Pact and expands the tax credit taken over. To this is added the boost provided for in the Finance Act for 2022 regarding capital cost allowance for a commercial fund. We have therefore not only simplified the exercise of independent activity, but also wanted to accompany men and women in their journey. This support was reflected in the law for the freedom to choose its professional future voted in September 2018, particularly in two flagship measures. On the one hand, the ATI – the promise of candidate Emmanuel Macron – came into effect on November 1, 2019: it is a safety net and helps the self-employed, who are forced to cease their activity involuntarily, to bounce back. On the other hand, the monetisation of the personal training account, which benefits all employees, provides for specific measures for self-employed workers. Thus, the training insurance funds can cover the teaching costs and the costs associated with the validation of skills. Support was strengthened during the health crisis: the self-employed were able to access the solidarity fund, benefit from postponements of payment of tax and social deadlines and request a remission of direct taxes. Support continues in the post-crisis period: the minister responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises announced a few days ago that exceptional financial assistance, allocated by the Council for the Social Protection of Self-Employed Workers (CPSTI), could be sought by self-employed and micro-entrepreneurs, particularly in the hospitality, catering and event sectors. Despite all these measures, there were still loopholes, which this bill seeks to correct: to better protect the personal assets of the individual entrepreneur by defining it by default in the law, to facilitate the transfer of activity, to open the ATI upon cessation of activity, to allow those in difficulty to bounce back, or to help the entrepreneurs to cope with their personal debts, by opening up the procedure of over-indebtedness: all these measures were necessary to complete the building. There is still a long way to go to accompany changes in the world of work: the ratio of assets to wage earners is changing – a trend that the health crisis has only accelerated. More autonomy and independence: this is the demand of thousands of workers, who have decided to leave the labour market to start their own business. The protection that public authorities will give to the self-employed will therefore have to continue to adapt, in order to find a new balance between risk-taking and protection. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, to Nathalie and the others, I would just like to say: we do not forget you; You count for us, and today we prove it to you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u48	On the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u49	Self-employed people are the heart of the local economy in the territories, and the nerve of the human link; They are vectors of growth and innovation: that is why we must preserve and value them. Already hard hit by the economic and social context of the last three years – the movement of yellow vests, protests against pension reform... – the 3 million self-employed have been put in great difficulty by the pandemic. Autoentrepreneurs, taxis, traders, artisans, personal services: overnight, many activities suffered an unprecedented drop in demand and lost their outlets, not to mention the difficulties of exercise caused by health measures. These workers need our support. Of course, they were given aid to overcome the crisis of the Covid-19. However, the measures were sometimes inadequate, as they did not always cover fixed charges and rents. In addition, difficulties in accessing the devices and in the effective application of the measures – delays in payment, administrative complexity, etc. – have put the cash flow of some independents into complete asphyxiation. What can be done when the only solution is to buy a loan, which is guaranteed, but which will damage the financing capacity and profitability of the business? It is a real administrative maelstrom that the independents have to cross every day. This bill offered a great promise: to provide better protection to those who sometimes risk everything to create their own jobs and to contribute to the country's economic success. However, the overexposure to the crisis, combined with the inadequacy of certain aid schemes – which have not always sufficiently responded to the situation of certain branches of self-employed people – creates a major risk of economic and social bankruptcy, while the economic recovery and health situation remain fragile. The risk is all the greater because many independents are personally jointly and severally responsible for the success of their activities. Failure would lead them to separate themselves from their personal wealth – hence disastrous social consequences for a branch of the population whose role we praise in the success of the economy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u50	That's the real subject!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u51	The separation of personal and professional assets is therefore a good measure. The Republicans group supported it, as did the senators – they even made a useful contribution to improving the text by strengthening its legal stability. However, I will allow myself to make two reservations, which we have already addressed in our discussions. First of all, the renunciation mechanism – which is absolutely necessary to allow everyone to dispose of his or her property as he or she sees fit – risks, if it becomes abusive, depriving any effectiveness of the protection that we intend to offer to the self-employed. Secondly, we can only be reserved and interrogative as to the actual scope of the mechanism, which maintains the exorbitant prerogatives of public creditors. You will be able to justify it for all the technical and technocratic reasons that your administrations are blowing, it is neither more nor less than a lack of political commitment. Despite these reservations, we support the general objective of the text. We will therefore vote on the bill, the result of an agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee with the right-wing majority in the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u52	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u53	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Marc Le Fur also applauds]] We will also vote because our political family has always been at the meeting to defend the independents and the right to undertake for all. Let us join our voices to greet all these independents, traders, artisans, drivers, workers in the trades of services to the person, entrepreneurs who, every morning, rise with courage, engage in a journey of the incessant combatant and give so much of themselves.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u54	Mr Jean-Paul Mattei has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u55	How far has it been since 1985, when EURL and SARL – a company with limited liability – were set up as a single-person company! The text we are about to adopt is of particular importance to French entrepreneurs. He has the merit of simplicity. I would like to welcome the constructive spirit that led to the conclusion of the Joint Joint Committee, which should enable this major reform to enter into force before the end of the parliamentary term. I thank all the colleagues who have been involved in this work, in particular the rapporteurs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas and Jean-Noël Barrot, who have been able to lead a fruitful dialogue both in the Assembly and with the Senate. After the urgent responses we have made, with the Government, since the beginning of the health crisis, to protect activity and employment, this is one more commitment we are making tonight: facilitating the lives of entrepreneurs. The text provokes a legal electroshock by creating a legal regime for the separation of assets, which undermines the principle of uniqueness provided for in articles 2284 and 2285 of the Civil Code. From now on, the separation of the contractor's professional and personal assets will be the rule, and the waiver of this protection the exception. The individual entrepreneur will have the choice, which is not the case today. The failure of a company, whose entrepreneur is often more victimized than guilty, will no longer be synonymous with personal and family ruin. The CMP has, however, ensured that those who wish to do so can pledge assets to raise funds: the time limit for reflection has been reduced from seven to three days, and the amount has been set to avoid misappropriation. Article 1 is reinforced by the parliamentary shuttle, which has given it indispensable legal clarifications. I regret, however, that the text provides for the automatic reunification of assets at the time of death, even though the death of the individual entrepreneur in many cases leads to very serious financial and human difficulties for the company. Despite the important work we did in the session, it was not possible to integrate the concept of cessation of payment upon the death of the contractor. This new legal framework risks confronting practitioners with difficulties in succession. It will be up to us to follow precisely this aspect, and to correct it if necessary. I am pleased, however, that the bill facilitates the evolution of the individual enterprise towards the form of a member – as you pointed out, Minister Delegate. In addition to improving the security of the entrepreneur's personal assets, it will enable the entrepreneur to make use of external capital, particularly through equity interventions, and thus to grow his business. It will be easier to move from individual ECT to a more developed organisation with a better division of labour and more efficient financial and productive areas. The transition to society will also make it possible to democratize new ways of sharing value, using the mechanisms of employee interest and participation. In the future, we will also have to pursue the legal security provided by these natural changes, taking into account the situation of the individual contractor subject to corporate tax. Observing the concrete effects of the provisions we are voting this evening will help us to improve their possible imperfections in the future. In addition, future financial laws will need to address the fiscal friction resulting from incorporation, a challenge that cannot remain unanswered for ever. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Dem Group, I invite you to vote for the compromise text that we are considering tonight. It is the last milestone of Emmanuel Macron's quinquennium and his majority in economic matters, to free growth and activity. We can congratulate ourselves on that. Tomorrow it will occupy a central place in the daily lives of our fellow citizens and all entrepreneurs who will start their activities in the individual form. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] We now have to explain, throughout the country, to each of our fellow citizens, the value of these reforms in promoting entrepreneurship in France, the only sustainable way to support growth and jobs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u56	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u57	I put the bill as a whole to the vote, given the text of the Joint Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u58	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 82 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 76 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u59	The next item is the debate on the reports of the Joint Joint Committees responsible for proposing a text, on the remaining provisions under discussion of the proposed law to improve the protection of whistleblowers (No 4979) and on the remaining provisions under discussion of the proposed organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting (No 4980). The Conference of Presidents decided that these two texts would give rise to a joint general discussion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u60	I call Mr Sylvain Waserman, rapporteur of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u61	Well, here we are: I have five minutes to conclude three years of work, which began in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the framework of a report that allowed me to forge my convictions, first of all that the whistleblowers are a pillar of our modern societies and that it is up to us, as legislators, to give them their rightful place in our democratic edifice by giving them the protection we owe them. The text that was agreed with the Senate is better than the one that we voted unanimously at first reading in the House. We have clarified a number of concepts, removed some concerns about criminal liability or direct disclosure, and made progress, in particular with regard to the protection of facilitators or groups of companies who can conduct a single procedure for all subsidiaries, or local authorities, who will now be able to delegate this care to their management centres. In a word, we found the right ridge line. The text I am presenting to you today is exactly what I would have presented at second reading if the CMP had failed. [[Applause]] I would also like to tell you how much this text is by its very nature parliamentary and to thank you on this occasion. It is indeed a bill that I wrote with my team: you all know what we owe to our parliamentary teams and I really wanted to thank her. I also thank our administrators, who have done a remarkable job. We are fortunate to have administrators of such a quality. It is a text of a parliamentary nature, also because it has been enriched by the report by Messrs. Marleix and Gauvain, on the limits of existing law, and it is from these limits that we must find the source of the new law. In that regard, the report was a founding document and a major contributor to the text. It has also been enriched by all your participation in the hearings, your amendments, your reflections. Finally, it is a parliamentary text which has been very much fed into the dialogue with civil society, in particular with the Maison des lancers d'alert (MLA) and its members, in particular Transparency International France, as well as the hearings of the Defender of Rights and representatives of the economic world, which have helped us to find this peak line that I have mentioned. This law of parliamentary origin has also benefited from the unwavering support of the Government, first of all from you, Madam Secretary of State, and from Mr Beaune, who were on the bench, as well as from the guard of the seals and his teams, who have been of crucial and exceptional expertise, listening and support. Thank you. I would like to say that this text and your vote today will be a message in itself, first of all to those men and women who expose themselves to reveal the inacceptable or to launch an alert, but also to all those who say that Parliament is of no use. I say to them: "Look at our work, look at what Parliament is doing today; listen to his loud and clear voice, which resonated so well when we voted unanimously on this text at first reading. Look at this added parliamentary value that comes true once again before you. » This is finally a message to our European partners, because I do not forget the role of the European Parliament and the directive, nor that of the Council of Europe, whose reflection on the rule of law is constantly boiling. I think that we have drawn up – this is in any case the opinion of the Maison des lancers d'alert – the best legislation in Europe on the subject of whistleblowers. France thus affirms a leading role in Europe on this major subject. [[Vif applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, standing here before you after these three years of work, calling on you today to vote massively on this text is a highlight of my mandate, of my very life. As we are about to consolidate a new pillar of our democracy, I would like to conclude with Edward Snowden's reply when I asked him in 2019 at his first hearing by the Council of Europe: "What can we do for you? "Nothing," he replied, "but it's not the subject. The subject is how you will answer the questions of women and men who, tomorrow, will hesitate to launch an alert. Today, our assembly gives them a new, solid and just answer. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u62	The Secretary of State for Youth and Engagement has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u63	You are now considering a bill to improve the protection of whistleblowers and a proposal for an organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting. These two texts were examined successively by the National Assembly and the Senate, according to a procedure, albeit accelerated, but which crowns years of work. They have just been agreed in Joint Joint Committees. I do not hide my deep satisfaction at the outcome of an exemplary work of co-construction led by Parliament and the Government and a constructive dialogue between the two assemblies, civil society and associations, leading to a balanced and ambitious text. This was frankly not gained in advance as the legislation on whistleblowers is a complex challenge for our time. It is necessary to protect those who work for the common good, without encouraging those whose statements are dishonest and whose aim is only to harm the organization they target. A text on whistleblowers is thus the point of a delicate balance: to organize a framework to effectively collect alerts, without encouraging settlement of accounts; to provide effective protection to those whose conduct is virtuous. I would like once again to express the Government's conviction and satisfaction: the texts presented today will ensure that this balance is balanced with a very high degree of ambition, efficiency and legal certainty. Before I turn to the most important aspects of these advances, I would like, on my behalf and on behalf of the Government, to pay tribute to the particularly remarkable work done by Parliament in recent months. These texts are among those to be remembered. We certainly didn't leave a white leaf. Many specific devices already allow alerts to be launched on specific subjects. Especially since the law of December 2016, known as Sapin 2, France has a general and ambitious warning system. Similarly, the European Directive of 23 November 2019, which was adopted with the active support of the Government and the example of the French law, set new imperative objectives for our national framework. If they ensure full transposition of the directive, the texts before us go far beyond the European objectives. It is the pride of this Parliament to remind him. They enable us to maintain our national alert system at the forefront of the protection of whistleblowers in Europe and even in the world. This success is first and foremost the result of the rapporteur's work, both in terms of substance and method. It has been able to put its proposals within this complex normative framework, and to work towards a balanced text while maintaining the concern, both for the correct transposition of the provisions of the directive and for such a French vanguard. To this end, he was able to draw not only on his personal experience, but also on the ideas and concerns expressed by all stakeholders, as well as on the quality of the parliamentary work done on all these benches. The protection of whistleblowers is a debate that concerns our society and the Government welcomes the fact that it has found its place in our parliament. The Government itself has contributed to this by launching a major public consultation at the beginning of last year on the website of the Ministry of Justice. All participants should again be thanked for their full contribution to the balance of this important text. Your listening, Mr rapporteur, has allowed all constructive ideas to be integrated, and then to convince and gather around your proposals far beyond our political family, until we reach unanimous adoption at first reading in this House. This constructive work has been able to find a positive response from the Senate, and in particular from the rapporteur Catherine Di Folco, who has sought, with a great deal of open mind, to improve this text and has succeeded in many aspects. The Government welcomes the fact that the Joint Joint Committees have been able to select the best elements of the work of each assembly and have been able to produce texts that are even better than those adopted here at first reading. I would like to recall the most important aspects of these two legislative proposals, first of all the simplification of the alert procedures and the transposition which led to the abandonment of the hierarchy of internal and external channels, which raised so many difficulties. French law will continue to encourage the use of the internal channel, because the alert is usually dealt with more effectively, but it will no longer be a mandatory prerequisite for the whistleblower. Secondly, the reform extends protection beyond the only whistleblower: relatives of the whistleblower, his family, colleagues, legal persons associated with him, and anyone who helps him during the procedure, i.e. the "facilitators", will be able to benefit from the same protection. This extension will draw a real circle of protection around the whistleblower and help break his isolation. The Government welcomes the fact that the Joint Joint Commission has retained the possibility for non-profit legal persons to be considered facilitators, thereby providing them with such protection, which is a genuine need. Thirdly, the reform simplifies the landscape of warning devices. It provides a unique and accessible framework for dealing with alerts, both internal and external. The latter will be designated by order-in-council, which will allow the whistleblower to know who to turn to. As a result of the amendments to the Organic Law, the Defender of Rights will also be able to play his or her full role of counselling and guidance. On this point, the Government will submit to you an amendment to secure the establishment of an assistant to the Defender of Rights in charge of whistleblowers, which the Senate has introduced into the organic law. In addition, the reform allows for the removal of several sectoral procedures and the harmonisation of a general scheme, with the sole aim of facilitating the organisation of the processing of internal alerts. Finally, the text puts in place effective tools to combat so-called gag procedures, which consist of instrumentalizing justice to intimidate or silence whistleblowers. From now on, they will be able to obtain from the judge, within a very short period of time and at the beginning of the dispute, the taking over of their legal costs by their opponent. These gag procedures will also be severely punished. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the European directive did not impose such an ambitious reform on us, but it is ultimately the honour of this Parliament to have gone so far and to respond with this vanguard proposal. Your work has made it possible, with great consistency, to pose and, I hope, to adopt these protections. This reform clearly clarifies and reaffirms the French model, a singular model that honours us, drawn first by the Sapin 2 law: that of the right balance allowing to remove those who can be called opportunists but, above all, to grant effective protection to those who have the courage to defend the general interest. The Government reiterates its full support for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u64	In the general debate, Mrs Cécile Untermaier, the first speaker, spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u65	In the introduction, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his bill and the working method used, involving all the actors. We need to move towards the best protection of the general interest, and that requires protecting the risky commitment of our citizens. We are still far from it, if we look at the fate of whistleblowers around the world – how can we not think of the vain actions undertaken to grant political asylum to Julian Assange? The position of the Senate at the beginning of the work of the CMP was unacceptable. Its provisions represented a step backwards from the law existing in France, in particular the Sapin 2 law, and were therefore illegal with regard to the non-regression clause contained in the directive. I shall elaborate on two points in particular. The first is that the proposed law has succeeded in the difficult balance of keeping the broad scope of the Sapin 2 law of 2016 and transposing the progress of the European directive and protecting whistleblowers by safeguarding the protected secrets and the interests of the people in question. The major advance in this text is the removal of the hierarchy of reporting channels – internal, external, and then public disclosure – since the possibility is now available to directly seize the external channel, i.e. the justice system, the Defender of Rights, professional orders or administrative authorities. On public disclosure, which will be allowed as a last resort if no response has been provided by the external channel, we expect the decree to specify a period of time as short as possible and, in any event, less than six months. We welcome, first of all, the return to a more comprehensive and therefore protective definition of whistleblowers; Second, the protection of facilitators, legal persons who have assisted whistleblowers; Finally, the solution that has been found to cover the costs of justice for the defence of the whistleblower, financed by a provision to be paid by the striker and pronounced by the judge – it seems to us to be an important element. My second point concerns the work to protect whistleblowers, which is far from complete. We all know the price to be paid for those who dare to tell the truth in the public interest. An improvement in their protection will require more psychological and financial support, with the creation of an ad hoc fund. We know that Article 9 is almost inoperative and that the competent external authorities are unable to put in place such a mechanism. The step we will have to take will be to allow the whistleblower to disappear for the benefit of a legal person, who may have this vocation to fight corruption or to defend the general interest, and who often has the necessary resources and remains less exposed than the whistleblower. Finally, we must encourage the deployment of internal channels, particularly in administrations, as they are almost absent in the public service. This is part of the ethical culture that we want to disseminate. We may regret the analysis that the free use of an external channel will encourage governments or public enterprises to establish an internal network. This alone bet on incitement may reflect a lack of political affirmation of the fight against corruption and the harm to the public interest. The public service, in its broadest sense, must reflect through its commitments this quest for demand and exemplaryness, to which we are committed. Finally, if the organic law provides for the creation of a deputy to accompany whistleblowers, to which we are very much in favour, then the financial means must be at the rendezvous of this new right. In conclusion, whistleblowers are not the alpha and omega of the rule of law, but one of its components. The alert is not a substitute for the appropriate control mechanisms to be put in place by the public authorities. The latest revelations about the dramatic management of certain EPHADs pursue the objective of the general interest and, if the State responds by conducting investigations, it does not fulfil its office if it does not put in place a control mechanism that can prevent serious breaches reported. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The protection of whistleblowers is part of the virtuous development of a ethical culture that we all must take over at all levels. Unsurprisingly, the Socialist and Related Group will vote for this text. We do not fear, you see, to support the positive texts of our Assembly, and it is without hesitation that we will do so here.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u66	Mrs Alexandra Louis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u67	Because they are part of the visions of democracy, whistleblowers deserve our full attention and, above all, effective protection. It is therefore the honour of our Parliament to have reached an agreement in the Joint Joint Committee after parliamentary work and constructive discussions. As noted, this is an ordinary law and an organic law aimed at strengthening the protection of whistleblowers and strengthening the role of the Defender of Rights in relation to reporting. We welcome the work of our rapporteur, Sylvain Waserman, who, within the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2019, had already adopted a recommendation in line with the texts we are studying today. I have the honour, together with the chairman of my group, Olivier Becht, and my colleague Dimitri Houbron, to be a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we have been working on this subject for three years, proof of the vitality and importance of these European institutions. The Action Together Group strongly supports the two texts presented today, which it has co-signed with the other groups of the majority. More than ever, whistleblowers play a decisive role in any open and democratic democracy. As the latest news with the Orpea affair and the publication of the book Les Fossoyeurs by journalist Victor Castanet have shown, the whistleblowers bring to light the dysfunctions of our society. It is therefore essential that public authorities ensure their safety in the face of the personal and professional risks they take by their revelations. Their recognition and the effectiveness of their legal protection against all kinds of reprisals constitute a genuine democratic marker. If the Sapin 2 law had made France one of the best legally equipped countries to prevent corruption and protect its whistleblowers, this text will transpose an important European directive that further refines our legal arsenal. On some points, this bill goes even further than the directive requires in terms of protection. For example, facilitators will be protected, whether they are legal persons or natural persons, whereas the directive only called for the protection of natural facilitators. Thus, a trade union or association assisting a whistleblower can be protected. The bill to improve the protection of whistleblowers is bold and ambitious. All in all, it is at the height of what a great democracy like France has to put in place. For example, Article 5 will strengthen the protection of whistleblowers from reprisals and gag procedures. This reminds me of a scene from the magnificent film La Fille de Brest, devoted to the Mediator's case: Irène Frachon is seen there asking his lawyer to amend his marriage contract to prevent that in case of reprisals from the laboratories Serving her husband and family be financially affected. With Article 2 of this bill, which gives strong protection to the facilitators who helped the whistleblowers, the CNAM "Santa Noël" – Caisse nationale de l'assurance maladie – may have dared to communicate the information more quickly. Perhaps under the law that we are going to pass, we could have avoided a few hundred deaths. Finally, Article 3, ending the three-stage disclosure procedure provided for by the Sapin 2 Act, is a fundamental step forward in this text: it is a guarantee of readability, simplicity and pragmatism for whistleblowers. I have defended in open session, together with the members of my group and the majority, amendments which will allow the judge to allocate a provision to cover the subsidies of the party whose financial situation has deteriorated seriously as a result of the report. Finally, I would like to have a word for the proposal for an organic law, which expands the duties of the Defender of Rights, with a view to accompanying whistleblowers, extending them to facilitators and other persons connected with them. The Senate Law Committee has completed the proposal for an organic law by, inter alia, providing that the Defender of Rights be assisted by a special assistant for the support of whistleblowers. I welcome this contribution and will obviously vote for the Government's amendment to clarify that this position will not be exercised on a voluntary basis – which seems quite obvious. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, the Group of the European People's Party welcomes the broad cross-party consensus on this text, both in substance and in form. The CMP report shows how effectively the two chambers have worked towards the conclusion of an ambitious text, up to the height of a great democracy such as ours. It is with great pride that the Action Group will vote for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u68	Mr Michel Zumkeller has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u69	To stop the scandals, to allow everyone to fulfil his duty as a citizen by denouncing facts of exceptional gravity or danger of which he may be aware, is a real step forward in our democratic system. As my colleague Philippe Dunoyer mentioned at first reading, whistleblowers are in a way "responsibles of modern times". To provide, in return, the necessary protection for this act of courage is now obvious, as these actions are beneficial. A legal framework was needed, and that is what the Sapin 2 law brought in 2016. This law on transparency, the fight against corruption and the modernization of economic life defined, for the first time, the concept of a whistleblower and placed disclosure in a specific procedure. In the light of the latest scandals, it was necessary to take stock of its implementation five years later. Thanks to the work carried out by the two assemblies – of course I am thinking of our colleagues Sylvain Waserman, Olivier Marleix and Raphaël Gauvain, not to mention our colleague Senator Catherine Di Folco – we have been able to identify the shortcomings of this text and the areas for improvement. This revision also made this Eurocompatible legal framework, by transposing the provisions of the European Directive of 23 October 2019. Indeed, the 2016 law limited the scope of the concept of whistleblower and the modalities of alerts. On the other hand, too few citizens are aware of the law relating to whistleblowers, and the fear of reprisals or their liability is still too often a hindrance. The text of the CMP addresses these difficulties. We are also pleased that the Assembly and the Senate have been able to reach agreement on a compromise text. This consensus is all the more laudable because the parliamentary shuttle announced itself delicate, because finding the right balance between the protection of whistleblowers, the safeguarding of the protected secrets and the interests of the people in question was not easy. With my IDU and Independent Group, I particularly welcome the removal of the hierarchy of appeals, the inclusion of facilitators, the new forms of criminal irresponsibility and the strengthening of legal and financial support for whistleblowers. The hearing by the Law Committee and the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Frances Haugen whistleblower demonstrated the need for these measures. The proposal for an organic law strengthening the role of the Defender of Rights also proposes significant changes. This independent administrative authority, which is already competent, particularly with regard to relations with public services, the fight against discrimination and the defence of children's rights, regularly demonstrates its usefulness, especially since more than one Frenchman in two now knows his existence. It is appropriate to increase its prerogatives, in order to make it a recognised and central entity in this field, but also to give it the necessary means of action, by creating a position of assistant specifically assigned to whistleblowers, like the thematic assistants in office with the Defender of Rights. Finally, like any new legal framework, this law will call, in a second stage, the question of its effectiveness. Drawing on the lessons of the Sapin 2 law, it is now necessary to make our fellow citizens aware of the existence of these measures in which we place our hopes, so that they can in practice demonstrate their real effectiveness. Together with my IDU and independent group, we have already identified areas for discussion for our future discussions on the subject, such as financial protection for whistleblowers. The proposal to create a guarantee fund, defended in particular by the Defender of Rights, seems to us to have to make its way. Finally, it remains the question of warning instructions and their effective treatment, including when the competent authority decides not to act on them. This is also a fundamental aspect of ensuring the full effectiveness of these measures. We will then be able to draw on the reports on the overall functioning of the protection of whistleblowers, which the Defender of Rights will now be obliged to publish every two years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group – Marie-France Lorho and Emmanuelle Ménard also applaud]] In view of the progress made towards the benefit of whistleblowers, our independent UDI Group will vote on these texts from the work of the CMP.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u70	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u71	Alerters are essential to our democracy. Many scandalous cases have been revealed thanks to their courageous action. When they disclose information of general interest, they take risks, which may affect their working lives or even their personal lives. As such, they deserve our full support. We welcome the agreement reached in the Joint Joint Committee on these two legislative proposals, which allows the main progress to be maintained and satisfies most of the actors concerned. We would like to thank Mr Sylvain Waserman for his excellent work, in a trans-partisan spirit that honours our Parliament. In France, until 2016, the protection afforded to whistleblowers was limited, applied only in a sectoral way. The Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016 introduced the status of whistleblower, giving a definition in the law. Since then, in our law, any person who reveals a violation of the law or a threat to the general interest has entered, regardless of his or her sector of activity, the category of whistleblowers. This particularly broad definition allows our country to have one of the best protections in this field. This proposal for a law, which transposes a European directive, goes even further than this directive and makes it possible, in particular, to remedy the shortcomings of the Sapin 2 law. Thus, the text contains several salutary advances. First of all, it extends the protection afforded to persons who provide assistance to whistleblowers. Most often non-governmental organizations (NGOs), these facilitators play a key role in the dissemination of the alert. It was necessary to provide them with more advanced protections. The bill also removes the hierarchy of reporting channels, which means that it can now be made directly to an external authority, and not only internally, or even, under certain conditions, directly publicized. Such a measure will facilitate the dissemination of the alert, where internal pressure may be exerted on the whistleblower. The proposal also clarifies the use of competent authorities to receive and deal with alerts. The choice of the Defender of Rights as the authority to guide alerts seems particularly relevant to us. This reaffirms and strengthens the role and usefulness of this institution, which many countries are coming to us and whose role is expected to grow, in our democracy. Finally, the bill strengthens the provisions to protect the perpetrators and those who assist them, including the criminal immunity of whistleblowers. These measures are necessary to ensure their protection, as well as that of all those who assist them. However, this text could have gone even further. Thus, it might have been appropriate to include non-profit legal persons, NGOs, in the definition of whistleblowers, by not limiting the latter to natural persons. Indeed, many whistleblowers want to remain anonymous, and NGOs can relay this alert on their behalf. These associations could therefore enjoy the same level of protection as natural persons, enabling them to replace whistleblowers and to disseminate the alert. Similarly, legal persons facilitating the alert could have benefited from the secrecy of their sources. Above all, we regret the refusal to facilitate the granting of refugee status to foreign whistleblowers, as we proposed by amendment. Indeed, if the Government and the majority really want to complete the process of protecting whistleblowers, they should commit themselves to granting political asylum to whistleblowers at risk today, anywhere in the world. [[Caroline Fiat applauds]] In this respect, we find it regrettable that the motion for a trans-party resolution to grant political asylum to Julian Assange, which our group defended in the Chamber on 4 February, is opposed. The Government cannot at the same time welcome the strengthening of the legal protection of whistleblowers and, when it is given the opportunity to act on a specific case – albeit a particular one – choose to close its eyes. The founder of WikiLeaks has revealed information that is particularly fundamental to the sovereignty of our country, such as the massive espionage of our leaders by our American partner. He is now at risk of one hundred and seventy-five years in prison, in terrible conditions, and has symptoms of psychological torture. To grant him political asylum, as my colleagues in the Libertés et territoires group Jennifer de Temmerman and Jean Lassalle proposed, but also Cédric Villani or François Ruffin, is a fair decision and could have received the support of the majority. Despite this, our group will of course vote on this bill, which is undoubtedly an important step forward for the protection of whistleblowers in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u72	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u73	As rapporteur Sylvain Waserman pointed out, this is an important step. We have been a number of contributors to the transposition of the European directive into our national law, and we are at the end of a process. Of course, you know La France insoumée: we always think that it never goes far enough and that we could do better. Yes, I'm telling you, we're not going far enough and we could have done even better. In particular, we proposed that the Commission for the Compensation of Victims of Crime (CIVI) should provide financial assistance; the creation of an asylum system – which could have applied to Mr Assange and many others; provision is made for psychological or medico-psychological support; that private whistleblowers can integrate into the public service and that those of the public can benefit from facilities to be hired in the private sector, thanks to a kind of bonus granted to the companies that would receive them; Finally, that legal persons can also be recognised as whistleblowers. Of course, I am not opposed to anything in these texts. Say otherwise, I'm in favour of everything they contain. Our group will therefore vote on them, as it did at first reading. I was afraid, after the text was examined in the Senate, that we would be in great difficulty. My fears have been largely blurred and lifted, and that's so much better. I will use the time left in this general discussion to say, as Mrs Kerbarh did before me, that, while we have all made this text work, the Government's attitude does not show that it correctly addresses the issue of whistleblowers. I would like to name a few of them here – I hope those I will not mention will not blame me. I am thinking in particular of Hella Kherief, a caregiver, dismissed for giving the alert in a lucrative private EHPAD – this is not the only one who issued the alert and received no support from the public authorities. I am also thinking of Valérie Murat, in Bordeaux, who launched the alert on pesticides used in vineyards labeled high environmental value (HVE). I am still thinking of Hugo, from the Tricastin power station, who issued the alert several times and even met with the Government, respected the circuit by warning its hierarchy, according to the previous rules and not the ones we are voting for. What has been done with his alerts? We're wondering! Or rather, we know perfectly well that they have not been followed by effect. The last person I would like to mention, because it seems to me particularly evocative of the Government's duplicity towards whistleblowers, is Amar Benmohamed, whom we met and who had been interviewed a few weeks earlier by our colleagues Olivier Marleix and Raphaël Gauvain, as part of their analysis of the Sapin 2 law. We learned that he had been disciplined on January 24 for testifying in camera before Olivier Marleix and Raphaël Gauvain in the National Assembly. He received a reprimand for not warning him that he was going to be interviewed, but for reporting him a posteriori. We even learn that he has a third procedure on his back because he spoke to the press! But what did that brigadier say? What is happening in the jails of the judicial court in Paris, where women and men – especially men – are treated as less than anything, like animals, because of racist discrimination and unacceptable behaviour. Yes, I am going to vote for these texts, yes, I am happy with the parliamentary work we have done, but I cannot let it be assumed that their adoption will mean that the Government is doing everything possible for the whistleblowers. No, there is still work to be done and, although we have improved the protection of whistleblowers, we still have important margins of progress in dealing with alerts, often left fallow or under the carpet. It will not be, of course, if we take the next presidential election...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u74	Adventure!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u75	[[Caroline Fiat applauds]] ...but this will be another story.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u76	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u77	This text is of great quality, and I would like to commend the work done by the rapporteur. However, I would like to convey to you the immense disappointment that was ours when we examined the motion for a resolution put forward by the Libertés et Territoires Group last week. This motion for a resolution could have enabled France, a country of human rights, to live up to its history. By voting for the political asylum for Julian Assange, by allowing him to reside on French soil, free from reprisals and intimidation that he has been subjected to for more than ten years, our country would have honoured itself to guarantee the right to alert and to protect men and women who have been victims of repression. We deplore the bad signal that it sends to future whistleblowers, here and abroad. It also seems paradoxical to examine this text, which is an ambitious text, while the protection of foreign whistleblowers is not included. This is again a very damaging "at the same time". However, we recognize that this bill transposing the European Directive of 23 October 2019 went much further in its provisions, making it a very protective text for whistleblowers in France. It recognizes the role of associations, trade unions and NGOs as facilitators. They are crucial support for these citizens who no longer want to be spectators but actors of our democracy in the service of the general interest. However, we would have liked them to have the same protections as whistleblowers. Moreover, this bill removes the hierarchy of channels, putting an end to the obligation to report criminal acts internally before being able to refer them to an external reporting channel. This provision is welcome, as the risk of reprisals was dangerous and the erasure of evidence posed a risk of stifling the acts committed. In addition, a launcher or whistleblower may publicly disclose information that he or she has "in case of serious and imminent danger". This is an advance that is allowed by the parliamentary shuttle, which our group is particularly pleased with, since this measure was defended by our colleague Marie-George Buffet at first reading. Because the procedures launched against whistleblowers are among the first weapons used to gag them, the provisions adopted in this text to punish them and deter their perpetrators from using them are also good advances. Ensuring whistleblowers that any attempt to retaliate will be punished is one of the most essential and expected protections. We would also like to welcome the guarantee of a financial provision for the whistleblower so that he can defend himself, without having to repay him if he does not win. Finally, it was important to include in the law the absence of criminal liability for any whistleblower "who removes, diverts or holds documents or any other medium containing information of which he has been lawfully acquainted". Indeed, our role is to encourage and protect men and women who act against those who knowingly violate our laws. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM group. – Mr. Philippe Latomb also applauds]] Colleagues, the citizens of our country demand greater transparency, ethics and probity in our public institutions and in private bodies. We welcome the work done on this text and the GDR Group will obviously vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u78	Mr Raphaël Gauvain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u79	France had to transpose the European Directive on the protection of whistleblowers. We had to do this before the end of this legislature; It's done today. This transposition was an opportunity for our country to strengthen our legal arsenal in this area and to improve the status of whistleblowers, as designed, drafted and adopted by the Sapin 2 law of 2016. With this law of 2016, the aim was to recognize the role of whistleblowers, to accompany them and to prohibit reprisals against them, as well as to frame these revelations. The law had defined a real status of the whistleblower, including rights but also duties. It had enabled France to reach the highest standards on the issue. Last July, together with my opposition colleague Olivier Marleix, we conducted an evaluation of the application of the scheme. The results were nuanced, with this paradox that, if the law encouraged whistleblowers to make alerts, in fact it failed to protect them effectively. Alerters are still too often victims of reprisals, and many of them face financial difficulties, while they have sacrificed their professional – and sometimes personal – lives to the public interest. Above all, practice has shown that the protection of whistleblowers is subject to demanding criteria, including unselfishness and the obligation to go through the internal channel as a matter of priority. As a result, whistleblowers fear exposure and lack effective government support. Our report contained a number of proposals that have been widely reflected in this bill. This is particularly the case with regard to the criteria for the admissibility of alerts and self-interest, the financial problems faced by whistleblowers, and – as you have pointed out, Madam Minister – the gag procedures, the term meaning the procedures multiplied by the company, the administration or the person to whom the alert is directed, with the sole aim of destabilising the whistleblower. This is an extremely important point. During the preparatory work, many of the people interviewed alerted us to the real difficulties encountered. On this point, the text is innovating. In particular, it allows the judge to impose a dissuasive civil fine or to charge the opposing party, in the course of the proceedings, the costs of proceedings. We discussed it at length at first reading. The Senate was not in favour of it – at least not completely. The Joint Joint Committee has maintained the Assembly's machinery, which once again provides effective financial guarantees to whistleblowers on these issues. Finally, the Group of the European People's Party considers that the proposal for a law to improve the protection of whistleblowers is undoubtedly a good illustration of what needs to be done in the field of European construction and of the place that France and, first and foremost, the French Parliament must hold in the construction of Europe. It was France that adopted the first protective status as a whistleblower in 2016 and then defended it at European level and led to the adoption of the directive that we are transposing today. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group. – Mme Michèle de Vaucouleurs also applauds]] France did so yesterday as well with regard to the protection of personal data, advocating the extension of its legislation to the European level, which gave the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It still does so today in the fight against hatred on the Internet. Let us hope that it will always do so tomorrow in terms of, for example, the fight against corruption or blocking laws to protect our companies engaged in the world economic war. In terms of European integration, both yesterday and today, France must show the way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u80	Mr Jérôme Nury has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u81	We are about to finally vote on this bill to improve the protection of whistleblowers, as amended by both chambers. This is a subject that the Sapin 2 law had opened, but it did not deal with it in its entirety, according to some. At the end of this parliamentary shuttle, a consensus was reached between MPs and senators. This law will make it possible to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers and to make alert procedures more secure. However, questions remain on the scope of this text in relation to slanderous denunciations, misdeeds and misdeeds by those who sometimes do not hesitate to enter illegally at sites sensitive to national security or at breeding sites,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u83	...as we were able to make the dramatic experience in our rural territories, starting with the Orne. The Sapin 2 law had included in our law the term "alert launcher" and gave recognition to these women and men who, for some, in their soul and conscience and sometimes in spite of their own interests, find resources to denounce acts considered to be contrary to the general interest. With the Sapin 2 law and this text, the whistleblower can no longer be automatically considered as a delator. Its role is recognised, as is the alert, which is now simplified. The drafters of this text considered that the Sapin 2 Act maintained a form of ambiguity, since, in their view, the protection mechanisms did not function sufficiently. To be up to the stakes, without giving way to a certain rigor, they have endeavoured to achieve this balance, without in any case encouraging our compatriots to set themselves up as vigilantes, contrary, moreover, to what some extremist associations asked the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u85	The European Union was forcing us to transpose the 2018 directive on the protection of persons who report violations of EU law, imposing enhanced protection in relation to current French law but limited to the competences of the European Union. States should therefore incorporate European provisions into the status of whistleblowers, while being encouraged by the Directive to go beyond the competences of the Union. This is the path chosen by this bill, which goes further than simply transposing it. Should we be happy about that? Should we be booked? Do we have to worry about it, if drifts up to delation are covered by the law? The proposals made by Olivier Marleix and Raphaël Gauvain,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u87	... in the context of their evaluation report of the Sapin law: the withdrawal of the criterion of unselfishness, the obligation to inform the whistleblower about the follow-up given to his report, the legal security of the status of the confidential information collected by the whistleblower. A word, finally, concerning the proposal for an organic law which establishes the Defender of Rights as an external reference authority to certify the status of whistleblower as well as for any reporting procedure. The Defender of Rights must be the effective protector of the whistleblower. The fact that he certifies that the person in question fits well into an alert approach is the element of objective recognition which seems to be the most serious defect in our legal system. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] The LR Group is aware of the progress made by this text and underlined by many speakers before me, but it is necessary to remain, once again, measured and vigilant so that this law serves only the collective interest and not the particular or ideological interests of groups which are easily and skilfully behind this vague and difficult notion of the general interest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u88	Mr Philippe Latomb has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u89	In recent years, whistleblowers have established themselves as real watchdogs for democracy and the rule of law. Social networks, the massive use of data or environmental issues are now more important than ever. It is imperative to provide them with a high level of protection, up to what we owe them. France has for several years been at the forefront of this issue thanks to the Sapin 2 law of 9 December 2016, which marked a turning point in making the right of alert a real fundamental freedom. In the name of transparency and the preservation of rights and freedoms, it is now essential to ensure that our right is brought up to date. I would therefore like to welcome, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, Sylvain Waserman's remarkable work on the subject. Its proposals for an ordinary and organic law will help to create a clear and coherent legal framework, which will once again enable France to live up to the challenges related to the protection of the right of alert. We welcome the fact that an agreement has been reached with the senators, who, after having adopted a version in hindsight of the Assembly's outcome, have been able to hear the concerns of the whistleblowers, the associations that accompany them and our fellow citizens. By the very admission of the Maison des lancers d'alert, the version of the Joint Joint Committee is even more complete than that which we adopted at first reading. Now we have a common foundation for the protection of whistleblowers reporting a violation of European Union law. We have also opted, and I welcome it, for a broad definition of whistleblowers, more adapted to the realities and challenges of their protection. Similarly, non-profit legal persons fall into the category of facilitators, which is an undeniable step forward for associations protecting the right to alert. The withdrawal of sanctions for abusive alerts introduced by senators is also a good thing. This is a signal of confidence that we send to whistleblowers, who must not act in the constant fear of a sanction, since their action is legal and legitimate. The CMP also reached a compromise on the criteria for public disclosure. The wording found helps to limit the risk of abuse by activists looking for information to be leaked, while remaining within the scope of the directive and ensuring a particularly high level of protection in the professional environment. The text will also give the judge the opportunity to decide at any time on a procedure involving a whistleblower that the provision paid to the latter for his defence is definitively acquired. It was very important to take into account the practical material flexibility of the whistleblower in order to ensure its financial security and to protect it from gag procedures. With regard to criminal irresponsibility, which is a particularly complex subject, since it allows for the protection of whistleblowers who would resort to the offences of subtraction, misappropriation or tightening of information, we have also been able to reach a balanced compromise. The text provides that the whistleblower must have been lawfully aware of the information in question. This is a welcome clarification which, while avoiding inciting the commission of an offence to obtain information, will allow the whistleblower to provide the evidence he holds. Finally, it should be noted that the Senate was also able to make improvements to the text, in particular by providing for the protection of anonymous whistleblowers, whose identity would later be revealed, or by strengthening the role of the Defender of Rights. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve also applauds]] The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group is particularly proud of the two texts by Sylvain Waserman, who will undoubtedly find a broad consensus in this House. They also have a great ambition: to make France the most protective country for whistleblowers in Europe, if not in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u90	The joint general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u91	I now call on the Joint Joint Committee to propose a text on the remaining provisions of the proposed law to improve the protection of whistleblowers. On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the groups La Répubique en marche and Mouvement Démocratique (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I shall first call on the House to take a decision on an amendment before me. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u92	It is purely editorial.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u94	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u95	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u96	I have a few scruples to say – I know the work done by our rapporteur and the energy he has put into it – but I still want to play, in a way, the role of "warning" on a text that I find extremely naive. Why? Because he is at the initiative of a number of people whose requests you have relayed – as you have said with honesty, rapporteur – in particular the Maison des lancers d'alert. Who's one of them? The Landed Economists, Greenpeace or ATTAC, the Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and for Citizen Action. Everyone has the right to defend his opinions, but there is also L214, a structure which is unfortunately well known in the agricultural and livestock sectors. They are activists who call themselves whistleblowers and enter the farms, without breaking anything – not always – but with the aim of denouncing the activity of a particular professional and, beyond that, stigmatizing a whole profession, nailing it to the pillori, pointing a finger at it. However, with this text, these people will now enjoy a criminal liability status. That is to say, they will be given means, even credits – this has been mentioned – and special protection. All this is not neutral, let us not be naive. This happens exactly at the very moment when the Demeter cell, which had been set up by the gendarmerie to defend the farmers attacked, is being dismantled, in particular by the association L214. I recently interviewed a gendarmerie colonel from my constituency, who told me that he was instructed not to allow Demeter to live any longer and not to protect the agricultural world from this type of attack.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u97	That's not it at all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u98	Moreover, the Demeter project's appropriations have been cancelled. This also happens at a time when, despite my efforts and those of my group, we continue to subsidize L214. Indeed, as you know, everyone can help the Red Cross or the Abbé Pierre Foundation; In the same way, we can help L214: if you give it 100 euros, the State will reimburse you 66 euros for donations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u99	Thank you, Mr. Le Fur...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u100	We are worried about this combination. Among the whistleblowers, there are very good people, but there are others who, with regard to some of our industrial agricultural champions, have attitudes that we consider harmful.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u101	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u102	I would like to point out that L214 is the subject of contentious proceedings and that, depending on the actions they commit – unfortunately for them, I regret – the members of this association are sometimes condemned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u103	They're relaxed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u104	They are released for a number of events that fall within the scope of freedom of expression, as were activists who had obtained portraits of Emmanuel Macron, in the context of non-violent actions related to COP21. There have been relaxations in appeal and cassation, because it is the application of the law. Yeah, they're setting an alert. The application of the text is one thing; Those who claim to be whistleblowers are another. Mr. Le Fur, tell you that the Demeter cell has been dismantled. No! It was the subject of a court decision...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u106	The Council of State has not called for the dismantling of Demeter, but for it to stop attacking the freedom of expression and to stop stamping individuals on the basis of their political opinions or opinions,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u107	It's the thought police!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u108	...which is absolutely normal in a democracy and a rule of law. I understand that you find what the L214 activists say unbearable and that you disagree with them. You have the right to say so, but they too have the right to make known what they see and to be protected in case they are unduly challenged.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u109	Demeter is not dismembered!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u110	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u111	I am very pleased that this editorial amendment will clarify a number of things. You are asking extremely important questions, and I would like to answer them for the clarity of our debates and to clarify your vote. The first point concerns the safeguards that exist in the text to guarantee us drifts in which anyone, about any cause, could confuse activism and alerting. Mr.Le Fur, your colleagues in the Senate, in particular Ms.Di Folco, have done a lot of work on the subject and have enabled us to improve the text. I will give a very specific example. According to the Senate's wording, the information must have been obtained lawfully, the only case in which criminal irresponsibility applies. In practice, in a very concrete way, this means that you do not have the right to put microphones in your boss's office to check that there would not be an alert to put you under the tooth, or that you do not have the right to enter an agricultural farm overnight just to see if everything is okay. We do not want such a company – you are right to stress it. The manner in which the text was written, thanks to the Senate, on the lawful way in which information was obtained provided a framework for the concept of criminal irresponsibility. Secondly, I would not like you to let think that what we have built is the result of community lobbying. We auditioned L214 as the National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions (FNSEA); We have heard from employers' organisations as well as trade unions. Of course, we have worked with the community world, which plays a major role in this theme. As rapporteur, I have applied to myself what I advocated in a report on transparency: all the meetings I have had since the day I was appointed rapporteur are published on my website, in full transparency. So every citizen can see how many times I have met such an interest representative, whether it is a cause activist or a representative of economic or private interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u113	I would also like to tell you that L214 is a legal person. Our text does not deal with legal persons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u114	Individuals are the same!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u115	No, it's not the same. The text aims to protect women and men whose lives can be crushed by powerful interests because they have launched an alert. It does not deal with the place of trade unions or associations in France, which are also subject to constitutionally guaranteed freedom. The logic is quite simple. I have seen women and men testify because their lives have been crushed; On the other hand, I have never seen a legal person whose life would have been crushed. The correct peak line we found was the following: we stayed with the natural alerters because we want to protect the women and men who launch alerts, considering that legal persons and in particular associations, which play an important role, can be facilitators. Without being themselves whistleblowers, they can accompany and assist the latter in their work. Mr.Le Fur, you must also trust the work of senators, who belong to your political family and with whom we have been guided by the constant concern to achieve a balance. The fears that you have expressed are entirely legitimate, because tilting the text on one side or the other would indeed have jeopardized the balance that we have tried to build. I believe that with the Senate, we managed to find what I called a just ridge line. Without abusing my speaking time, in a discussion about my editorial amendment, I will allow myself to react on a few points to illustrate again the logic of balance that we have tried to build. Several speakers referred to the case of Julian Assange. I would like to be very clear: on Friday, all the political groups reaffirmed their support for Julian Assange, considering that the risk of 175 years in prison because an alert was issued is an attack on human rights. There is absolutely no doubt about that. I am not going to repeat the debate, but the resolution, quite different from a bill, was to ask the Government not to follow the laws passed by Parliament, according to which a person must be physically present on French soil in order to apply for asylum. All the political groups agreed with the spirit of the motion for a resolution, but the letter of the text could not be followed. I am sorry, but I cannot resolve to ask the Government not to apply the laws we vote on. Let us not deceive ourselves in battle; regarding Julian Assange, there was a real message of support that was sincere. I believe that the right solution is at the level of European law – and that is a proposal I made to the Council of Europe. I am very solemnly speaking to our fellow Members of the European Parliament to say that it is time that, on the basis of common European values, a European right of asylum is being invented, which can, in particular, deal with the case of well-known whistleblowers. There are multiple formulas. I had proposed that some 100 Members from three, four or five countries might in some way sponsor a well-known case by submitting it to the Commission's arbitration. We can invent a lot of devices, but let us not misunderstand: there is a difference between the words of support and the acts of writing laws and changing legislation, which we must now work on at European level.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u116	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u117	The rapporteur's explanation was very comprehensive, but I still wanted to remove a doubt if it still had to persist. It turns out that it was the Government that proposed an amendment to the Senate, following the various debates on criminal irresponsibility. In a word, criminal irresponsibility is only valid if the information is lawfully recovered, therefore legally. It is really an amendment by the Government that has made it possible, in the course of the Senate's work, to clarify article L. 122-9 of the Penal Code. As for the association L214, MP, it is true that it was sentenced by the court for a number of facts, while it was released for others. But the provisions on criminal irresponsibility are very clear and balanced, and that is what has enabled us to reach an agreement with the Senate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u118	We have completed our review of the amendments to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u119	I put to the vote the whole of the bill, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendment just adopted by the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u120	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 60 Number of votes cast 60 Absolute majority 31 For adoption 57 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u121	I now call on the Joint Joint Committee on the proposal for an organic law to strengthen the role of the Defender of Rights in alerting. In accordance with Rule 113(3) of our Rules of Procedure, I call on the National Assembly to rule first on the amendment before me. The Secretary of State has the floor to support Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u122	It turns out that the Senate has wanted – including in CMP – the creation of an assistant to the Defender of Rights, to absorb a growing workload. The Government simply wants to eliminate the voluntary nature of its activity and introduce the possibility of it being remunerated. That is the purpose of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u123	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u124	The opinion is in favour and I would like to add thanks. This amendment comes from the Senate; in this case, Mr.Le Fur, the dialogue between the National Assembly and the Senate has allowed, as was said earlier, to ease the fears that some – of which you – could express. Once again, we, the Senate and ourselves, have largely and precisely addressed these concerns, including through the solution proposed by the Government and established in the course of our work. I would add that we owe this measure to an excellent idea of the Senate: since French law on alerting is at the forefront in Europe, and since this right is not stabilized – it is being built and will have to be implemented – the creation of an assistant to the Defender of Rights in charge of accompanying whistleblowers will, in the first place, make it possible to carry out the necessary follow-up, to establish and sustain the momentum that we call for. It was an idea of the Senate; The Government has responded positively to this situation with a clear framework – it was necessary to move on from article 40 and thus find a way to assert that the creation of such a post really met a critical need. I therefore thank the Government for its positive response.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u125	Mr Marc Le Fur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u126	Mr rapporteur, you are an honest man, but I still think that this text is naïve to some people who do not have good intentions for our economy, for our businesses and for all those who are trying to move our country forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u127	I mean, we're talking about CAC40!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u128	I took the example of the farmers attacked by L214; I could have taken another one, but I find it very revealing. It is this association that has long been calling for such a text to be adopted! It's a reality! They have had petitions signed on the Internet about this. Your action is unquestionable, but it stems from a number of requests that have been made in particular by this association, whether we like it or not! You tell us that the status of whistleblower will only benefit natural persons and not associations. Of course, but the associations are composed of natural persons, who will act...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u129	We're not going to debate again!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u130	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] Yeah, we're gonna do the debate, and you're not gonna censor me! I will defend our agricultural world here; You can count on me to do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, let President Le Fur speak, please.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u132	Thank you. I apologize, Mr President, but I believe that in the Chamber we cannot censor; It would also be paradoxical to give considerable power to people outside this forum by making them criminally irresponsible, while at the same time removing the possibility for some to express themselves here. So I said that the association L214 wanted this text: it has it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u133	I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u134	It's not the only one, I agree, but she got the text she wanted. The associations will act through natural persons, of course; Moreover, as "facilitators", the status you have created, they will accompany natural persons when they are subject to criminal prosecution because they have entered private premises. All this is in the text, you cannot deny it! I'm not saying it's your will, but I'm just translating the text. Let's stop being naive: there are people in France who want to work and want to undertake; They may make mistakes – not everything is perfect – but let's stop always giving the opportunity to speak louder to people who are against everything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u135	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u136	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Mr Le Fur, I understand your position, but I do not agree with it at all. First, some of your honourable senators have worked for weeks on this text, which was voted unanimously in the Senate; You therefore consider that the senators of the Republicans – from your political family – who have all voted in favour and who have all supported the CMP, have been naive to him by not seeing that he is likely to facilitate the actions of a particular activist. That's very little to do with their work!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u137	That's your only argument!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u138	I will give you some examples of safeguards. The fear that militant funds would play a role as pseudo-alert launchers for the purpose of misappropriation of the procedure was expressed, in particular by employers' organisations. It was therefore made very clear that the purpose should be non-profit: the bill thus excludes all those activist funds that some organizations could rightly fear, and on which they had drawn our vigilance. So there is no naivety on our part! I also understand that you want to express your solidarity with farmers. I also assert this forcefully: no one has the right to enter their private property, simply to see if there is an alert to be launched, and my text does not bring any comfort to an association or activists who would like to violate the right to try to enter an agricultural farm night, for example to place microphones on it. Let us be very clear about this! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Finally, Mr Le Fur, farmers can also be whistleblowers. I have seen testimonies from farmers who believe they have caught cancers because they have handled dangerous products; When they're warning, we'll be at their side. And you know what? Legal persons will accompany them, because they will have attacked powerful interests and will have to protect them. Let us not try to oppose the agricultural world and the protection of whistleblowers: we will be at the side of each of the women and men who have the courage to reveal the unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u139	We have completed our review of the amendments to the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u140	I shall put to the vote the whole of the proposal for an organic law, taking into account the text of the Joint Joint Committee, as amended by the amendment just adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u141	Mr Le Fur has the floor for a point of order.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u142	[[All Members Rise and Applause]] I hear the bronca manifesting. My point of order has nothing to do with our debates, but it turns out that our presiding officer is probably carrying out his last sitting of the current legislature – so that things are very clear, it is not a question of taking away his future perspectives. I would therefore like to greet him and recall that he spent eight hundred and ninety hours in 254 meetings in this place. It turns out that I'm well enough to know that exercise isn't always easy and that sometimes it's stressful. Personally, at least, I wanted to pay tribute to him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Le Fur, for this point of order. Evidently, some are easier and more enjoyable to manage than others; Thank you, therefore, for your warm words that touch me. They touch me all the more as they are spoken by you, who are a figure in the House and who are for many an example. I would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to express to you the immense honour that I have had in presiding over our sittings, our debates, and in making the democratic debate and the plurality of opinions live from this very special place. These views are diverse; They are free and all must be respected. [[Applause on all benches]] I would also like to thank all the agents, collaborators and officials who guarantee the proper functioning of the National Assembly. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen – I know we share this view – nothing is more valuable than our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-08-O1151.u144	Next sitting, tomorrow, at 3 p.m.: Discussion of the proposed law to modernise the regulation of the art market; Discussion, on the report of the Joint Joint Committee, of the draft law on the recognition of the Nation towards the harkis and other persons repatriated from Algeria formerly of civil status under local law and compensation for the damage suffered by them and their families as a result of the indignity of their reception and living conditions in certain structures on French territory; Discussion, in new reading, of the bill to democratise sport in France. The meeting is adjourned.
