ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the institutional and political future of New Caledonia, following the third consultation on the accession to full sovereignty with a view to the end of the process defined by the Nouméa Agreement. We come to the questions. I would like to point out that the length of the questions, as well as the length of the answers, is limited to two minutes. There is no right of reply. Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u2	These are actually a few observations rather than stricto sensu questions. During his speech this afternoon, Mr.Brotherson made two challenges. On the one hand, he used, with regard to the December 12 consultation, the concept of "recolonization vote", inasmuch as the independents had decided not to participate. On the other hand, he explained that the chosen date could under no circumstances be chosen since the independents had decided that they would not be able to participate. Let me share with the national representative my appreciation on these two points. First, the right to self-determination was originally a claim of the independents dating back to the late 1970s and early 1980s, which was translated into the Matignon Accords. This right to self-determination, originally claimed by indigenous peoples, has now become a Caledonian right. While Caledonians of customary Kanak status are of course allowed to participate in a referendum on this issue, all other Caledonians are also allowed to participate in a referendum on this issue. Indicatively, out of the 185,000 voters in the last referendum, who were on a list of electors, 100,000 were ordinary-law and 85,000 were customary-status voters. Second, the independenceists had accepted the date of 12 December. They had even organized a congress to conduct an election campaign, which had begun. It was the arrival of the virus in early September that led them to decide not to participate. Would we postpone the campaign for the presidential election because the incidence rate reaches 700 people infected per 100,000 inhabitants in metropolitan France? I don't think so. An important vote must be possible. Health conditions are what they are, but democracy must continue to be exercised; it cannot be frozen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u3	The next speaker is the Minister for Overseas Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u4	MP Gomès is right to refute any ethnic approach to voting, which would be a gross mistake. On the one hand, there are no Kanaks, who would be independents, and on the other hand, the non-Kanaks, who would not. No, there are Caledonian citizens who form an electoral corps divided into three different lists of electors depending on the situation: the general list of electors, the provincial special list of electors and the special list of electors for consultation. The second represents the heart of Caledonian citizenship, which comes in addition to French and European citizenship – there is thus a triple citizenship. Any approach based on membership in a political formation or, worse, on an origin, would have no meaning and would not correspond to what the law says, whether it is the Constitution or the organic law. While the law recognizes a customary status, it does not say anything more. With regard to the date, what would it have been said or done if a loyalist political party had not participated in the election, i.e. had the reverse pattern been dealt with: the independents would have asked for a date, the state would have set one within the framework of its competences and then the loyalist political groups would have said that they would not participate in the referendum? Well, we would probably have done the same thing, keeping the date. If the agreement provides that it is the State that sets the date and that it is the ministers who sign the decrees calling the voters, it is because, within the framework of this three-party agreement, it is logical that one-third of confidence is the one that sets the dates according to the terms – which I recalled earlier in the gallery – provided for by this agreement. Not only are MP Gomès's analysis relevant, but they also gave me the opportunity to provide further clarification on two key points that must be taken into consideration if a solution is to be found for the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u5	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u6	I wish to draw your attention to the relations between New Caledonia and Wallis and Futuna. I would like to greet Sylvain Brial, Member of Parliament for this constituency, who would have so much liked to be present today. As you know, 30,000 to 40,000 Wallisians and Futunians live in New Caledonia and participate directly in local economic and political life. It is in Nouméa that the inhabitants of Wallis-et-Futuna must surrender to meet many of their vital needs. It is the nearest health centre, the supply point, the essential place for vocational training and university studies. Consequently, Caledonian institutional uncertainties place social, economic and political uncertainties on the Wallisian and Futunian communities. The elected representatives of this community will have to be involved in the negotiations on possible constitutional developments, but also pay the utmost attention to the specific agreements between the two territories. Discussions on the possible constitutional evolution of New Caledonia necessitate a review of the specific situation of the community of Wallis and Futuna and its relationship with Hexagon. On the one hand, there cannot be a territory with the most autonomous status of the Republic – New Caledonia – and, on the other hand, the territory with the least autonomous status, Wallis-et-Futuna, where executive power is provided by the representative of the State and not by an elected president, unlike other territorial authorities – which brings the status of the territory back to the pre-1982 hexagonal departments. This difference between the two territories is evident to the Wallisian and Futunian population, whose strong ties with New Caledonia have been recalled. In this constitutional evolution, the State will therefore have to play a much more proactive role than the prefectural institution does. A window of opportunity will soon appear since, as you know, the territorial elections in Wallis-et-Futuna will take place on 20 March and will allow for a new round of reflection on this issue. The Libertés et territoires Group has welcomed the idea, which you have taken up, Mr Minister, of a discussion on strengthening the autonomy of the ultramarine territories. Do you consider it possible to give Wallis-et-Futuna more autonomy in order to bring its status closer to that of the other overseas territories? If so, how? Could this be done through the transfer of the territorial management authority from the superior administrator to an elected assembly, the territorial assembly of Wallis-et-Futuna?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u8	You're asking me several questions in one. The Pacific constitutes a whole within which, obviously, the archipelago of Wallis and Futuna, for eminently geographical reasons, is particularly dependent on New Caledonia. Who currently protects the exclusive economic zone around Wallis-et-Futuna? The FANC, the armed forces of New Caledonia. Where is the Court of Appeal of Wallis-et-Futuna territory? To Nouméa. It is clear that the interdependence of these territories, including at the level of state organizations, creates a singular link between them. I thank you for asking this question and for making you the spokesman for the archipelago of Wallis and Futuna, all too often forgotten. Of course, it is distant and sparsely populated. However, its place in French history is absolutely central – some regiments of our armies are enough to attest to the contribution of Wallisians and Futunians. They will have to be associated with the work, as we have begun to do. I explained to you earlier the methodology that was ours for the document "yes/no" – thus answering the question asked this afternoon by Maina Sage. We have set up workshops with the Wallisian and Futunian elected representatives and with the Polynesian elected representatives, on the assumption that the possible independence of New Caledonia would have very direct effects on all the other territories of the Pacific – Polynesia and Wallis and Futuna. Secondly, the question of the institutional future of Wallis-et-Futuna must be asked calmly. To be honest with you, I was thinking of getting to grips with it, but the crisis of the Covid-19 changed the situation on the territory, the epidemic having been experienced in a very violent way. We must also take into account, as you know, customary issues. Indeed, the Gallisian and Futunian institutions are not limited to the territorial assembly. If this is the only assembly of the archipelago – which does not include any commune, department or region – there are kingdoms with three official chiefdoms recognized by the French Republic, two in Futuna and one in Wallis. Of course, all these issues will have to be raised at the beginning of the next quinquennium. Expectations are high, as we have seen in recent weeks with debates about the territorial civil service. So here's a good file for the start of the next legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u9	Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u10	In my view, to consider that the referendum of 12 December resolved the question of New Caledonia's membership of France would be the source of many disillusionments and future problems. That would be to hide behind the rule of law by ignoring legitimacy. In your reply to the various interventions, at the end of this afternoon's sitting, I thought I heard a lot of caution on this subject, more than I had heard so far from a member of the Government. How can we imagine that a referendum organized under such conditions can be seen as legitimate by the majority of New Caledonians? The health situation, marked by a resurgence of the coronavirus epidemic affecting the Kanak and Oceanian populations, had led the independent organizations to request the postponement of the referendum. As they were not listened to, they called for a massively followed-up boycott. I would remind you that the abstention rate in the first two referendums provided for in the Nouméa agreement was 19% in 2018 and 14.3% in 2020. In the referendum of 12 December last year, this rate reached 56 per cent, or more than half of the electorate. This passage in force was a mistake. The three decades since the painful events in New Caledonia had been marked by a spirit of compromise. The sense of listening to the various parties involved had made it possible to calm the situation and avoid civil war. In attempting to close a thirty-year process to forceps, the Government had indeed committed a fault, jeopardized those gains and rekindled tensions. Without acting wisely, the Government believes that it can cling to the wisdom of the negotiators of the Nouméa Accord, who had foreseen that, whatever the outcome of the last referendum, it would be followed by a final phase of negotiations, either, in the event of a victory of the yes, to define the conditions for New Caledonia's access to full sovereignty, or, in the event of a victory of the no, to determine the status of the island, this phase to be concluded by a new referendum scheduled for 30 June 2023. You said earlier that constitutional reform was desirable without my understanding of which territories it is mentioned, how they are defined. You said that she would not be hired before the presidential election, which I think is wise. It would seem dangerous to consider that the Nouméa Agreement process has come to an end and that we have moved on to another stage. These agreements form a whole, whose final phase of negotiation is jeopardized by your method. Before thinking about the institutional future of New Caledonia, how do you intend to re-establish the conditions for dialogue and allow an end to the crisis created by the Government?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u11	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u12	Without a polemic mind, you will allow me to consider that the present government, no more than the previous one, has not created the binary and frozen situation in New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u13	I was talking about the organization!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u14	None of the signatories of the Nouméa Accord, still alive, with whom I was able to discuss – whether they were independent or not – at the time imagined that we would go until the third referendum and that we would face such a divided situation. As I said earlier, I do not confuse legality and legitimacy. The result of 12 December, with a 97 per cent "no", is legal but, obviously, it must not be overinterpreted – the Government will never do so, I give you my word and I commit myself to it. I note in passing that this vote is interesting from the point of view of cartography since, as MP Gomès said earlier, the map of abstention on 12 December broadly corresponds to the map of the vote "yes" in the first and second referendums. Since December 12th, my word has been freer. But the reality – for having conducted many consultations – is that, basically, no one wanted this binary confrontation between the "yes" and the "no". This does not mean, however, that the desire for independence had diminished among some and that the desire to remain in the Republic had diminished among others. The Nouméa agreement had been conceived taking into account many factors, which I recalled earlier – a desire to rebalance, for example – but no one thought that this process would lead to such a frozen scenario. Tomorrow, historians and observers may wonder whether the Government or parliamentarians, within the framework of this legislature, could not have imagined new ways out of this situation, especially between the first and second referendums, and then between the second and the third. As for me, I tried to do so at my level in the aftermath of the second referendum, but basically everyone agreed, especially during the so-called Lepredour talks, which were confidential and lasted eight hours, that unfortunately, since the mechanism was already largely in place, we would not be able to get out of it. We must now be respectful of everyone's aspirations and, as I said in the general discussion, I do not feel the will of anyone on the spot to maintain a status quo and to freeze things, nor does anyone ask for New Caledonia to become a regional council in the Republic. It will be necessary to leave with great caution and wisdom at the beginning of the next quinquennium to carry out discussions up to what was the Matignon agreement in 1988 and the Nouméa agreement in 1998, bearing in mind that the electoral corps's response has nevertheless been, three times in a different way, the maintenance in the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u15	Mr Moetai Brotherson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u16	I am not going to go back to your interpretation of the December 12 referendum, Mr.Minister, but you confirm the concern expressed to me by the pro-independence camp about the continuation of the discussions. By the way, I would like to take this opportunity to correct the term used by my colleague from France: there was no boycott of this referendum but a non-participation – the shade is of size.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u18	However, depending on the method to be used, non-participation could turn into a boycott; That's the message I'm relaying. My question is to broaden the debate and preach for my parish. In New Caledonia, a process of decolonization has been taking place for years under the aegis of the United Nations and in good intelligence. In the same geographical area, however, there is a second territory, French Polynesia, which has also been included – again since 17 May 2013 – in the same list of territories to be decolonized by the United Nations. And there is a kind of schizophrenia – forgive me the word – on the part of the State which, in one case, works in good intelligence with Caledonia and the United Nations and, in the other, is in a situation of denial, as if the 2013 re-registration had not taken place, and refuses to come to the negotiating table. I therefore ask you today if you think that after the next elections, the future government – if you are part of it, what I wish you to do – will finally start discussions under the aegis of the United Nations regarding French Polynesia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u19	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u20	In any case, you are right about semantics: boycott is not non-participation. In this case, the independent political parties took part in the organisation of the election. Words make sense, you have to remember. With regard to French Polynesia and this famous list, history is not completely the same since this archipelago has made round trips, according to the democratic choices of Polynesians and Polynesians over the years. You know something about being close to leader Oscar Temaru, who has been leading the independence movement in Polynesia for many years. I will not offend anyone by saying that I have sought personally to meet the mayor and former president Temaru on my last trip to French Polynesia, but in vain. We are always listening to all the people and to all the political parties, but we agree that the government of Édouard Fritch, as it emerged from the polls in several territorial elections, shows a very clear commitment by the territory to the membership of French Polynesia, within a framework of autonomy, in the French Republic; This is the context that prevails. Since you wish me to remain a member of the Government after the presidential election, I wish you again, Mr. Member of Parliament, and to defend the independent cause before the voters of your constituency in Polynesia. We may be able to discuss these issues during the next quinquennium. In any case, and I come back to that, comparison is not correct, even between the history of French Polynesia and that of New Caledonia over the past forty years, as you know well, because of different orientations. I note in passing that a former Minister of Jacques Chirac, well known to you, now holds very independent positions. For someone who has incarnated the state, it's curious to say the least... How complex things are and never completely frozen in time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u21	Mrs Stéphanie Atger has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u22	On 12 December, Caledonians made France's choice of membership of the Republic. This referendum, the third in four years, punctuated the end of the Nouméa Accord. A new period will open, during which it will be up to all stakeholders to take stock of the agreement signed in 1998 and subsequently to start discussions on the future of the archipelago. These discussions will have to take into account the aspirations of the entire Caledonian population, and the refusal of the independence supporters to take part in the final consultation will obviously be to be taken into account, as will the refusal of the independent strategic committee of non-participation to engage in "real discussions on the country's accession to its full sovereignty" before 24 April, a political, ideological and calendar parameter to be taken into consideration. As you said, minister, let's not confuse speed with haste. We'll be at the dialogue meeting. While you have announced the holding of a "project referendum" within 18 months on a new status of New Caledonia within France, many legal phases will have to be implemented – constitutional revision, revision of the organic law – phases on which our Pacific compatriots will also be consulted; Parliament will also be at the meeting. Can you tell the national representative how the Government intends to bring all the actors concerned back to the negotiating table in order to equip the Caillou with a new project of society within France of the three oceans?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u23	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u24	The timetable, first of all: I repeat, under the control of the Member of Parliament Philippe Gomès here, who lives on the Caillou, that there are still three preliminary questions which are of direct concern to the population, starting with the future of the three nickel plants, and more particularly of two of them, whose employees have an interest in questioning their fate. We need to be mobilized on this point. Secondly, the financial question is not vulgar, on the contrary, since it is the question of the sustainability of autonomy and therefore of the continuity of public services. Here too, we are fully mobilized, and you are with us. Finally, it is difficult to plan for the future without taking stock of the past. As I said earlier in response to President Mélenchon's statement, this remains a process of decolonization. I recalled it on a well-known television channel a few weeks ago, and everyone shouted for orfray because unfortunately there is no more Caledonian culture in Paris – that's how it is. Because we have devoted thirty years to a particularly complex process, it is normal to define evaluation tools with the United Nations. It's a bit like our friend's marotte, Congress President Roch Wamytan, but I think all the signatories and political parties in Caledonia are interested in the evaluation of what has been done, particularly on the issues of rebalancing, discrimination and priority access to employment – all of which are particularly important for the future of the archipelago. I therefore think that this time on the balance sheet is important. The next executive of the French Republic but also the next parliamentarians – since there will be a constitutional revision and therefore the Congress will have to be convened in Versailles – will again be interested in the future of New Caledonia. I recall that many of the provisions in force are indeed transitional; A constitutional review will therefore be necessary, regardless of the framework; It's a secret of polichinella, but we have to take it into account. All political formations will participate in the discussions, including the independent political formations, which have provided me with this in a more or less informal way. Everyone will sit at the negotiating table in the aftermath of the next presidential election, especially since the independent political formations are in power in New Caledonia – it is still quite a singularity that no one has noted since the beginning of this debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u25	I call Mr Guillaume Vuilletet.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u26	As the Prime Minister said at the meetings with the political forces in Paris last June, the transition period should not be limited to institutional issues. My question therefore concerns public investment and the functioning of local communities and institutions in New Caledonia. The Caledonian economy is fragile. It was already before, but the health crisis obviously didn't fix anything. I would add that the uncertainties surrounding the institutional process have led to a form of attentism that has not served local growth either. I note, in the balance sheet of the Caledonian economy in 2019, a decrease in the investment of general government of the order of 5%, which follows that of 2018 in the order of 11%. I recognize the nation's efforts to support the economies of the ultramarine territories during the crisis, particularly during the cathartic period of 2020: almost €6 billion were mobilized and, in the case of New Caledonia, a loan guarantee of 28 billion Pacific francs – or CFP francs – was granted in 2020, as well as two exceptional grants in 2021 for a total amount of CHF 14.6 billion, or €121 million, and the business support package was deployed to the tune of CHF 34 billion, or €283 million. The Territory was facing structural difficulties: as of 1 January, 50 billion MFF were lacking in order to close the New Caledonian budget. We know the local political forces ready to move forward quickly with the state on this issue. So, Minister, can you tell us what avenues are being considered to support the territory in the recovery of its finances?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u27	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u28	Your question is daunting, because it covers both economic and other structural aspects. The short-term equation is simple: if Parliament still agrees to accompany the executive on the current path, national solidarity must be expressed wherever extraordinary expenses related to covid-19 are required, including in the countries of autonomy – including, of course, French Polynesia, Mr.Brotherson. It would be dishonest to impute to the independent government of Mr Mapou – a collegial government, which distinguishes him from that of French Polynesia – the existing structural difficulties. But the fact that New Caledonia's social accounts have not been fully balanced is because, unfortunately, some reforms have not been completed. When MP Gomès was president of the government, he had set it in motion. As I was already saying to Thierry Santa, the previous president of the government, some reforms have been expected for quite some time. To answer structural questions, the state and national solidarity will also be present, but there is the major challenge of tax reform. Differences in wealth are worrying,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u29	In Hexagon too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u30	...the way the tax system is built is important, and the issues of tax controls or tax evasion, Mr Coquerel, are also clearly raised. It's not about replaying a bad game, but some topics can be quite exciting for the next. The Government will be at the side of the political forces in Caledonia to advance all these projects by providing engineering and, if necessary, funding, but autonomy is a complex balance that calls for local responsibility. The Polynesians know that; And so do the Caledonians.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u31	Mr Mansour Kamardine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u32	What a pleasure and personal honour to be here to talk about the future of New Caledonia dear to our hearts. The fight for French Caledonia has been similar in some respects to the struggle of the Mahorese for seventy years. Over the course of five consultations in forty years, the State has questioned the will of the Mahorais to remain French and to erect Mayotte in the overseas department, forty years during which, after consultation, they replied with an enthusiastic yes to belonging to France, forty years during which their State continued to question this will, this accession. For New Caledonia, it was the same path: after three successive consultations, it confirmed its continued presence in France so that we could finally reach today's debate, thanks also, it must be said, to a determined action by the Minister whom I wish to greet and who, I hope, will be able to close this page of consultations and hesitation in order to open the page of development, co-construction and integration in the Republic with, I hope, a sincere will of the State to listen to the populations concerned. What a pride it must be for France to know that the idea of belonging to the Republic of a geographically distant but very close territory in our hearts still remains for us, ultramarines, a current and innovative idea. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, New Caledonia is France; Mayotte is France; Overseas is France. I would like to believe that mutuality is just as true when, for some of our elites, today's France is our European territory, sometimes even reduced to the Parisian metropolis. Faced with many problems that are real, including budgetary ones, our country so much to live more and more crouched on itself, engulfed in its European or "hexagonal" territory, to use the term commonly used in our distant countries. This is how more and more voices are rising to question the cost of overseas in France's budget while other powers are seeking to replace us in these same territories without asking ourselves the questions we ask ourselves. Why are we talking about the cost of the overseas countries when the per capita state transfers are, for example, for Mayotte, less than they are in the Yvelines? To withdraw from overseas would be to withdraw from the world because overseas France is the neighbour of many nations in the world. This is how we abandon our influence in Africa day after day, while, through our very ancient common history with this continent, we are always expected and listened to. At Les Républicains, we intend to continue this multi-sera adventure of a France open to the world, present on all the oceans, a awake France where the sun never sets. By their vote of 12 December, our Caledonian compatriots, whatever their individual choices, decided together to offer the opportunity to pursue a beautiful common adventure. Here I want to pay tribute to the democratic maturity they have shown following this election, following the steps of wisdom undertaken by the late Jacques Lafleur, Dick Ukeiwé and Jean-Marie Tjibaou. It is now up to the State and the Government not to disappoint them; It is up to the Government of the Republic to co-build with the Caledonians a new Caledonia of tomorrow, even greater, respecting its personality and offering it every opportunity to build sustainable economic and social development forever, with this pride in maintaining their membership of the nation. It is in this spirit that we envisage the future of New Caledonia.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u33	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u34	I did not find any question in Mr. Kamardine's remarks, rather a testimony of heart.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u35	I was advocating co-construction!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u36	I have already spoken extensively on this subject in the rostrum before the adjournment of the meeting. I note the mobilization of your group regarding New Caledonia. It is clear that the State has a major role to play. It is also complicated to embody and represent the balance it has brought to this case for some time. I turn to Philippe Gomès, who participates in local political discussions. When the state disappears too much, a block-to-block confrontation settles. That's clear. Without inappropriate paternalism, this is what I experienced during the famous Lepredour discussions, including at the meetings last June on the implications of yes and no. The state must not be afraid of getting wet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u37	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u38	... while maintaining a form of neutrality. I have told a number of members and senators. The Republicans, those and those who were agitated, a few days before 12 December, asking for the President of the Republic to express his views on what his vote would be if he were a voter in New Caledonia: that was not what the Caledonians, whether they were independent or not, expected from the Head of State or from the State itself. They're expecting something else. At the same time, you rightly say that the state must make proposals on the table to draw a future. First of all, it concerns its own powers: the University of New Caledonia is still under the jurisdiction of the State, as are the FANCs or the Regiment of Adapted Military Service (RSMA). The state is already waiting on its powers and I have specific ideas on this. It would also be necessary for the political parties in Caledon to decide what they want. When I force the system by talking about ecology, inequalities between men and women or jobs, one could explain to me that I am out of my role; However, it is clear that this is what the social body calls its vows. The balance between the traditional powers of the State and its slight withdrawal should be settled when necessary. At the same time, it is sometimes necessary to invest fully when it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u39	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u40	I thank the colleagues of the IDU and independent group for allowing us to discuss the future of New Caledonia – a crucial topic. The third referendum consultation on the independence of the archipelago resulted in a massive result in favour of no. While the desire of Caledonians to remain within the Republic should be welcomed, the results of the elections were marked by strong abstention. The independents, who had asked for this third and final consultation, finally called not to participate. They are now challenging its legitimacy. They also indicated that they did not want to start discussions until after April: we hear it and we remain open to dialogue. The strong abstention of the independant camp calls for political responses from the state. They must be brought quickly because the situation in New Caledonia does not allow for another four months, as the urgent challenges are great. New Caledonia is still facing a budgetary stalemate of EUR 500 million, despite the exceptional subsidies committed to meet the costs of covid-19. The toll paid by the archipelago to the pandemic is heavy, and the health problems are deeper and even older. Indeed, the problems are also health and social. The record rate of diabetes and obesity are a scourge for local populations, while alcohol is responsible for 98 per cent of road accidents and crime. There is another tragedy that I cannot avoid: violence against women. They are reaching terribly high rates. All this will have to be the subject of a major political project developed through a dialogue between all. How will you tackle these major problems, whose only solution will restore confidence?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u41	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u42	The answer is a little in the question. I was just saying to Mr Karmardine: it is the role of the State to respond to the aspirations of the social body, to accompany them, and it must do so without trampling on autonomy. That's what awaits the next executive, whatever it is. It will have to fulfil its role as a signatory to the agreement. I am the Minister of Overseas Affairs, therefore of all the ultramarines: New Caledonia's citizens want the lines to move on social inequalities, on environmental issues, issues that cross the entire social body in New Caledonia. The erosion of the coast line at Citron Bay and Anse Vata at Nouméa is not literature. The landslides in Hienghene or the problems associated with major climatic changes are not literature. The social body deeply aspires to change. However, the Parisian deputies – Parisians, because they sit in Paris – and the representative of the State, whether he is High Commissioner of the Republic or Minister, are quickly criticized for mingling with transferred powers, in the name of the irreversibility already mentioned. The role to play is therefore delicate, but I believe that there will be a post-covid-19 period from this point of view. It has been noted that autonomy is not a hindrance to national solidarity. Consequently, by definition, what is happening in these territories is of interest to everyone. I've been talking about ecology, I'd like to talk about violence against women. The work carried out by the judicial authority, the president of the court, the prosecutor of the Republic, in the framework of the Grenelle on violence against women – the parliamentarians of New Caledonia have invested themselves in the matter – is a testament to what "making nation" means in relation to important contemporary societal causes for which autonomy should not be an obstacle. I really believe that there are prerequisites for institutional discussions. Equality between men and women was not in Nouméa's agreement; I think we'll have to talk about it in the future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u43	Mrs Isabelle Santiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u44	I would like to refer to the evolution of the definition of the electoral corps that is now posed by the "no" to the independence of New Caledonia. The Nouméa Agreement of 5 May 1998 provides that, while all citizens may vote in communal and national elections, only persons meeting specific criteria may participate in the elections of members of provincial assemblies and Congress and in consultations on independence. The principle of a small electoral body was conceived at the time of the Nouméa Accords as a necessary balance for the process, allowing long-standing voters in New Caledonia to take their destiny into their own hands within the Republic. If this exceptional functioning has so far been accepted by the Constitutional Council, it is only because of its provisional nature. The maintenance of a restricted electoral body could ultimately prove to be contrary to the principle of equality before the vote, as provided for in our Constitution. What is the Government's position on the restricted electoral corps? What are the different scenarios envisaged to reconcile the balance inherited from the Nouméa Accords with our constitutional principles? Should we consider a dedicated electoral body with regard to self-determination? I would point out that it is envisaged that only Caledonian citizenship will allow access to a number of rights: it gives rise to certain social benefits, for example, and guarantees a preference for employment or access to property. Is a revision of this system also envisaged?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u45	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u46	If I were a tease, I would answer the question of my positioning: What about yours? This will indeed be a question of lawlessness and arduously complex on the ground of law and balance. As President Mélenchon said in the rostrum, there was consent to the application of specific arrangements in New Caledonia because the case was specific. Moreover, the freeze on the electoral corps is not only the result of the Nouméa agreement. The constitutional review on this subject took place at the end of Jacques Chirac's last term, ten years later. There are also differences between the signatories of the agreement around a dry freeze or a slippery freeze. There is a beginning of divergence. We are therefore moving towards a consensus without being able to say that it is complete. By definition, this issue is not consensual. Why did a specific electoral body, and why did loyalist signatories, such as Jacques Lafleur, consent to the 1998 electoral corps, which was not frozen but slippery? To respond to the aspirations of the independents to take into account what settlement has been. I refer to our history books on this subject. To answer your question directly, this is one of the hard points of the next discussions, and these concepts must be handled with great calm and caution. It is therefore necessary to return the subject peacefully to the beginning of the next quinquennium. Each political group in the National Assembly and Senate will also have to question its heart, soul and mind about what it is willing to accept or not specific and "extraordinary" in our positive law. We all know that this is a major and delicate point which will have to be dealt with with with great serenity and method.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u47	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u48	I ask the question of my colleague Maina Sage. The third referendum on the independence of New Caledonia was held on 12 December. As Mrs Sage pointed out in the first part of the debate this afternoon, the vote did not win with 96.5% of the vote. Voter turnout was 43.87 per cent. In particular, abstention was reinforced by the non-participation of the independents, following the refusal of the postponement of the ballot. The lack of consensus and the tensions surrounding a fundamental issue for the future of the people of Caledonia, as well as for the other ultramarine territories, raise the question of the organization of the referendum. As the President of the Republic has pointed out, as you yourself, the deep divisions that remain among the Caledonian population must lead us to rethink the special status of New Caledonia. Gathering the people of Caledonia, bridging the divides between peoples and generations, involving youth are the goals we need to work on. I know that for you, of course, it is fundamental. Together with my colleague Maina Sage and the whole of the Action Group, we would like to ask you about the outcome of this referendum, its consequences, in particular the next steps concerning in particular the institutional organization of New Caledonia. As we approach future presidential and legislative deadlines, can you tell us a little more?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u49	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u50	Thank you, honourable Member, for speaking for your Polynesian colleague and for your interest in these matters. I repeat: there are prerequisites related to nickel, local finances and the health situation. I never get a success of esteem by starting this way, but it concerns the daily lives of people living on the Caillou, and no matter whether they are independent or autonomous, no matter how many years they have spent on the territory. It is not possible to evacuate the immediate concerns of these women and men from the back of their hands. To do so would have the effect of replicating the mistakes of the past, devoting itself to institutional issues alone and forgetting what makes daily life for each other. Many more things than we think bring together the two "camps", if I can use this word – it may even be true about issues related to the electoral corps. Let's be careful, but let's see a willingness to write the rest of the autonomy! I haven't mentioned it yet, but I would like to take this opportunity to explain that the "yes" and "no" documents contained questions on each element of law. The questions were numerous in relation to the "yes" – and because of this, it was the most "disturbing" option. There were also many questions related to "no". I must admit that the Loyalist and non-independence political groups have not always answered all the questions – I say this, without offense, to the attention of MP Gomès. It is clear that many questions arise in the future: what will autonomy be in the Pacific tomorrow? Non-independents will have to answer that question. What is the future of the self-determination process? What is the future of the institutions? Should we keep a collegial government? What is the place of the provinces, what is the place of municipalities and mayors? There are at least 40 interesting questions on which I am sure that, in essence, we will be able to combine the yes and the no a little better than we believe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u51	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u52	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u53	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u54	The next item is the debate on the ceiling on bank charges. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two stages. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u55	Once again, bank charges are on the agenda of our House, at the initiative of our group, and I welcome them. My colleague Alexis Corbière – who cannot participate in the discussion as planned, because of the postponement of the discussion after we sat last night – reported a bill to cap these costs a year and a half ago. The majority of parliamentary groups – six out of ten – then supported this proposal. Despite this support, the bill was rejected, with the majority preferring to rely on the "good faith" of banks rather than the law. In May 2020, in the midst of a health crisis, the same majority refused Alexis Corbière's proposal to cancel these costs during the period of the crisis. Unemployed, students and part-time employees have therefore continued to pay costs in the midst of a pandemic; No truce has been granted to them. A year and a half later, we can question the balance sheet. Has the "good faith" of the banks borne fruit? No: this private tax still pays 8 million of our citizens, both private and professional, including employers of very small enterprises (SMEs) and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). This is a glaring contradiction with Bruno Le Maire's recent speeches about the maintenance of purchasing power during the quinquennium. This speech was heard for weeks and months – against all truth, as revealed by several institutes including the Institute of Public Policy (IPP). Many of the testimonies recorded by the associations unfortunately confirm this counter-truth and speak for themselves. I quote a few of them: Caroline, a young woman who receives the young guarantee of 497 euros following the loss of her job, paid 500 euros in fees in the last months of 2021; the mediator granted him a discount of 20 euros. For Sophia, professional of a clothing shop, it was 2650 euros of fee in 2021; for Étienne, a young active, 225 euros in fees in August 2021, in a single month; for Maxime, a young person who had to stop his studies during the covid crisis as many young people, unfortunately, it was 1000 euros of fee in 2020. In total, more than 10 billion euros are punctured each year by banks. Since 2008, bank charges have increased tenfold; They are the highest in Europe. The banks have never communicated a precise figure, nor have they called into question this estimate resulting from the work of the association Banks Infos Remedies. What concrete reality lies behind the "bank charges" formula? Let us begin by saying that these fees are not the normal remuneration of a financial service: they are an unnecessary and unfair sanction for clients. Commission of intervention? 20 euros. Rejection of drawdown or check? 20 to 40 euros. Mail charges? Between 12 and 25 euros for a simple e-mail sent to the customer, while the cost is zero for the bank. For households, it is the spiral of over-indebtedness that begins with bank charges. Up to several hundred euros per month are thus punctured on the accounts of customers. Since all these transactions are free of charge to banks, these charges have no justification. I am already guessing the arguments that you will most certainly oppose, Madam Deputy Minister, to our proposal for a cap. I guess because they've been following each other and resembling each other for three years. I'd be happy if you made a mistake, but I'm afraid they're the same. You will say that these ceilings already exist – but they are very insufficient. The offer for fragile customers from September 2018, for example – which is just a commitment by banks based on their good faith, according to their commercial policy, with a ceiling of 20 euros per month – covers 600,000 people out of 3.8 million eligible customers. You'll admit with me that it's very little. Following the presentation of Alexis Corbière's bill, Bruno Le Maire announced that he wanted fragile customers to access this offer faster and longer. To this end, it issued a decree on 22 July 2020, making it mandatory to publish the criteria chosen by the banks to determine the customers eligible for this offer, so-called fragile customers. But the law still imposes no criteria and banks are free to determine them themselves. In concrete terms, all banks retain an income criterion: their customers must earn less than 1500 euros in order to benefit from the offer. This criterion is not based on standard of living. For example – to show that we are far from the incomes of the well-off – a woman alone with three children and earning more than 1500 euros is not eligible, nor is a person in the process of divorce or a person sick, suffering from cancer, receiving the same income. Here I quote only concrete and real cases. Despite their difficult situation, these people do not have access to the ceiling of the fragile customer offer. I add a clarification: professionals and self-entrepreneurs, many of whom are actually Uberized workers who have no business but the name, are excluded from the current ceilings despite their precarious situation. Finally, one of your redundant arguments is that capping bank charges would threaten bank staff. That's not true! The net performance of banks is rising sharply, allowing them to apply a cap without releasing their staff; It's just blackmail. Let me quote a few figures: Farm Credit recorded a net gain of 25.7% in the third quarter of 2021, in the midst of the crisis of the covid. BPCE – Banque populaire and Caisse d'savings – saw its net profit double in one year, reaching $1.33 billion in the third quarter of 2021. BNP Paribas grew by 31.2% in 2021 to reach €7.2 billion. In August 2021, the Société générale achieved its best quarter with a net profit of 1.44 billion euros. Did it, however, cancel the 3700 abolitions of posts scheduled for 2023? Of course not. In short, I note that the Government is committed to the policy of very small steps in the area of capping, and that this is not its priority. On February 4, 2021, during the "Cash Investigation" program devoted to bank charges, Bruno Le Maire recalled his priority, which does not meet our requirements in this regard. He said, "My responsibility as Minister of Finance is to be careful that our banks remain profitable." No: The responsibility of the Government is to pay attention to what the French live in dignity. Why, therefore, not opt for the general ceiling resulting from the bill that we introduced a year and a half ago? The proposed ceiling, quite frankly, was nothing revolutionary: 200 euros per year, 20 euros per month, 2 euros per operation. [[Laurence Dumont and François-Michel Lambert applaud]] In conclusion, I would like to point out that neither the current ceilings nor the measures targeting certain populations protect against the phenomena of cascading costs, which I have stressed can lead to situations of extreme poverty. The private tax of bank charges organizes, because it is a private tax, a reverse solidarity at the service of banks. There's no justification for that. I tell you, Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority: it is time to cap these costs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u56	Mr Philippe Chassating has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u57	In this week of monitoring, I am pleased to be able to speak on behalf of the majority on the issue of bank charges and their capping. It is at the heart of our bank inclusion policy and has been in a way the thread of my mandate. I would like to point out in the preamble that banking inclusion is a crucial element of social inclusion: it is now essential to have access to banking services and appropriate means of payment in order to participate in the economic life of the nation. Let me go back to the major advances in banking inclusion during this term. In September and December 2018, banks made concrete commitments to the President of the Republic and the Minister of Economy to limit the costs of bank incidents for their modest customers: first of all, the ceiling of 20 euros per month for the approximately 350,000 holders of the specific offer; then, in December 2018, the ceiling of 25 euros per month for the 3.5 million French people recognised as financially fragile. The implementation of these measures has, of course, been subject to in-depth checks by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority of the Bank of France – the ACPR. As part of a task entrusted to me by the Committee on Finance, I was able to see that the commitments made by the banks had been broadly respected, but that the criteria for eligibility for this ceiling remained opaque, which, in my view, made further measures necessary. Also, in February 2020, the Minister decided to ask banks to publish the criteria for detecting financial fragility in order to make them effective against associations, and to use the practice of name and shame to punish the occasional deficiencies of certain banking institutions. Two banks will be subject to this procedure. However, these detection criteria for capping still needed to evolve to allow for earlier and more fine-tuned detection of people in vulnerable situations. The health crisis called for new responses. That is why I welcomed the decree of 20 July 2020 amending the conditions for credit institutions to assess financial fragility – the result of a fight that we fought together, Madam Minister Delegate. Published in the context of the state of health emergency, where there were many risks of financial disruptions and of an increase in over-indebtedness, this text made it possible to recognise a situation of fragility from the fifth payment incident found in a month, to retain the benefit of it for a minimum period of three months and to promote statistical upswings to monitor the evolution of financial fragility. In the wake of the decree, it also seems necessary to me to mention the renovation of the charter of banking inclusion and the prevention of over-indebtedness drawn up by the French Association of Credit Institutions and Investment Enterprises (AFECEI), which has integrated all these advances. This charter recalls the objectives shared by governments and banks to protect fragile customers. Beyond the capping of their costs, it is precisely the support of our fellow citizens that must continue to make progress. I wanted to contribute to this by presenting on behalf of my group two amendments to the draft finance law for 2022, aimed at supporting the deployment of two banking inclusion tools: on the one hand, the budget advisory points – PCBs – with the necessary appropriations being obtained to launch their experiment, which aims to strengthen the support of people in financial fragility; On the other hand, personal microcredit, which we want to increase in stocks to allow French excluded from the traditional credit to finance their investment projects – here too, we have obtained the necessary budgetary appropriations. If we can legitimately welcome these advances, we must now set ourselves new goals. This will involve strengthening the support of vulnerable audiences. In this regard, I hope that the testing of PCBs and their better budgeting will lead to their generalization. Care must also be taken to refine the definition of financial fragility, in order to eliminate the blind spots of public policy. Indeed, some people still escape detection – among students and self-employed workers, for example. Finally, we will have to pay attention to the evolution of certain practices, such as mini-credits or payment facilities, which should be regulated in the interests of the consumer. With this in mind, and in order to continue to take action, I would like to reaffirm a strong conviction: it is necessary to maintain cooperation between all the actors – state, consumer associations, banks – and to avoid any manicheism, in order to guarantee new protections and rights for our citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u58	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u59	This debate on the capping of bank charges is an opportunity for the national representation to raise a subject that concerns all French people. Whether it is families, businesses, SMEs, TPEs, traders, artisans, professions, all are affected by the payment of bank fees. Our debate this evening will also have the merit of highlighting a very real problem: that of the very large volume of fees charged by banks to their most fragile customers. Generalist banks, which no longer earn their living on bank loans because of very low interest rates, try to catch up on the billing of the services offered. These levies apply to the maintenance of accounts, the remuneration of payment services and banking incidents. The latter category alone accounts for around €6 billion each year for banks and covers more than 7 million customers. France is one of the countries of the European Union where these bank charges are the highest. Unfortunately, we see year after year their flight, despite the recent competition from "neobanks" that offer attractive conditions. Standard charges for bank accounts are relatively constant, but sometimes very unpleasant surprises may appear, as a UFC-Que Choir survey recently revealed. I am thinking, for example, of the costs of bank succession, which occur when the account of a deceased person is closed and can range from 120 to 750 euros, which is two to three times higher than that of our European neighbours. In Germany, this "death tax" was even simply declared illegal. It would be wise for these abusive tariffs in France to be strictly regulated and capped at a much more reasonable level, or to be inspired by the German example, especially since account closures in the context of bank mobility are free of charge. But beyond these so-called standard charges, it is the costs of incidents, that is, the charges applied when the account is insufficiently filled, that weigh the most on our compatriots. Banks do not hesitate to bill their customers heavily for default payments, and it is very much the modest or most precarious households and young people who are penalized. There are nearly 3.3 million French people in situations of financial fragility, sometimes threatened to sink into a spiral of extremely destructive over-indebtedness. Self-employed workers and micro-entrepreneurs are also the first to be exposed to this situation. For several years, many advances have already taken place to cap the costs of rejecting cheques or other means of payment. Caps per transaction per month were introduced and an agreement was reached in 2018 between the State and the banking networks to lower the ceiling for bank incident charges for people in financial fragility. There is a need to strengthen dialogue with banks on this issue, but it must be an effective dialogue that allows for further progress for the consumer. It is important to ensure that existing legislation and past agreements are properly implemented – which is not always the case – by strengthening controls and, where appropriate, sanctions. Care must also be taken to improve transparency on bank charges where there is still too much opacity. It is essential that bank customers can easily compare bank rates, which must be readable and understandable by all. It must be noted that we are still far from the account – without punctuality – and that it is difficult for a customer to find themselves in this maze of billings. It would obviously be illusory to ask banks for services completely free of charge. Nor can the State alone decide everything and regulate everything. We should not go back to the price police, which was abolished thirty-five years ago. Individual responsibility must also prevail. But protecting the French more must remain a guideline for our action. The spiral of over-indebtedness in which many families fall cannot leave us indifferent. In addition to bank charges, this means helping these families to recover from insecurity and poverty. [[Frédéric Reiss applauds]] These issues should be part of the democratic debates in the coming weeks. The Republicans intend to take their full part.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u60	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u61	After two years of freezing the banks' tariff grid, the price increase in 2022, largely modelled on the inflationary trend, could also, combined with rising energy or certain food prices, cut the budget of the most modest people. This context leads us to debate once again the business practices of banks and the conditions for achieving banking inclusion in our country, in particular our poorest citizens. Indeed, 8 million people are facing various bank charges and other fees. Of these, 3.8 million are already recognized as financially fragile. The health crisis has weakened many others: I am thinking of students, people who are partially unemployed, those who have made use of the support fund, to whom we owe effective aid, like the inflation allowance of 100 euros, already paid to 38 million people. In order to combat bank exclusion and regulate the business practices of banks, the Government has embarked on the winning bet of dialogue with the banking sector. First of all, this is what the Group of the European People's Party is saying and I wanted to stress. We acknowledge the political will and progress achieved through discussions with the banking sector and the Government's regulatory measures, in three stages. As early as September 2018, the Government entered into an agreement with the banking sector to cap incident charges at 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year for the most fragile customers, benefiting 300,000 French. In February 2020, a solution for automatic identification of unsuccessful samples was put in place to avoid the costs associated with these operations and was deployed in 2021. Finally, the decree of 20 July 2020 allowed the harmonisation of bank charges, capping from five payment incidents to 25 euros per month, for a period of three months, and to 300 euros per year the costs of bank incidents affecting 3 million of our citizens. To ensure the effectiveness of these measures, the Government has put in place, for the first time in our country, a mechanism of public denunciation – name and shame – of banks that would not comply with their commitments. We remain firmly opposed to a cap on costs for all, on the issue of equality and equity. We will not ask for additional efforts from the banking sector, at the risk of weakening jobs in this sector, or to give gifts to the most fortunate who, moreover, do not ask for it. We remain convinced that the method of dialogue is fruitful. Several avenues for discussion need to be launched as soon as possible with a view to further harmonisation of rules between banks. First of all, the criteria for the designation of fragile audiences will be further broadened. It will also harmonise the criteria for the recognition of the financial fragility of the various banking institutions, as suggested by the Court of Auditors in its 2021 annual public report. These are too different from one bank to another. In addition, the aim will be to increase the transparency of the tariff schedules, which currently number more than 100. The calculation of fees is still too variable according to the banks and relatively opaque. Succession costs were mentioned: progress should also be made on this point. Citizens and clients ask to be able to check that these costs are well correlated with the actual cost of the services they are supposed to pay. Efforts must be made to improve the readability of tariffs. The aim will also be to improve the legal procedures for the account, which, in practice, impede the access of the most vulnerable public to this right: the deadlines are longer than those legally defined, and the transmission of the documents necessary for the opening of the account is too restrictive. Finally, it will be a matter of looking at the bank charges for inheritance – I have already mentioned them. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] In short, it is time to resume the discussion with banks as soon as possible. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats are calling for dialogue and concessions to be continued and deepened.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u62	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u63	Nearly one in two Frenchmen was discovered at least once in 2021, and nearly 20% of our citizens are out of print every month. This situation can result from a dangerous spiral – agios, bank incident charges, debt... – which sometimes leads to bank bans or so-called personal recovery procedures – in other words, bankruptcy and liquidation of property. Yet, these costs pay a lot. According to the National Consumer Institute, banks earn 6.5 billion euros each year through bank incident charges. Every year, the bank debts of our fellow citizens are the milk cows of the collection companies, which do not always respect the law. These few uplifting figures emerge from the investigation of Cash investigation broadcast in February by France Télévisions – I take this opportunity to say how proud we can be of the quality investigative journalism that exists in France, and that is sometimes threatened; It allows us to point the finger at scandalous practices. The few figures I have just mentioned cannot describe the violence and humiliation that these situations represent for all those who face absurd tariffs when they are poor, and even because they are poor. They are more than 3 million in France, often too little paid to live properly, affected by the amount of rents, the lack of thermal insulation and the rise in the price of fuel. I could also mention the forclosing debts, which the vulture collection companies are still asking for repayment. I invite you to listen to one of their interventions, absolutely lunar, which appears in Cash's investigation: with great reinforcement of threats, infantilization and guilt, the mechanism is dishonest and indecent. By allowing such practices to flourish, poverty is condemned, while the richest are being taxed less and less. Bank charges are indicative of a company that has lost its focus. This is why, in June 2020, the La France insoumée group proposed a general cap on these costs. The proposal was rejected by the majority, with the Government preferring to issue a decree to clarify the definition of fragile clients. A ceiling currently exists, at EUR 25 per month and EUR 300 per year, from five payment incidents in the same month. For fragile customers, this ceiling is provided for a minimum period of three months; it goes down to 20 euros if the person benefits from the fragile customer offer. The latter is very restrictive: the person concerned can only make two cheques and four transfers per month, without an authorized overdraft. Therefore, it is not always accepted by customers who are likely to be fragile. In addition, this useful offer to prevent the entry into the vicious circle of bank incident charges is not put forward by banks. Why? Because she doesn't pay much. One might think that the operation is comparable abroad, but that is not the case. Take the example of the charges for the rejection of the levy: according to the Financial Sector Advisory Committee (FCAC), they reach 20 euros in France against 7.5 euros in Belgium and 3 euros in Germany, and can rise to 39 euros in Spain. While the status of a fragile client, which does not exist in all our neighbours, is a positive element, a system that penalizes the poor because they are poor has no meaning.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u64	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It's ineffective, unfair and inhuman. The system must therefore be reformed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u66	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u67	This evening we are debating bank charges, which are a source of many concerns for our citizens, particularly in the context of the health, economic and social crisis that we are going through. The health crisis and successive confinements have exacerbated the financial difficulties of our citizens, regardless of their social condition. We measure all these sufferings economically, socially and psychologically. We must therefore act with vigour and determination in the face of the threat of unsustainable precariousness that awaits us. According to a study carried out by the Observatoire de l'inclusion bancaire (OIB) in 2020, 3.8 million French people live in financial fragility. Many associations, such as 60 million consumers, CFU-Que Choosing or Consumer Housing Living Environment (CLCV) have worked extensively on this issue. We thank them for their commitment to parliamentary debates. A study published a few days ago reveals that the fees charged by banks in a succession have been increasing steadily over the past ten years. Between 2012 and 2021, tariffs increased by 28%; In 2022, the increase was 1.2%. The associations also explain that these increases are not justified in the same way from one bank to another. That is why we should work on a fee cap, but also on a standardization of the terms used and how they are presented. The precariousness and excessive banking costs are a vicious and dangerous circle, and we must at all costs prevent it from feeding itself. The Government and the majority have been able to act and propose to establish coherent ceilings. In 2018, at the request of the President of the Republic, the banks made a commitment to cap the costs of bank incidents for all customers in fragile situations: since February 2019, they have been limited to 25 euros or even 20 euros per month under certain conditions. It's a first step. The first results show that the path of consultation that we have chosen is already bearing fruit. We must go further and encourage further this limitation. In its annual report published last June, the OIB tells us that the average annual amount of all account fees for fragile customers has declined by 18% in two years. The average annual incident costs decreased by 17% for the most vulnerable clients. Beyond the reduction in bank charges, I would like to commend the work of all the actors involved in the banking inclusion arrangements. The detection of difficult situations and the personalized support of people in difficulty are an essential link in the fight against banking insecurity. The question of purchasing power is fundamental. When our majority fights to exempt 80% of the French from housing tax – and even to abolish it in 2023 – when it increases the premium of activity, the minimum old age and the allowance for disabled adults, when it introduces the remainder at zero charge for hearing and dental prosthetics or for glasses, it works for the purchasing power of the French who are most in difficulty. When they come to our offices, they tell us how much they are penalized by bank charges. We must therefore act: that is what we have begun to do, and we will continue. While bank charges are a major subject for individuals, they are no less important for professionals: they represent an average of 1,700 euros per year per company. Professionals do not enjoy protection equivalent to that of individuals. We must therefore work to regulate the bank charges applied to them, so as not to add additional difficulties to those caused by the health crisis – I am thinking in particular of businesses, TPEs and SMEs. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Much remains to be done; We have work to do, but we are moving forward with determination and resolve. The course is now set, the first results are there, and the path we are following is the right one. We must continue to act in favour of recovery and remain on the side of the most fragile French people, in order to provide them with high-quality access to the banking system at a lower cost.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u68	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u69	I thank the FI Group for putting this crucial debate on the agenda. Our colleagues Bertrand Pancher and Charles de Courson have just tabled a bill to reform the ceiling on bank charges in order to better frame them. Our debate therefore responds to an urgent need. The bank charges constitute a maquis of nearly 597 names grouping all the sums received by the banks either on the occasion of certain interventions, or following irregularities or incidents – 597 names, it is well to piss off the most fragile French! In concrete terms, every rejected cheque, every incorrect transfer, every insufficient provision and every mail sent, the customer must pay. Of course, legislators and regulators have intervened in an attempt to frame these practices and set ceilings. I take note of the Government's efforts and the agreement reached in 2018 with the banks, but the result remains very disappointing, and circumventions are the norm. The bank charges are around 250 euros a year for French people in financial fragility, while the latter benefit from a specific offer, theoretically more favourable. The trend is towards a general increase in fees: by 2022, they are expected to increase by 2.5% on average. The main criticism of the Libertés et territoires group relates to the diversion of these costs. At first glance, it might seem natural for banks to charge for their services. However, the fees are so high that they are decorated with the actual cost of the transactions they are supposed to offset. For some institutions, they are a very profitable pool of resources. In addition, commissions sometimes resemble penalties imposed in a repressive manner. How can we combat these practices, which weigh heavily on citizens and affect the most vulnerable? Let's say: the free play of competition will never lead to a more favourable pricing policy for customers. Only direct intervention by the legislator will stop the proliferation of bank charges: this is the basis of the bill presented by my colleagues Bertrand Pancher and Charles de Courson. So far, attempts at capping have only led to limited progress, and have often been circumvented by banks. Is it necessary to conclude that any ceiling is doomed to inevitable failure? No. We have a moral obligation to continue to act to protect the most fragile of our citizens. The main reason for the failure of the existing ceilings lies in their levels. Banks, like any economic agent, have adopted a fairly predictable behaviour: they have immediately aligned themselves with the ceilings. However, as these are very high, the client remains aggrieved. For example, the cost of overdrafting is 80 euros per month, almost 1000 euros per year – almost one SMIC! That's not what I call an acceptable and reasonable ceiling, and that brings the salary of a smicard to eleven months. The simplest solution, therefore, is to have binding ceilings that will really protect customers even if banks are aligned. Another reason for the failure of the legislation is that it leaves too much room for manoeuvre for banks. The opacity surrounding the fees benefits the institutions, which are constantly creating new fee and fee titles – I would remind you that 597 reasons and reasons for charging fees have been recorded. In general, it is the transparency of relations between banks and their customers that lacks effectiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever tried to decipher the records and communications of establishments on their tariffs? These documents are intelligible to our fellow citizens! The UFC-Que choix has already denounced this illegibility, and I do not know anyone here who has never had any difficulty with what he was able to read on his bank statements. Finally, I would like to stress the case of clients in fragile situations. There are currently, as I said, specific ceilings for these customers. This is particularly the case for intervention commissions. These ceilings remain high in the face of the precariousness of these citizens and the process must be completely resumed. Madam Deputy Minister, why not extend this specific offer by reserving to the most vulnerable a reduced ceiling for other costs, such as those related to the rejection of a cheque or a levy? In short, the current legislation has shown its flaws and needs to be reviewed very broadly. It is no longer time for calls for good will and codes of conduct. It is time to intervene and provide a new banking shield, protecting customers. It is about the dignity of our mission to preserve the dignity of our most fragile fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u70	Mr Philippe Gomès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u71	The main challenge of this reflection on the capping of bank charges lies mainly in the protection of our most financially fragile citizens, a fortiori in the current context, where the economic consequences of the health crisis seriously affect the resources of many households. On the other hand, the way in which some network banks serve their clients in difficulty is particularly inadequate, a ludicrous term to describe a much more cruel situation, and can even sometimes participate in the process of social exclusion. This is a characteristic pattern or exclusion leads to exclusion. A caricatural example is the collection of incident charges, which is, in fact, an arch-penalizing mechanism aimed at making short-term profits for customers who are not mobile and considered to be commercially uninteresting. Why bother? According to figures, the cost of incidents generates a turnover of 6.5 billion euros each year for French banks and a profit of 4.9 billion euros. The public concerned by these costs are mainly social minimum-income recipients, employees, small retirees, low-income workers. All family compositions are concerned: single persons, couples with or without children, often single-parent families. We all know the reasons for the financial difficulties: these are sometimes structural reasons, with very high expenditure on resources, and sometimes the use of appropriations that should not have been granted, and sometimes they are also ad hoc difficulties – separation, sickness or dismissal – leading to an economic and psychological shock. So it is these publics, these French, who are today the most penalized by bank charges, especially by the costs of incidents. In 2017, bank charges, in general, averaged EUR 193 per account. In 2019, despite the adoption of certain measures, they cost the French an average of 215 euros. You can't say it's a minor increase. As a result of the social movement of yellow vests, banks have certainly made commitments to the President of the Republic – this is not the first time and this is not the last – aimed, in particular, at setting ceilings for customers in financial fragility. We do not currently have serious figures to measure the efficiency of the measures announced and implemented at that time. In view of the current economic situation, we are convinced of the ardent obligation, of the urgent need to introduce an overall cap on bank incident charges for all, which allows for a significant increase in the number of benefits subject to a ceiling. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the situation of the French communities in the Pacific, which, if necessary, did not benefit from Parliament's pressure to limit bank appetites. A decade ago, sixteen basic banking rates in the French communities in the Pacific were two to ten times higher than the average hexagonal rates, all banks combined. I have obtained – not without difficulty, given the power of the system – a report: the Constans report, which allowed the creation of a bank rate observatory for the French communities in the Pacific, in order to put an end to this aberrant and, to say the least, unacceptable situation vis-à-vis the Pacific Ultramarines. I have also obtained the adoption by Parliament, and I thank it again, of a section 68 of the Act on Real Equality Overseas, which was promulgated on 28 February 2017, which provided, "within a period of no more than three years from the publication of the Act, for the gradual approximation of the prices of banking services to those recorded in the hexagon". The last report has just been issued by the Bank Rate Observatory: after not three years, but four, we find that even today, if eight of the 16 basic bank rates are at or below hexagonal rates, the others are, unfortunately, still above hexagonal rates, and sometimes very significantly. The fight for the capping of bank rates in the French communities of the Pacific at a level simply equivalent to the hexagonal average level has not yet been won.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u72	The Minister responsible for the city has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to wish you all an excellent year of 2022. I collectively wish to find the necessary appeasement and sense of responsibility for this year, which is expected to be very agitated. I would be grateful if you would excuse my colleague Bruno Le Maire, who cannot take part in this debate. It has already been said that this is a very important debate, which touches on a key issue for our citizens: access to and pricing of banking services. It is also a debate that allows us to recall everything that has been done in this area since 2017 and to show, far from cartoons, with figures and facts, that we have achieved very concrete results for the purchasing power of our most vulnerable compatriots. Before I discuss the specific issue of bank charges in more detail, I will mention two important elements relating to the banking sector, which have been mentioned in the opening remarks of the speakers who have followed the rostrum. First of all, collectively, we have the chance to have a robust and transparent banking system. Our French model of universal banking enables us to effectively support the financing of our economy and businesses, and to support our growth. The introduction in record time of the EMPs, the state-guaranteed loans, which benefited 697,000 companies, helped save the economy and avoid bankruptcies. It's absolutely massive. Secondly, the banking sector represents an important source of employment for the French, who are almost 400,000 working in this sector. I would now like to share with you some general observations on the specific issue we are dealing with today: bank rates. The first is of common sense: it is economically justified for banks to charge for their services, as well as for costs in case of incidents. These incidents result in management costs for the facility. It therefore seems logical that these costs should be passed on and that customers should be encouraged to ensure that their account operates in accordance with the agreement they have entered into with their bank. Secondly, let me remind you that France has a lower level of bank charges than the European average. Over the past 10 years, the combined effect of digitalisation and competition on the banking market has generally tended to reduce bank charges. In contrast to the alarmist vision that I have heard at times, it seems appropriate to compare one another and, in this respect, to comfort one another by seeing that our prices are lower than in other European economies. Finally, in terms of bank charges, France is not the Far West. The sector is already subject to various and necessary regulations in order to limit abuses. All French people already benefit from the free service of certain services such as monthly statement or account closing. In addition, they benefit from the capping of certain costs, such as the rejection of cheques at 30 or 50 euros depending on the amount, the rejection of levies at 20 euros or intervention fees, which may not exceed 8 euros per transaction and 80 euros per month. But it is true that, despite the existence of these protections, abuses may have existed and the tariff policies of some establishments may have called into question. I share the same ambition as all the groups on these benches, and I particularly welcome the work of Mr Philippe Chassating on this subject in his report. This ambition is to protect the financial situation of the French, and in particular that of the most fragile of them. For sitting with him for several months during his work, I was able to observe his commitment to the protection of the most fragile customers, which made it possible to make certain arrangements. To achieve this goal, we did not stand by. Together with the President of the Republic and within the Ministry of Economy, we have made a strong commitment to put an end to certain practices and to achieve significant progress. In 2018, we acted to ensure that banks cap the costs of bank incidents for the most fragile. For them, these costs can no longer exceed EUR 25 per month. They are even capped at 20 euros per month and 200 euros per year for fragile customers who benefit from an advantageous pricing offer. This rate is 3 euros per month and any banker is now obliged to offer it to fragile customers. This commitment we have obtained from the banks, we did not want it to remain dead letter and we have inscribed it in our law. By a Ministerial Order of September 2020, we approved the AFECEI Charter, which sets the ceiling for bank incident charges. In order for this shield to protect the greatest number of our citizens who are facing difficulties, we have also expanded the definition of what a fragile customer is. It is a measure of social justice. We did not stop there, since in June 2020 we issued a decree, mentioned by the MP Philippe Chassating, allowing us to detect customers in fragile situations earlier, thus increasing the number of beneficiaries of this bank cap protection. Finally, on the recommendations of Mr Philippe Chassating's report, the 2022 finance bill you passed has strengthened the protection of these fragile clients and the prevention of over-indebtedness, in particular by increasing the resources of the budget advisory points and the social cohesion fund. This strategy paid off. The OIB has indeed taken a very positive note of the actions undertaken by the Government. And since you're asking him about the results, I'll give you a few figures. By the end of 2020, 3.8 million customers are now recognized as financially fragile and can benefit from banking capping schemes. In one year, it is therefore 400,000 more people who have been able to be protected thanks to this shield, a sign of our determination to be at their side. In addition, the average amount of fees charged by banks to their customers considered to be fragile decreased by 18% between 2018 and 2020. Finally, the specific offer at reduced prices is widely distributed and benefits an increasing number of our citizens. At the end of 2020, there were 600,000 beneficiaries, 200000 more than in 2018. As you will have understood, in terms of banking capping, our priority is to protect the most vulnerable from excessive pricing practices, and this is the fight we have been fighting since the first day of our arrival at responsibilities. We do not have to be ashamed of our record of protecting the most vulnerable. Whether it is the cap on bank charges, the drop in the first three tax brackets for small wages, the 9 billion poverty plan or the "no matter what," we have never stopped working with the majority members who have not turned away from their responsibilities. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I invite you, of course, in the course of these debates, unless there are any side effects, unless there is dogmatism, and if there is more efficiency, so that together we can change the lives of our most vulnerable fellow citizens in practice. In any case, that is the objective of the Government and that is that of the presidential majority in the National Assembly. I hope that all of us will begin this work in this same spirit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u74	We come to the questions. Let me remind you that the duration of questions and answers is limited to two minutes. Mr Eric Coquerel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u75	Madam Deputy Minister, I will invite you to a little more truth: it will not hurt you! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! You say that the poorest have gained purchasing power under your Government: that is not true. No public institution working on this issue reports on these figures. The poorest 10 per cent saw their purchasing power decline, while the richest 10 per cent saw their incomes explode. You can manipulate all the figures you want, that's the reality of your balance sheet. With this Government, I observe that, on the one hand, incomes are being punctured, conditions are being imposed that are weaker – I think, for example, of the unemployed who need more time to receive a pension, which is also lower – while, on the other hand, whenever they are the richest or the financial institutions, the powerful, they are talking about objectives: targets are set for redundancies for companies to which public aid is granted and targets are set on the issue of bank charges. You can tell me anything you want, but what you have put in place is based only on good faith, the commitment of the banks, and not on specific conditions. Explain to me why, when you say that 3.8 million people are eligible for the fragile customer offer, only 600,000 actually benefit from it. It is not the same thing to say that people are eligible and that they actually benefit from it. Once again, you make it appear that the situation would be better for those subject to certain bank charges, when, as my colleague Lambert explained, they exploded in 2021 during the crisis. I'll ask three questions. Why are you satisfied, on the part of the banks, with a commitment in good faith, based on their trade policy? Why don't you impose a global cap, as many groups have called for you? Secondly, why can banks determine their criteria and not the state? Thirdly, poverty has increased over the past two years and affects 5 million people. Why didn't you cancel the bank charges of the most disadvantaged people?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u76	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u77	You say that we rely solely on the good will of the banks; That's not true. I have quoted a number of elements in the rostrum that I will remind you of. We have requested that the cap on costs be set by the Order approving the AFECEI Charter, which I referred to earlier on as utility and action. I will also mention the supervision by the Supervisory and Resolution Authority and the transparency of the criteria established by the banks. I mentioned, like the Member of Parliament Philippe Chassating, the decree, published in June 2020, which provides for greater transparency in the criteria of client fragility. You say that the number of persons eligible does not correspond to the number of beneficiaries. I recalled earlier the obligation of banks to inform their customers of this offer on advantageous rates. Where appropriate, there are ways of reporting breaches through all the different supervisory bodies and of reminding banks that do not inform their customers. I would like to have a debate this evening on the shortcomings and difficulties encountered, but the way you present the situation is not the right one. I have just proved, by recalling all the actions carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, that what you are saying is not true.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u78	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor to put two questions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u79	Bank charges mostly affect the most vulnerable people. The Government and Parliament have been working for the past five years to better control these costs and better protect our citizens. I would also like to pay tribute here to the commitment of our colleague Daniel Labaronne on the issue of incident costs. In its sixth report, the Bank Rate Observatory concluded that bank charges were stable in 2021. It emphasises that this price stability has been achieved in a competitive market outside of any government commitment or incentive to do so. Again this year, the observatory studied the costs of bank incidents. Again, there were no significant developments. The OIB is responsible for studying banking inclusion. Has it taken stock of measures to cap bank incident charges for persons identified in situations of fragility? What are the main results? Are the measures announced by the banks at the end of 2018 and introduced into the law really being implemented? Let me turn to my second question. In 2018, the Government introduced a ceiling of €20 per month and €200 per year for bank incident charges for fragile audiences. This commitment made by the French banking sector under the leadership of the Government and the Minister of Economy and Finance, Bruno Le Maire, enables the improvement of the purchasing power of precarious households. These are important advances. Nevertheless, other bank charges continue to penalize these households: the inheritance bank charges that are levied for the closing of the deceased's account. They remunerated the processing of administrative transactions until the transfer of assets to the heirs. Like other consumer associations, UFC-Que Choisir addressed the issue. First, it notes that there is a lack of transparency in the tariff brochures of the banks, both on what this operation costs them and on what it brings to them. Thus, the consumer is misinformed. Secondly, as Mr Herbillon has said, the association estimates the average cost, which is rising sharply, at EUR 233. This average hides significant disparities: from 120 euros to 700 euros in the same establishment. These charges have increased by 28% since 2012, three times as much as inflation over the period, reinforcing the idea that these rates are completely disconnected from the costs actually borne by banks. The costs paid by the French are three times higher than those paid by our European neighbours. I would like to know the ways in which the Government intends to reduce or regulate these unfair costs too often.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u80	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u81	You're asking me about the state of affairs of the Government. I repeat how attentive we are to the issue of bank charges and I will go back to the progress made in this area during the quinquennium. I'll mention three of them. Bank incident charges are now capped for the most fragile customers, as I said in my opening remarks. This ceiling was obtained at the express request of the President of the Republic and the Minister of Finance at the end of 2018. First consented by banks in the form of a voluntary commitment, it is now included in the AFECEI charter approved by decree in 2020. For example, bank incident charges are now capped at 25 euros for those identified as financially fragile. This cap is effective and is respected, as confirmed by the OIB, which carried out a check. The number of French people thus protected has increased for two reasons. On the one hand, we have expanded the definition of a "fragile customer" so that more of our compatriots can benefit from this mechanism of shield against bank charges. This scheme has been in effect since 2020. On the other hand, we have obtained the commitment of the banks to increase the dissemination of the specific offer to these audiences – the target is more than 30%. The OIB, which is the public monitoring body for bank inclusion policies, has in fact taken a very positive view of the actions taken in this direction. I'll give you a few figures because I really think it's important. Earlier, the figure of 3.8 million customers considered to be fragile and eligible for this fee cap scheme was cited. This number of eligible people is increasing, which partly responds to Mr Coquerel's comments: it has increased by 12% since 2019. This is the direct effect of the reforms undertaken by the Government. The average amount of fees charged by banks to their customers considered fragile is decreasing: €248 in 2020, a decrease of 18% compared to 2018. The reforms have resulted in an effective reduction of incident costs for 1.5 million clients in 2020. The specific reduced-rate offer was broadcast and benefited 598715 people by the end of 2020, an increase of 56% over 2018. Our strategy was therefore the right one in view of the elements that I have just communicated to you. Beyond incident charges, bank charges for all audiences remained stable under the quinquennium. Bank charges can be large amounts for households. It is therefore important to limit them in order to preserve their purchasing power. It is in this perspective that the President of the Republic obtained, at the end of 2018, the commitment of the banks to freeze bank rates for individuals for the year 2019. Let me turn to your second question. With regard to the bank charges for inheritance, including the closing of a deceased spouse's account, there are several avenues of action. In particular, with regard to the costs of bank succession, we have been told that the pricing practices of the sector are heterogeneous and may in some cases be questioned, in particular because of the incomprehensible dichotomy of the closing of current accounts and the book accounts of living persons, which is free of charge. That is why we have asked Treasury Branch departments to move forward on this issue. A first meeting of the Financial Services Advisory Committee was held on February 16. Since then, there has been no stoppage of work and discussions with banks have continued. They have already been persuaded to do more tariff transparency on these costs. But that is not enough and the Government's position is very clear: we want a solution to be found on the costs of bank succession, which are in decline for the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u82	It's time to act!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u83	I would like a solution to be found in the conciliation bodies. Otherwise, the Government does not exclude the use of a regulatory act to clarify that the free closing of the current account and livret accounts applies in the case of estates.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u84	The practices are really abnormal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u85	Mr Frédéric Reiss has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u86	Madam Deputy Minister, when I examine my extracts from personal accounts or those of the French Association against Myopathies (AFM), I see, like many French, that for banks it is always the jackpot, in the form of account keeping fees, transaction fees – even for a simple transfer – or even bank incident charges. Obviously, small streams make the big rivers: according to serious investigations already mentioned, the costs of bank incidents bring up to €6 billion a year to banks and contribute to increasing the indebtedness of millions of customers. In recent years, the legislator has intervened to curb the expansion of fees, and financially fragile people benefit from an overall ceiling of bank incident charges. France had put forward a proposal for a law on the capping of bank charges, but rather than a new law that could prove counterproductive, we would probably need a little more pedagogy or a stronger dialogue, as my colleague Michel Herbillon has just mentioned. The texts are often bypassed and this will be the subject of my first question: what is the State doing to ensure that the texts in force and the agreements reached are respected? Are bank charges information understandable by customers, particularly by the most vulnerable? At the same time, in this period of ongoing health crisis, we all know that associative life has been halted and that, for various reasons, associative accounts have become inactive. The amount of fees and fees charged from an inactive account is capped at 30 euros per year, but even if these fees are levied within the limits of the credit balance, they necessarily weaken the associations' accounts, which are often modest. Did the Government, during this health crisis, pay particular attention to the accounts of associations, which are an essential link in the social link in France and which, when they can be active, often deploy treasures of ingenuity to make some savings which they then devote to the general interest?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u87	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u88	You are questioning the Government about its actions to enforce the obligations of banks. We have adopted normative acts – ceilings have been fixed by decree – and in 2020 we issued a decree amending the conditions for credit institutions to assess the financial fragility of their customers, in order to allow for earlier detection of customers in situations of fragility. You also asked me about the various controls on banking institutions. As you know, these controls are carried out by the CPRA. We cannot act on this, as control over bank charges information is part of CPRA's missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u89	All this is very confused!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u90	As you have pointed out, there may be difficulties in understanding or even unreadability of fees – some customers can collect them as well – but, in any case, bank charges fall under a contractual provision, the account agreement, which specifies the rules for opening, operating and closing an account. It is envisaged that any disagreements on the interpretation of these contractual rules will be submitted to the bank's mediator, who intervenes to provide information, clarify certain points and sometimes resolve conflicts that may arise between a bank and its client. Any customer of a bank may refer this matter to the Ombudsman, the details of which are contained in the brochure indicating the tariff conditions. As far as the accounts of associations are concerned, no normative action has been taken with regard to the bank charges charged to these accounts. On the other hand, several measures have been taken in favour of associations, including subsidies to assist them during the crisis. State support for associations, through actions of both solidarity and social ties, is unwavering.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u91	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u92	Since 2014, an offer reserved for customers in situations of fragility must be offered to customers in order to limit the weight of banks' intervention fees on unpaid payments. A decree of 20 July 2020, which entered into force on 20 November 2020, extended the conditions for access to this offer created in 2014. So far triggered by a three-month registration in the Central Cheque Register (CCF), the supply is now also open when a demand for over-indebtedness is being investigated, without waiting for the situation of over-indebtedness to be established. It is now available when five payment irregularities have been recorded during the same month. However, under the conditions of eligibility, the Court of Auditors reported in March 2021 that only 15% of the fragile clients out of 3.4 million eligible persons benefited from this offer. This raises a first question, namely the good knowledge of the offer which banks have an obligation to offer to the customers concerned. However, even though the number of over-indebtedness cases is in sharp decline – 58884 cases were filed at the end of February 2021 over a slippery period of 12 months, which represents a decrease of 25.4% compared to the previous period – people with small incomes have no less difficulty in closing their end-of-month. For example, four out of ten French people say they have not been able to pay at least one invoice in the last 12 months, and only 28% of French people have more than 10% of their income after paying their fixed charges. With the increase in the cost of energy and despite existing aid, unpaid payments are likely to increase. Due to tight budgets, any deviation or unforeseenity may result in payment incidents without entitlement to a fee cap offer; If they are too few to qualify for the specific supply, these incidents are very damaging for households. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and Actir ens groups]] Are you planning to propose a new evolution of the criteria for the recognition of fragile customers, so that high bank charges do not weigh as much on modest households that do not currently meet the criteria of fragility?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u93	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u94	You are asking me about the evolution of the criteria for the recognition of clients in situations of fragility. We do not consider it desirable to change the criteria for the detection of fragile customers again. We did so in July 2020 in ways that, to date, still seem relevant to us. The identification of these clients is now based on a proven multi-criteria approach, which incorporates objective criteria while leaving some flexibility to banking institutions. The July 2020 regulatory reform maintained this logic while clarifying certain elements, which allowed for faster and more permanent detection of people in fragile situations, thereby improving the entry and retention of target audiences into the scheme. These changes are already bearing fruit in view of the increase in the number of beneficiaries, from 3.3 million to 3.8 million people between 2019 and 2020, an increase of 12%. It therefore seems that it is a little too early to envisage a further enlargement: it is to be expected that the reform will have its full effect, thus improving the entry and retention of target audiences in a still recent scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u95	Mrs Laurence Dumont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u96	I sincerely wondered, Madam Minister Delegate, when I heard you earlier, whether it was the minister representing the Government who spoke in the gallery, or the banking framework that you were before you became a Member of Parliament. The excessive banking costs and related practices lead me to wonder about the lack of supervision, control and sanctions on the part of the State, as well as the lack of protection and information for the most vulnerable of our citizens. Moreover, the debate could be extended to cover the methods of collection agencies of all kinds. There is no shortage of examples, I will mention only one. Imagine that you inadvertently forgot to pay the telephone bill of 30 euros from the operator you left. The infernal spiral then begins, first with automatic phone calls, then with letterheads threatening legal action. In order to exploit the flaw of the vulnerable person targeted, it is proposed that he immediately settle part of what he or she owes – e.g. by sending a deposit check of 5 euros. These methods are obviously illegal, but when you find yourself in court, the paid deposit is a recognition of the validity of your entire debt, increased by the passage of unilaterally determined procedural costs and delay charges. A sordid story of this kind, which obviously targets the poorest of our fellow citizens, can go as far as the seizure of accounts. Madam Deputy Minister, when are you going to take action to ensure that the poorest are protected from the methods of collecting vulture companies?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u98	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u99	Madam Member, I sincerely hope that you do not seriously consider calling into question the word of the member of the Government that I am by recalling my past duties...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u100	It's not shameful!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u101	If he had been available, Mr. Bruno Le Maire could have been in this place today and could have told you the same things as I did. With regard to your question about how to guide the collection methods used by vulture companies, recent media inquiries have indeed revealed the aggressive and highly questionable practices of some collection companies. If the Government is of course determined to do everything possible to put an end to these practices, we are not starting from scratch in this regard, because the law already governs this activity. Currently, the amicable recovery of claims on behalf of others by collecting societies is an activity regulated by the provisions of article R. 124-1 et seq. of the Code of Civil Enforcement Procedure, in order to ensure the protection of the debtor. The irregular practices and methods to which he may be subjected are therefore liable to civil and criminal penalties. At the civil level, in respect of the debtor, the basis of the liability of the person responsible for recovery is criminal or quasi-criminal, allowing the debtor who is the victim of such practices to obtain full reparation for his or her harm. However, fully aware of certain abuses, the Government is determined to better manage the market, in particular by improving the information of debtors prior to the recovery process. On this point, our answer is twofold. The legal framework for the activities of recovery companies will soon be strengthened, as the Directive on the organisation of the European market for inefficient bank claims will create a new harmonised obligation to inform debtors, which will soon be transposed into French law. In addition, a regulatory text currently being drafted will strengthen the information to be transmitted to the debtor by aligning obligations in all situations, and potentially adding information on statutory limitation periods. Finally, we instructed the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) to be fully involved in the matter, to conduct a recurrent investigation into the practices in this area and to sanction where necessary, which it regularly does.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u102	Mr Pierre-Yves Bournazel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u103	As I said earlier, the President of the Republic, the Government and this majority have been able to make proposals to improve the system of capping bank charges, particularly for the most vulnerable customers. Much remains to be done, but everything that has been done is in the right direction. The limitation of bank charges contributes fully to the policy of improving the purchasing power of French people, which we have been leading together since 2017. We must continue and step up our action in this area. I also said earlier, never has a government acted so much for the purchasing power of the French,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u104	Ah?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u105	Stop! It's getting funny!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u106	... I would like to point out that 80% of the French people are exempt from the housing tax and that it was abolished in 2023, that the income tax was reduced, and that the rest was zero for hearing and dental prosthetics, but also for glasses. One could also mention the increase in the minimum old age and the increase in the working age premium, not to mention the "no matter what it costs". Could our colleagues mention only one country in the world where jobs and employees have been so protected? Is there another model in the world that has so protected the employment of all employees in the unprecedented period of extremely harsh, extremely painful, extremely violent economic and social crisis that we have all seen...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u107	If you say so!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u108	...and that we're trying to stop? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I would also like to commend the work that has been done and the decisions of general interest that have been taken on purchasing power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u109	We think we're dreaming!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u110	The Group of the European People's Party has taken its full place in this policy. I would like to welcome my colleague Patricia Lemoine's bill for fairer, simpler and more transparent access to borrower insurance, which, if passed by the Senate, would generate significant savings for each borrower for the duration of their loan. Here is another possible step forward to strengthen the purchasing power of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u111	You forgot to mention the removal of the ISF!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u112	Madam Deputy Minister, can you remind us of the coherence of the Government's action since 2017 in favour of the purchasing power of the French?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u113	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u114	I would like to begin my speech by addressing all the Members of the majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u115	What about the others?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u116	We'll leave if you don't care. We saw well that when an opposition speaker spoke, you were pianod on your cell phone!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u117	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u118	I can't believe a minister does that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u119	You are part of the majority of purchasing power, which has increased by 8% since 2017. This increase was not decreed by the Government, but was registered by bodies such as the Observatoire français des conjunctures économiques (OFCE) or INSEE.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u120	Repeating a lie ten times is not enough to turn it into truth.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u121	Mr. Herbillon, Mr. Coquerel...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u122	I welcome your colleague Patricia Lemoine's bill, which will be considered by the Senate on January 26, after it has been passed by your assembly. This reform will facilitate home ownership and increase the purchasing power of the French. A young contractor will have the opportunity to change his or her insurance at any time to purchase a dwelling for the first time. A 35-year-old first-time licensor who borrows 224000 euros over 25 years will thus save more than 3800 euros during the duration of his loan. In my turn, I will insist on the massive reduction of taxes – by 52 billion euros –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u123	The debate is about bank charges!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u124	...a measure that both the left and the right have always promised when they were in power but that they have never applied. For us, purchasing power does not pass, contrary to what the opposition claims, through cheque policy but through labour policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u125	You're not in a meeting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u126	It is the work that makes it possible to live: it is the work that makes it possible to make nation. Thanks to the presidential majority, there is more work and work pays better.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u127	Especially the work of the shareholders!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u128	She can be proud of her record. Since 2017, a million jobs have been created.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u129	What does it have to do with bank charges?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u130	The employment rate has never been so high in 50 years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u131	The debate is about bank charges!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u132	Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u133	Thanks to the reforms requested by the President of the Republic, an employee at SMIC at 1259 euros net in 2017 is now earning 1490 euros thanks to the activity bonus. In addition to the 100 euros per month operating premium, the President of the Republic has made other promises: the challenge of working overtime and tipping. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is all we do to strengthen the purchasing power of the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u134	Bruno Le Maire would never have made such an answer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u135	The election campaign has begun!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not ignite the House at midnight minus ten! That wouldn't be reasonable. To appease the spirits, I give the floor to Mr. Philippe Gomès.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u137	I'll try to live up to this mission. It was on 24 July 2012, almost a decade ago, that I intervened for the first time in this House to achieve convergence between metropolitan bank rates and those in the French communities in the Pacific, which were then twice, ten times, twenty times or even fifty times higher. This concern was taken into account by the then Government, in particular in the context of the Law of 20 November 2012 on Overseas Economic Regulation, which provided that the 16 basic banking rates in force in the French communities in the Pacific, in New Caledonia in particular, could be set authoritatively by the High Commissioner of the Republic, since there was no restraint agreement between the representative of the State and all banking institutions. Thanks to these moderation agreements,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u138	Thanks to the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u139	...we were able to make progress. But it was more a step-by-step walk than a big leap forward! We also continued the work undertaken by the Constans report published after the adoption of the 2013 law, which took stock of tariff gaps and set a target of at least 50% reduction by 2017 – a development that seemed reasonable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u140	Thanks again to the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u141	Finally, the 2017 law set itself the objective of achieving within three years a total alignment of sixteen basic banking rates between the French communities in the Pacific and the hexagon. The work accomplished has borne fruit: we have been able to make progress – it must be said that the initial situation was ubiquitous. However, particularly surprising differences remain. Here are a few examples. The cost of subscription to remote banking services, now traditional tools, is 75 MFF (free Pacific exchange) per month in New Caledonia, while in 97 per cent of national banking institutions it is only one MFF when it is not zero. The cost of setting up a levy warrant is 15 MFF on average in metropolitan France, all institutions combined, compared with 286 MFF in New Caledonia, or 20 times more. Moreover, in New Caledonia, the intervention commission per operation is still 10 per cent higher than the average observed in metropolitan France. If we have made progress, we have not yet reached the end of the road. Madam Deputy Minister, I am well aware of the technical nature of my question and I would understand that you would send me an answer in writing later, because I do not have the necessary elements to enlighten me immediately. Purchasing power in French Pacific communities is also an important issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u142	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u143	You are right to recall that all the territories of France deserve the attention of the Government. New Caledonia, of course, does not escape this rule that we have set ourselves since 2017. It has a special arrangement for bank rates which is due to the specificities of its less competitive banking system, but also to those of its own legislative framework. We were unable to assess the questions you asked. I invite you to turn to Bruno Le Maire's office for specific answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u144	Mr François-Michel Lambert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u145	At the end of this debate, I believe that we have not yet obtained answers to this crucial issue for too many French people, namely purchasing power. I would also like to thank the FI Group for choosing this subject, in the continuity of the GDR Group, for this week of control. Know that our group will retain him in turn. In 2021, of the 3.4 million customers of banks in financial fragility, only 512000 benefited from their bank's specific offer, giving them the right to more favourable treatment, at better capped rates. It should be borne in mind that the possibility of accessing this offer depends on the recognition by the banks themselves of this situation of financial fragility. However, according to the association 60 million consumers, almost 80% of the people concerned would not benefit from the reduced ceilings. In some territories, hundreds of cases show abusive and unfair practices. In its 2021 annual public report, the Court of Auditors pointed out that, while criteria are provided for identifying precarious customers, banks still have too much discretion. A customer can be identified by such a bank and not by such a bank. Article L. 312-1-3 of the Monetary and Financial Code clearly mentions the situation of financial fragility, but the list of criteria for determining it is referred only to the regulatory authority. To deal differently with the same situations seems to me contrary to the constitutional principle of equality, you will agree, Madam Minister Delegate. One solution would be to include in the law the principle of a strict exhaustive list of criteria by referring its establishment to a decree as well as the neutralisation of banks' margins of appreciation in order to avoid any breach of equality. What do you think of this concrete proposal which corresponds to the recommendations of the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u146	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u147	I indicated this by responding to Mrs. de Vaucouleurs. The Government does not intend to change the existing criteria, but, in the decree of 20 July 2020, it imposed that the conditions for assessing the situation of financial fragility be more transparent, an initiative which led to positive returns from the supervisory bodies. Of course, the Government is aware of the difficulties of bank charges for some modest households whose situation does not meet the criteria of financial fragility. For them, our answer is twofold: on the one hand, we encourage them to discuss with their banker in order to benefit from the specific offer in order to obtain a ceiling; On the other hand, rather than broadening the criteria defining financial fragility, we have worked in recent months to better prevent the financial difficulties of the French. It was the whole purpose of the mission entrusted by the Prime Minister to Philippe Chassating, which returned his work in September 2021. Very interesting ideas came out of it. We have mentioned several of them: the creation of a more systematic mechanism to prevent the risk of over-indebtedness or the strengthening of the support of our modest citizens. The Government has confirmed that this path will be followed: an experiment will be launched in the coming weeks within the budget advisory points to carry out enhanced measures to prevent over-indebtedness. Provision has been made in the Finance Act for 2022 to finance it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u148	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-06-O1113.u149	Next meeting, at 9 a.m.: Discussion on monitoring law enforcement improving the effectiveness of community justice and criminal response; Debate on France's commitments to ecological transition and biodiversity protection. The meeting is adjourned.
