ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge's bill to strengthen parity in the elected and executive functions of the municipal bloc (No. 4587, 4966).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u2	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u3	The text of Mrs Jacquier-Laforge, which is submitted to us today on the initiative of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, proposes a new stage in the application of compulsory parity within local executive bodies – not least, since it is a matter of changing the voting method applicable in more than 25,000 communes, or 71% of the total, which represents almost 9 million of our citizens. This bill is a continuation of the legislation that has progressively imposed parity in the list elections and in the tables of deputy mayors, and more recently an effective parity in the departmental councils through the law, which our group has defended, establishing a joint binominal vote. I shall begin by referring to what is not a problem from our point of view, that is, the operative part of Article 4, which proposes to establish a gender representation among the vice-presidents of the inter-communities, mirroring the proportion of women and men in the deliberative assembly. It even seems to us a very good thing. The Socialist and Related Group notes with satisfaction the tabling of an amendment, No 9, which will enable us to respond to the criticism heard in committee, on all sides, of the unclear wording of the article which could affect its scope. We will therefore support this amendment. Let me turn to the main operative part of your bill, my dear colleague, which is to extend the two-round proportional list vote to municipalities of less than 1000 inhabitants in lieu of the existing single-member majority vote. You note, as we do, that while the position of women in the local executive bodies of our small communes is growing at each election, to reach 37.6% of the councillors in 2020, this is still insufficient. You therefore propose that the gap between the number of candidates of each sex should not exceed one in each list, as already exists for municipalities with at least 1000 inhabitants. However, as we said in committee, we are concerned about the consequences of the use of list voting in the smallest communes on the number of candidates and on respect for democratic pluralism. Many of them are already struggling, as we know, to find candidates: as many as 106 communes had no candidates in the first and second rounds in 2020, nearly 700 were faced with incomplete advice and, in 87% of the other communes, a second round was not necessary due to the lack of fighters. You yourself identify significant risks in this reform, which is why you anticipate the possibility of submitting incomplete lists, in response to the request of municipalities, and adjust the minimum number of councils accordingly. There are other difficulties in the text. Thus, your Article 2 will have the effect of increasing the number of seats to be filled in the communes from 1000 to 1499 inhabitants from 15 to 19, although it is clear that for the smallest of the strata, an increase of a quarter in the number of seats to be filled will make it more difficult to create lists of candidates. Of course, the large associations of elected representatives are rather in favour of such an evolution, but our group has asked the mayors concerned in our constituencies by means of a questionnaire and, out of almost 150 replies received – a limited number, I admit – it has appeared that more than 62% of them were opposed to the new voting method. The Socialist and related group has therefore put in balance a desirable increase in parity within the local executive on the one hand, the difficulties which I have just listed on the other hand. We have decided to continue our historic commitment to women in politics and to vote in favour of your bill. However, our questions remain. If the text is finally adopted, a thorough reflection will have to be made on the election of the municipal council in the smallest communes, where the exercise of direct democracy sometimes compensates for the difficulty of achieving parity. In addition, it seems essential to provide, during the shuttle, an evaluation mechanism to determine what impact this reform will have on both parity and democratic pluralism from 2026 onwards.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u4	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u5	Equality between women and men is the major cause of the quinquennium and it has made tremendous progress since 2017. In terms of parity, we have already made changes in many sectors of French society. As early as 2018, a text made it mandatory to publish an index of professional equality between women and men, and provided for fines against companies that would not comply with their obligations in this regard. A law adopted at the initiative of Marie-Pierre Rixain supplemented it by promoting the presence of women on the supervisory boards and on the boards of directors of large companies. These two laws, in my view, are not unrelated to societal developments that have allowed, for example, the recent appointment of a woman head of a large French group, which had not occurred since the appointment of an Executive Director to Engie several years ago. We have also advanced professional equality in the composition of higher education juries and in the senior civil service where the number of women has never been so high. The same applies to the National Assembly, where, for the first time, 48 per cent of the presidential majority is women. I am therefore convinced that the issue of parity is progressing thanks to our laws and to the evolution of society. Evidence of this is that my generation of 18-39 is the largest among elected women: 46 per cent compared to 41 per cent in all age groups. This shows our awareness that evolution is necessary and that we must act. As far as this bill, that is, electoral mandates, is concerned, our majority is also part of a legacy of progress. Here I would like to pay tribute to Catherine Coutelle, who, then chair of the delegation to women's rights like Marie-Pierre Rixain today, has advanced the cause of equality between women and men properly. I would like to recall that, as early as 2000, parity of lists was established in municipalities with more than 3500 inhabitants, per six candidates; that, as early as 2007, the mixed ticket to the cantonal offices and parity in the regional executive offices and in the communes with more than 3500 inhabitants were obtained; that in 2013, the threshold of 1000 inhabitants that we are discussing today was inscribed in the marble of the law; that in 2019, finally, we reached the parity of the executives elected by list vote. In all logic, we continue along the same path with the text proposed by Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, whom I thank. It is the result of a reflection that we started with the adoption in 2019 of the law on engagement in local life and proximity to public action. He received the support of the major associations of elected representatives, be they the Association des mayores de France and the presidents of intercommunality (AMF), the Association des mayores rurales de France (AMRF) or the Intercommunalités de France. It seeks to reconcile two principles: the principle guaranteed by the Constitution of equal access for women and men to elective office, and the principle of political plurality. For this reason, the removal of the threshold of 1000 inhabitants is accompanied by provisions allowing the filing of incomplete lists and the incompleteness of municipal councils. However, the La République en marche group has expressed strong reservations about article 4, which provides for the imposition of a proportionally equal number of women in the inter-communal executive branch of the legislature. From a legal point of view, the article tends to set an objective without providing for legal remedies to achieve it. At the political level, then, this provision would have the effect of favouring the elected representatives of the most populated communes – who are already the most equal under the law in force – against what we sought to obtain with the law "engagement and proximity". [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Our group is committed to advancing parity, to continuing along the path that has already led us to be the most progressive, egalitarian and equalist majority in the Fifth Republic. We want to create new rights, but real rights that really change people's lives, women's lives, rights that, in this case, continue to advance the just and necessary cause of equality between women and men.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u6	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u7	Since the 2008 Constitutional Act, the Constitution provides that "the law shall promote equal access for women and men to electoral and elected office, as well as to professional and social responsibilities". Parity is therefore actuated... with some blind angles however. In municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, women represent only 37.6 per cent of municipal councillors, and 80 per cent of mayors are men. In terms of parity, therefore, much remains to be done, although – I know that not everyone likes such a reminder – it is always embarrassing to imagine being able to take up a position or position because you are a woman and not because of her skills. Positive discrimination has something humiliating. Your proposal for a law, the rapporteur, is therefore of good intent, but it poses two problems in my view. The first concerns Article 1, which provides for an end to the special ballot applicable in the smallest communes. Such a reform, if successful, would pose two major challenges. First of all, it seems to me that we should move to the idea of no longer being able to add or delete names or change the order in which the lists are presented, when it is already very difficult to recruit elected representatives from very small villages. By dissuading occasional candidates who were not bound by a list order, your bill could prove counterproductive as the risk of running out of candidates is now significant. I have therefore proposed in committee – and I will re-submit an amendment to that effect – that the majority voting system should be retained with the addition or deletion of names by only introducing the obligation to present a complete list that respects parity. Thus, if we did not have absolute parity, we would have at least parity in the applications. The second difficulty posed by Article 1 is more subtle: its provisions could profoundly alter the nature of the municipal council of municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. In the small communes, political lists are not drawn up and political policies are not made. We make decisions, we give services to our fellow citizens, in short, we manage our daily affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u8	We don't make decisions in big cities?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u9	And for that, no matter whether you are a man or a woman, all good wills are welcome. Good wills don't have sex. [[Exclaims on the SOC benches]] The second problem is that of Article 4, the aim of which is to improve the position of women in the executive bodies of the EPCI, public institutions for inter-communal cooperation. You have changed, Madam rapporteur, the wording of this provision, which seemed too complicated. Nevertheless, even with the simplified wording that we will examine in a few moments, its adoption would run the risk that sex would prevail over the elective function,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u10	Oh! Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u11	...which would de facto diminish the place of the small communes in the executive of the communities of agglomeration or communes. Because it is often the mayors of the small communes – mostly men, you said – who will have to give their place to women's community councillors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u12	Yes! The men have to give up the place!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u13	As a result, it is no longer the first magistrate in the small commune that will be able to represent the small commune within the EPCI, and this will further diminish its weight in the decisions taken by the executive body. The compulsory transfer of certain powers from the municipalities to the EPCI has already considerably reduced the margin of action of the mayors, thereby affecting the fundamental principle of the free administration of the municipalities. If tomorrow – since you said in committee, Madam rapporteur, that this text, if adopted, would only apply in the next municipal election scheduled for 2026 – this measure had to be adopted, it would be another blow to our small communes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u14	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u15	... essentially rural, to which the French hold so much. As you have understood, I am opposed to the adoption of this text because I am viscerally attached to our small communes, which are the soul of France, and this text would contribute a little more to their slow agony.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u16	The women of the small communes will appreciate it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u17	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u18	Before I begin to discuss the amendments, I want to respond to a few comments. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and GDR groups as well as on many benches of the LaREM group]] Several of you recalled that women make up half of humanity. I will confide in you: they also represent half of humanity in rural communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u19	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u20	For some, this is obviously a discovery, but rural communities are not, in this respect, different from others. How do we accept the pictures of Epinal that we were served? Forgive me, Madame Ménard, but I have lived in a rural town for twenty-six years, by choice; I know rural realities at least as well as you, so don't come and tell us this story. Every time we have discussed parity, especially with regard to the parliamentary elections – Ms Buffet recalled this – or local executives, the arguments have always been the same.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u21	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u22	First, will we find women? Look and you will find, as the other said! Then will we find competent women?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u23	Easily! We even found incompetent men!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u24	Indeed, Mr. Balanant! It is when we find as many of them as we do in others that I believe we will arrive at the top of parity. The progress we are making is an ongoing process and this text is nothing more than a milestone in a debate that has been going on for years. But let us be lucid: if we had listened to all the objections that have been opposed since the beginning to the idea of equality between men and women in electoral matters, I do not know where we would be! As Mrs Buffet has said with humour, I do not think it is a natural path or slope; necessity made law, but law also makes it necessary. That's what's at stake. Another point deserves reflection: is the proposed scheme likely to hinder pluralism? However, one cannot use an argument and its opposite in this area. Some say that extending parity to smaller municipalities will prevent pluralism; But the same repeat that in rural communes, pluralism is not relevant, since there is the law of the general interest. Either it's one or it's the other!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u25	He's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u26	It's my fifth or sixth municipal league; At this point, I assure you that we are trying to bring together skills, even if the lists we make are always marked by pluralism. In a commune of 300 or 500 inhabitants – the vast majority of the cohort – we are of course trying to bring together people who agree on projects. Rural communities allow forms of overcoming the partisan conflict that should be welcomed, and we must not worry: this reality will not disappear with the proposed method of voting. [[Smile on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] On the other hand – it is a wink to Jean-Félix Acquaviva – some mention the risk of this method of voting creating tensions in the communes; Perhaps it is specific to the Loir-et-Cher, but it seems to me that there is no need for parity to expand so that the municipal elections generate tension. Indeed, in my department at least, at the time of erasing this or that name, one must always settle conflicts, even if it is only between men. This is the reality of our rural communities, and we can rejoice. I see, Mr. Brindeau, that you do not agree, but speak to the mayors who cannot be re-elected because, during their first term, they had the formidable privilege of making decisions! This is why the associations of elected representatives are mostly in favour of extending parity. So we need to move forward quietly. However, there are two pitfalls in the text. The first is Article 4, to which we shall return. The Government has a very clear position on the subject: despite its objective of parity, the system, as it stands, does not correspond to what we consider desirable. Perhaps the provisions of the text make matters a little difficult, but, Mrs Ménard, I invite you to look at the way this is done in the EPCI: in mine, which has thirty-three communes, in 29% of the cases, the municipality has only one representative. There is therefore no substitute mechanism, only the mayor being represented. These are the rules of law. You say we're going to replace the mayor with another elected one; But this law will allow more women to sit on municipal councils, so we will probably have more women mayors, even if they have only one seat. In fact, most rural municipalities have only one seat and not two in the EPCIs; This is not the least of the difficulties we face. The second pitfall refers to the threshold case. The Constitutional Council, in its analysis of the previous text on the subject, noted the potential risk of reform to pluralism and the ability to nominate candidates. That is why the Government is issuing a wisdom opinion on this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] But, for pity's sake, let's not caricaturate the debate! Let us not come up with the same arguments every time we discuss parity and try to look at the problem from a different angle; democracy would gain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u27	Why an opinion of wisdom?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u28	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u29	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 1 to delete Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u30	[[Exclaims on panels of commissions]] Deputy Minister, you are the one who caricatures each other's words. You say that you live in a small rural commune and that you know this universe very well. In this case, the reality is not the same in the Loir-et-Cher and in the Hérault. As I explained in committee, my constituency has no small communes of less than 1000 inhabitants; But I found one in my agglomeration, Coulobres. I called his mayor to ask him what he thought about the bill; He replied that he found it catastrophic. "We can't build up lists," he said. If, in addition, it is necessary... »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u31	But that's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u32	I'm sorry, but do you want me to give you his phone number? I don't make up his words for the needs of the discussion! He tells me that this is a disaster because in the small communes we cannot draw up lists. The requirement of parity will therefore complicate his life, or rather complicate the lives of rural candidates, because of course it is not his personal comfort. The mayor of Coulobres regrets that the election rules for small communes are aligned with those in force for communes with more than 1000 inhabitants. I tend to trust him. In fact, if there are two different mechanisms, one for municipalities with more than 1000 inhabitants and the other for municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, that was not without reason. You tell me, Minister Delegate, to know the realities of the field better than I do; But these realities seem different depending on the type of commune, hence the different voting methods. The mayor of a municipality in my town with 400 inhabitants tells me that this is a disaster because we will not be able to draw up lists. I trust him; If you have another opinion, let's discuss it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u33	Mrs Élodie Jacquier-Laforge, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor to give the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u34	Mrs Ménard, you know that I am not in favour of deleting the article. There is one point that I have not yet addressed: the advantage of the list vote. The minister delegate referred to the need to find and mobilize people around a project, the need to form a team. Today, there may be pooled applications, but the person approached for such a delegation may find himself barred. Beyond parity, this text expresses the desire to impose lists in all municipalities. It is not because you live in a sparsely populated commune that you do not have a project for the commune, or the ability to create a team for the election. The municipality you mentioned includes, I believe, 372 inhabitants; Given the figures in the table setting the number of members of municipal councils, and given the possibility of submitting an incomplete list, would that mean that in this commune you could not find four women?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u35	All you have to do is look for them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u36	That's the reality! There may be municipalities where there are no women, but this is a demographic problem. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u37	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u38	Same notice for exactly the same reasons. The figures we are talking about don't seem insurmountable to me.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u39	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u40	The Socialist and related group is obviously against the amendment. Nevertheless, I have several questions to ask the minister. You have made a good plea for parity, with arguments to which we subscribe, and which we have already advanced. This bill represents progress and demonstrates that we are not always powerless in the face of a situation and can take great steps forward. Indeed, I repeat: 25,000 communes are affected by the proposed scheme. The Government claims to hold a position of wisdom; How do we interpret it? For what reason does the Government withdraw from a proposal which you have welcomed as progressive? On the other hand, let's not pour into the caricature. I do not agree with Mrs Ménard, but it is clear that the provision will be complicated for some municipalities, and we must hear them. However, let us also not imagine – another cartoon – that the rural world would not have understood anything about parity. On the contrary, the mayors I see around me, women and men, are anxious to advance this cause and wish to stand before the voters with joint lists. The fundamental movement towards parity is real. The rural world is not alien to the evolution of society...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u42	[[Mr. Frédéric Petit applause]] ...and the mayors fully understood the interest of the proposed scheme. I would like to say that because I would not like the opposite to be imagined by voting on this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u43	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u44	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to thank Mrs Ménard for being here and for assuming her convictions. Indeed, since the beginning of the examination of this text, I have seen that no Member of the Group of the European People's Party has ever been a member of the European Parliament. The Republicans are not present in the Chamber to say that they are opposed to parity. They are often there to teach the lesson, but today they are absent, and that is regrettable. This is not the first time that they have eluded the debate on such texts. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Moreover, article 1 cannot be analysed without considering the following two. If that had been possible, we would have already extended the joint list vote to municipalities of less than 1000 inhabitants. We did not do so in the "engagement and proximity" law because we lacked the solution of incomplete lists and municipal councils. As a result, it will be quite possible to form joint lists. Mrs Ménard, what the mayor you are quoting says is being defeated by the other provisions of the text. We've been thinking and Elodie Jacquier-Laforge has written a report on this issue. It has found the solution to vote for a text ensuring compliance with constitutional obligations while responding to the problems that the mayors bring us back, because that is the role of the law. That is why we must vote on Article 1 and reject the deletion amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u45	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u46	We must not misunderstand or fall into the caricature by considering a little quickly that those who are opposed to the extension of the joint lists to all the municipalities are opposed to parity. The difficulty is not parity; The difficulty is the creation of a list in the smallest municipalities. The Deputy Minister indicated that panaching and single-member voting were sometimes a source of conflict. I don't agree with him. We may have common examples in mind, but it is because there is a conflict in some communes that the election is sometimes itself confrontational; It is not the method of voting that is involved. I even think that the introduction of a list vote could lead to further conflicts in some communes. Today, the opponent of the current mayor can indeed stand alone – with a chance or not to be elected, but he can do so. Tomorrow, to run for a municipal election in a commune of less than 100 inhabitants, we will have to find as many women as men, but that is not even the subject: first of all, we will have to be able to build up a list, even incomplete. Moreover, I find that the incompleteness of the lists is almost contrary to the spirit of the law. This is ultimately tantamount to considering that small municipalities can accommodate democratic under-representation. Can't the lists be complete? Let them submit incomplete lists; Can't the city council be complete? Let us depart from the principle of completeness. We can have a municipal sub-counsel itself from an incomplete list. Of course, the large municipalities, because of their large number of inhabitants, are much easier to build up lists. That's the bottom line. The problem is not the representation of women. There are many examples, everywhere in France, where mayors have formed municipal teams that include far more women than in the past.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u47	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u48	[[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] I have already given my position in principle: I am very much in favour of Article 1. I just wanted to go back to the example of the village of Coulobres, which has 372 inhabitants and is the penultimate municipality in my own constituency. His mayor, Gérard Boyer, is of course progressive, open-minded and, to my knowledge, he does not fail to search for women to include them in his list. In fact, if my memory does not betray me, there is a quasi-parity in the city council. This is the reverse demonstration of the fact that, when one seeks, one finds; and that when the texts evolve and one ends up moving forward on the normative level, things change. If the law is amended, what is already a practice in Coulobres may be widespread, including in the smallest communes in France, and I welcome it. As the Deputy Minister rightly said, parity must be achieved at all levels, whether in large cities or in rural communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u49	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u50	Let us make it clear: I would first like to make it clear to Mr Houlié that I am not against parity. Moreover, I do not believe that anyone in this House is against parity,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u51	Those who are against have not come!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u52	... things are clearer by saying it. Madam rapporteur, you say that in the case of the commune of Coulobres, four women will be required, and that this is not insurmountable. Of course it is not, and the mayors only ask to be surrounded by men and women of good will, quality and competence. It's not insurmountable, but it complicates things. I agree perfectly with Mr Brindeau: the problem is not parity, it is the list – as I said in the general discussion. With this measure, you will profoundly change the nature of the municipal council of a municipality of less than 1000 inhabitants, because in these communes there are no political lists.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u53	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u54	There is no political policy; We propose applications that federate by gathering around a project. If you impose parity in the lists, it will become complicated to have one, two or three lists in the small communes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u55	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u56	Of course mayors are of good will, I don't know any of them who are against parity and who say that he would especially not want a woman in his city council. We must stop being caricatural and in bad faith. Above all, it is not because we are on the right that we are against parity or against women. Take my case: I ran for election and was elected. This shows that even in the territories politically on the right, women can be elected;...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u57	We can even elect them to the presidency of the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u58	It's not done yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u59	...remember, it's amazing. What modernity, what progressism!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u60	Mr. Patrick Mignola has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u61	Is it difficult to set up lists for municipal elections? Yes – I have experienced it several times – and in the very small communes it is even more difficult than elsewhere. Is it harder to find women than men? Yeah, no, maybe. The reality is that there is a general crisis of democratic vocations, which is not linked to a gender issue. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group and on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The rapporteur has the wisdom to propose that we implement this reform from 2026, not next week. That would leave five years of preparation for a number of mayors who might encounter difficulties in drawing up lists. With regard to lists of eleven people, when a mayor runs a village and knows everyone, finding five women hired to build a list in 2026 does not seem to me to be an impossible mission. Secondly, there is one principle that we must have in mind: we must not discriminate against rural and mountain communes. To the extent that equality between women and men must be applied throughout the territory, it is not possible to exclude municipalities for which, on the contrary, special attention is required, and in favour of which all public policies engage in legitimate positive discrimination. Parity is the only area in which we would not help smaller, more fragile, more remote municipalities from urban centres? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, with regard to the lists, I am telling you one very simple thing: the mayors of the small communes must be protected. The minister delegate recalled earlier: there is always a time when they encounter difficulties in making responsible decisions of general interest that necessarily clash with particular interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u62	Of course! It's pigeon shooting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on several benches of the LaREM group]] When you are a mayor and you have made decisions for the benefit of all, the addition of special interests may deprive you of the possibility of exercising your responsibilities during the elections. In small municipalities, there is a need for list elections, because this is the best way to allow mayors to continue their commitment to the public interest. Through a text on parity, we can also protect the mayors of the small villages of France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u64	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u65	I will not speak at this length on the other amendments of the same nature, but I wanted to react to certain arguments. Mr Brindeau, I was simply saying just now, echoing several speeches, that the change in the voting method, in my view, was not going to give rise to any more conflict – that is where we probably have a disagreement. I simply found that conflict is pre-existing in the election. In essence, this is normal in terms of democratic debate, including in a municipal context. This is a reality in the territories, and we do have the same examples in mind. There will always be conflict, but no more because of the list vote. I didn't caricature each other's positions. Mrs Ménard, we have already had the opportunity to discuss many issues; As you know, I respect everyone's position. Simply put, we have the impression that every time we talk about these subjects and we lower the applicable thresholds, we fall back on exactly the same arguments: "we won't get there", "we won't find candidates", "it's going to weaken pluralism"... This is a bit boring, especially since these arguments have always been contradicted by the facts. Moreover, as Sacha Houlié said very well, it is necessary to read the bill in its entirety: besides the requirement of parity, there is also a relaxation of the rules for the presentation of lists in order to take account of the difficulty of sometimes constituting them. I don't know the numbers, but if we were looking for the number of municipalities with less than 500 or less than 1000 inhabitants in which two complete lists were filed, I think we wouldn't find many. We take into account this situation, which is real, and the legitimate concerns of the mayors, while seeking to achieve parity. Mrs. Untermaier, you were calling not to vilipender the mayors. But nobody does. On the contrary, I say that they must be listened to; They are much less a barrier to parity than a certain image of Epinal suggests. In the end, they have rather before they want to move forward; In fact, they have already done so in part without the law forcing them to do so. We must therefore be able to move forward on these issues. Last point, and I think President Mignola, and others, have said it well: the global issue is that of municipal engagement. Like all other forms of engagement, he suffers. It will also be necessary to reflect on the democratic issue of the crisis of engagement, which affects both men and women. You have to give people the urge to engage in municipal space. This is a challenge that we could at least try to meet together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u66	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u67	We propose to extend the list vote only to municipalities of 500 to 1000 inhabitants, not to smaller ones. This would make it possible to move forward in steps. Attention must be paid to the situation of municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants, because that is where the problem of making lists arises. It is not a question of being for or against parity, but of taking into account the threshold effects and the law of small numbers. Mr. Deputy Minister, I think you have misled my point a little bit. I was mayor of a commune of 120 inhabitants, I know what it is to be elected and re-elected with the panachage system and I know the difficulty of forming a list of committed citizens – to take the term of Patrick Mignola. The latter took care to say: "women engaged"; Indeed, whether they are women or men, it is not simply a question of putting names on a list. If the same rule is applied to all municipalities, I recognize that there may be a positive effect: in small municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants, there will probably be unique lists with people who accommodate themselves very widely, whatever their ideas. But there will also be negative effects related to demography: very old people will put their names and first names on a list without participating in the life of the city council, letting the mayor become a small local potentate – we know this kind of situation well. While I am in favour of parity in relation to the age pyramid of the communes and the reality of commitment, I believe that it is harmful not to proceed in steps. In the long run, your device, if the difficulties it causes are greater than its advantages, may force the merger, and hence the disappearance, of communes. We would have had to think in a more precise way. That is why we are asking for an adaptation of the scheme, by applying it on a step-by-step basis, since the reality is different for municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants. Above all, we should look at things differently: as long as we do, I would prefer a list vote for the EPCI, which would ensure parity at the intercommunal level, rather than doing so within the communal framework, which will cause mathematical imbalances to the detriment of rural mountain communities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u68	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u69	As the Chair of the Law Commission recalled this morning, we addressed the issue of the threshold for the application of the list vote in 2019 when we examined the bill on engagement in local life and the proximity of public action. The reflection continued within the framework of the information mission entrusted to us, to Raphaël Schellenberger – he is still not there! – and to myself, by the commission of laws. Should we, or should we not, keep a threshold for the application of the list vote? We have paid particular attention to this issue. I would like to point out, like the Minister Delegate, that the associations of elected representatives, the Association of Mayors of France and Presidents of Intercommunality and the Association of Rural Mayors of France are in favour of abolishing the threshold of 1000 inhabitants below which municipalities are not subject to the requirement of parity and approve the extension of the list vote to all municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants. The provisions of Article 1 have, of course, been drawn up in consultation with the elected representatives. Many consultations have taken place. You doubtless, my colleague, that I am against your amendment. In my view, there is no justification for the fact that the less populated municipalities are also not subject to the requirement of parity. Everyone has agreed on all the benches: the less populated communes, the rural communes, are as modern and forward-looking as the others. I believe a lot, personally, in a conquering rural life – I find it hard to interpret your reactions, Mr Acquaviva, but you're probably going to enlighten me just now! Take the example of a municipality with less than 100 inhabitants. According to the bill, if an incomplete list is submitted, it must be composed of five candidates, including two women. Do you really think that it is impossible to find two women volunteers to participate in the municipal project of this commune within five years? For a complete list, you need seven candidates, including three women: there too, nothing insurmountable! Finally, I would like to point out that the municipalities of less than 500 inhabitants represent 32 per cent of the national territory, a large number of French people who cannot be set aside.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u70	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u71	I'm sorry I misunderstood your remarks, Mr. Acquaviva. I understood that the provision would create tensions, not in day-to-day management, but at the time of the municipal elections, hence the answer I gave you earlier. I would also like to respond to Ms. Untermaier, who was concerned about the Government's position on the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u72	Don't worry. Surprised.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u73	You may have missed, Madam Member of Parliament – I do not dislike you! – the beginning of my speech this morning during the general discussion. I explained that, as a matter of principle, the Government was in favour of any progress in the area of parity, but that it retained constitutional questions about the text, since the Constitutional Council had set several milestones in lowering the threshold for the application of the list vote. That explains our wisdom. This brings me to Mr Acquaviva's amendment, on which I also rely on the wisdom of the House. I cannot say, indeed, what threshold is most relevant: 300, 500, 600, 1000 inhabitants? You propose not to apply the list vote to municipalities with less than 500 inhabitants. The argument that you have put forward to justify this provision is convincing, honourable Member, but it would also be with a threshold of 200 or 400 inhabitants. The bill is now beginning its legislative process and the parliamentary shuttle will allow further reflection on this subject. In its original version, the text plans to resolve the issue once and for all by removing the threshold of 1000 inhabitants in force, rather than gradually lowering it by rejecting it every time – I'm not saying that's what you want to do, Mr Acquaviva! Such a choice can be understood, but it raises constitutional issues. Hence the Government's position on the bill and on the amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u74	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u75	The subject is thorny, indeed. The minister delegate probably remembers that, when the threshold for the application of the list vote was changed from 3,500 to 1,000 inhabitants, the first threshold envisaged was 500 inhabitants. It was at the request of associations of local elected representatives, in particular the Association of Mayors of France and the presidents of intercommunality, that the threshold was raised to 1000 inhabitants for the same reasons as those underlying Mr Acquaviva's amendment. I repeat, the issue is not the gender balance and representation of women on the lists of municipal councillors, but the effect of the list vote on the municipal council's ability to have a sufficient number of candidates. The problem is not to find two or four women, but candidates! The municipal elections of 2020 have shown this: some French communes find it increasingly difficult to bring together a number of candidates corresponding to the number of councillors, hence the debate on the reduction of the number of elected representatives. The argument of the associations of elected representatives and Patrick Mignola that the list vote protects the mayors by avoiding unfair elimination in the context of a single-member ballot does not appear to me to be admissible. The electoral sanction of universal suffrage applies no matter what, whether they have been elected by a list vote or by their own name. A mayor who isn't re-elected is a mayor who didn't do his job well, that's all!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u76	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u77	I have heard the explanations of the rapporteur and the Minister-in-Office. We are at the heart of the subject – not parity, but the effects of the extension of the list vote. As Pascal Brindeau has just said, our main concern is to succeed in mobilizing candidates. I was mayor of a commune of 120 inhabitants and I would have been quite satisfied that there were more women than men in the city council. The question is obviously not there. As regards the protection of the mayor, we must bear in mind that the threshold of 500 inhabitants is the usual threshold for small communes and that the panachage favours a relationship of proximity adapted to the reality of the communal bloc, which is very different from that of a community of agglomeration. In this context, the mayor's candidacy for a single-member election seems logical and the issue of the mayor's protection must, in any event, take us in a second phase. The priority is to be able to form a municipal council with candidates capable of managing the commune. That is the meaning of my amendment. I would add that the associations of elected representatives consulted in the preparation of the bill were the national associations and not the departmental and regional associations. I do not think, given the calls I receive in my territory and which are probably received by our colleagues, that they are all in favour of extending the list vote. They were not consulted on its practical aspects. Such an evolution requires, in my view, step-by-step progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u78	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u79	I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to do a work of paleontology! If you read the transcripts of our predecessors' debates, you will realize that the content of their discussions on the first texts on parity was absolutely identical to ours – I see Marie-George Buffet opiner of the leader. The National Assembly's website makes it very easy to access the proceedings of the previous legislatures and I had fun reading some of them again. When we adopted the threshold of 3500 inhabitants, many Members of Parliament said that it was impossible to achieve parity in the less populated municipalities. Mr Acquaviva now proposes a threshold of 500 inhabitants, much lower, with the same argument. I have no doubt, personally, that the communes of less than 500 inhabitants will succeed! You are right, Mr Acquaviva, in some very small communes there may be a great difference between the number of women and the number of men, but in most communes in France there are as many women as men. The bill set the deadline of 2026 for the application of the provision, which will therefore not have come into force in the next municipal by-elections. We will have ample time, by then, since we know the new rules of the game, to find candidates! There is an anecdote that I like to tell when I participate in a debate on parity. In 2014, I was a candidate in the municipal elections and I had to gather thirty-three names before the end of February. When the list was tabled, I faced a problem: I was missing two men while five women wanted to be on my list! As I was afraid of running out of candidates, I had done everything I could to make a commitment to the women of my commune and I had achieved it beyond my expectations! [[The rapporteur applauds]] Let us not be shy about the question of the threshold and move forward! Under the proposed law, all communes in France will be subject to the same rules and municipal teams will be on an equal footing. An increasing number of women will be engaged in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc and, by capillary nature, without any quota being required, we will one day have parity in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u80	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u81	This is a withdrawal amendment which we have already examined in committee and whose fate I suspect is reserved for it. I propose to retain a majority voting system with mixed and no names and simply to provide for an obligation to appear on a full list that respects parity. Thus, in the absence of absolute parity, we will obtain parity in the applications while maintaining a system limiting the shortage of candidates.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u82	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u83	We have indeed debated your proposal in committee, Mrs Ménard. Its difficulty lies in the impreciseness of the words "in the absence of" and its lack of legibility, since it would lead to the co-existence of two different voting modes and would be particularly complex to implement. I wanted, on the contrary, throughout the work that led to the drafting of the bill, to devise a readable method of voting for candidates and citizens. A multi-party majority vote could also undermine parity, as you have recalled your support for that objective. Finally, you maintain the obligation to appear on a complete list, which does not address the shortage of candidates. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u84	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u85	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u86	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u87	Some of our colleagues say, "I am for parity, but..."
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u88	But...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u89	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] If you really are in favour of parity, ladies and gentlemen, what I acknowledge is that you think it has been a step forward for democracy and women's rights. Why then do you want to deprive the women and men of the small communes of this progress? Aren't they full citizens? Is parity only good for those who live in large communes? Those who live in the small communes do not seem to deserve to benefit from this democratic progress! But what is this contempt?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u90	Amendment No 8 by Mr Loïc Prud'homme is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u91	He's unfavorable. The amendment contains two provisions: first, the deputies would be elected by joint list vote in municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants; Then the head of the list would be of a sex different from that of the mayor. The first would indeed strengthen the share of women in the executive bodies of the municipal councils of the least populated communes. We had also studied this track, together with Raphaël Schellenberger, as part of our mission to inform about parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc. None of us, however, wished to retain it. Indeed, the small size of municipal councils does not seem to us to be conducive to a list vote for deputies. The current system, which is more flexible, is preferable. The joint composition of the municipal councils established by article 1 of the draft law will naturally strengthen the share of women among the deputies. Of course, if the mayor so wishes, he will be able to appoint a woman as his first deputy. We encourage all mayors to do that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u92	The second provision, which seeks to ensure that the first deputy is of a sex different from that of the mayor, had also been considered, before being ruled out. Indeed, there is an interpersonal link between the mayor and the first deputy: the latter can therefore be chosen without constraint. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u93	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u94	Your amendment, Mr. MP, aims first of all to provide for the election by vote of the joint list of deputies to the mayor of the communes of less than 1000 inhabitants – they are currently elected by single-member ballot. In the event that the joint list vote is extended to these communes, it would indeed seem logical that the method of election of deputies should be adapted accordingly. However, your proposal would have an impact on the market: in the EPCIs with own taxation, the joint list vote would be applied, which would be a real difficulty. As I pointed out, more than 24,000 communes are currently represented by a single community councillor, in this case the mayor, who in 79% of the cases is a man. We need to make progress in this area, but as things stand, it would be an impossible problem to solve. Then you propose that the first deputy be of a sex different from that of the mayor. Such a measure does not seem to me to promote women's access to responsibilities. In fact, except in the case of acting, when the mayor is prevented, the prerogatives of the first deputy are not different from those of the other deputies – at least in theory. On the other hand, it is up to the mayor to ensure that the distribution of assistant posts does not, as has been seen all too often, result in women being confined to certain skills that are thought to be reserved for them. Mrs Buffet, whom I guess smiled under her mask, quoted them: school, social affairs, early childhood... Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u95	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No. 12, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u96	I once again welcome the progress made in adopting this bill for women's rights and for society as a whole. Parity is a chance, not a constraint. However, we must be a little more ambitious, go further and faster. Like our colleague Prud'homme, I therefore propose to introduce the list vote for the election of deputies to the mayor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u97	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u98	I have already spoken on this subject and I am not going to give a different opinion depending on the author of the amendment. We have discussed this in committee and I am sensitive to your concern; It is necessary to help women to be more present in the councils and among the deputies, to make them want to engage as mayor or first deputy. Similarly – and we will discuss it again in Article 4 – they must engage at the intercommunal level and exercise responsibilities within the framework of the Community Councils. At this stage and for the reasons already mentioned, the opinion is therefore unfavourable. I hope, however, that we will soon have an opportunity to discuss all these proposals together. I know that work has also been done in this direction within the Delegation for Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities for Men and Women; I would like to greet him and his president.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u99	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u100	Same opinion as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u101	Mrs Geraldine Bannier has the floor to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u102	Last week I took part in the municipal council in my small town of less than 700 inhabitants; I can tell you that of a theoretical staff of fifteen, we are more often seven than ten or twelve to make decisions. If the minimum number of municipal councillors increases to 11 for the municipalities from 500 to 999 inhabitants, I fear that we will find ourselves six at the council meetings. We've already been around the commune three times to find women, and we'll find it hard to find five: even if we do everything we can, we can't do much better. However, the population of the municipality, which had previously been headed by a woman, had been made aware of the issue of parity. Having been mayor of a commune, I know that I would find it hard to say no to someone who volunteered to participate in the communal team. I therefore propose that once the threshold is reached to allow the filing of an incomplete list, it be possible to accept a candidate on the team, regardless of gender. The gender balance would be somewhat unbalanced, but assuming that a man is the top of the list and that the additional candidate is also a man, the composition of the council would be as follows: in communes with less than 100 inhabitants, four men and two women; in those of 100 to 499 inhabitants, six men and four women; and in those of 500 to 999 inhabitants, seven men and five women. I believe that in small communes we are quite capable of working in this way. We're looking for volunteers! I also wanted to remind you, to bounce back on what Mrs Ménard and Mr Fesneau said earlier, that you can be a municipal councillor and a community councillor, even when you are not a mayor – the latter is not always available enough. This is also a practice that needs to be encouraged.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u105	I am well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that section 3 of the bill deals with a voting system that was introduced in 1884 – a time when women did not have the right to vote and could not work or open a bank account without their husband's consent. It is not always obvious to change such well-established rules. With regard to Mr Bannier's amendment, I am very afraid that such a proposal would run counter to a major ambition of this bill: to establish a clear and legible system. We have, of course, studied all the possibilities – the maintenance of the single-member electoral system or the introduction of pairs, for example – and, after expertizing them all, we have concluded that the list voting system is the most legible and predictable, both for candidates and for voters. I hear what you're saying about the missing volunteers and the shortage of candidates. But we also know that for cultural reasons deeply rooted in our society, male mayors tend to seek other men to form their municipal council. The proposed scheme would be implemented in 2026; So we have several years to look for women and integrate them into a team and a project. However, it is not a question of doing so humiliatingly, by making them understand that they are there simply because they are women. On the contrary, they will want to commit themselves to a project and they will know that they are considered for their experience, for their expertise and for the actions they may have carried out in the commune. I would add that the measure that you propose in intention could be diverted from its purpose, which is to relax the device, and used to complete a list by ignoring the parity rule. For all these reasons, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u106	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u107	Unfavorable opinion, too, for two reasons. Firstly, your proposal, even if I understand the basis of it, would make the law intelligible, contrary to the mechanism proposed by the rapporteur, which seems to us to be sufficiently clear. Secondly, adopting your amendment would lead to an indirect return to the principle that we seek to promote, parity. Finally, it had not escaped me, Mrs Bannier, that one could be a municipal councillor and at the same time a member of the community council; Yes, I do! However, in 99% of cases, it is the mayor who represents the commune within the intercommunality. In fact, to be elected as a community councillor when you are a simple municipal councillor, you have to cause cascading resignations – precisely because these elections do not obey a list election – which complicates things.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u108	On the whole of the bill, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u109	Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor to support Amendment No 15, which adds an additional Rule after Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u110	I have tried to find a somewhat innovative mechanism to change a mechanism that I think reproduces inequalities. Currently, if a vote for the formation of the municipal council leads to an equal vote, the oldest one is elected. I propose that it be the candidate of the minority sex.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u111	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u112	Such a device would indeed be innovative! I remember that, with regard to other texts, we had mentioned the possibility that it would be the youngest, rather than the oldest, who could be elected. Maybe we'll get there! We could also decide that it is the youngest member of the minority sex... In any event, despite the interest of this provision and its innovative nature, I believe that it goes beyond the scope of the proposal we are considering. However, it is interesting and I am ready to work on it, if you wish. At this stage, unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u113	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u114	I recognize that your amendment, Mrs Gaillot, bears her part of innovation. But I'm not sure it's quite simple to implement! On the other hand, it is based on the principle that parity is not respected in municipal councils, whereas the whole purpose of the text is to ensure that it is, which would remove any basis for your proposal. In municipalities with less than 1000 inhabitants, moreover, the criterion of age is really subsidiary, since councillors are elected with a number of individual votes. For these municipalities, your proposal would create difficulties in the event that the two advisers to be separated are of the same sex. Although innovative, it seems a bit complex to me to apply. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u115	Amendment No 13 by Mrs Albane Gaillot is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u116	This amendment is also interesting! One can only wish for the feminization of community councils. But, as you know, I am going to propose a more ambitious amendment to the article following, since its application could bring the share of minority gender vice-presidents in the IEPs to more than 20%. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u117	I have before me three amendments, Nos 4, 6 and 9, which may be submitted to a joint debate. They tend to re-establish Article 4, deleted by the Commission. Amendment No 9 is the subject of two sub-amendments, Nos. 20 and 19. Amendment No 4 by Mrs Paula Forteza is being defended. Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u118	During the debates in committee, Article 4 generated much debate on both the form and the substance. We believe that the joint approach must be completed and applied to the inter-communal councils. We therefore propose a new wording of the article envisaged in the first version of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u119	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u120	In committee, the first draft of the article had given rise to some humorous reactions, let us say, because terms such as "sex", "organ" and "member" had been used in the same sentence. All of this had lent a smile. This amendment reflects the simplification work we have undertaken in order to maintain this provision and thus signal our willingness to establish proportionality in the executive bodies of the intercommunities. Intercommunality was much discussed in the debates on the law on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action, known as 3DS. In the communal bloc, it is a space where many public policies develop, where the decisions taken are really structuring for the municipalities. The same elected representatives sit in communes and intercommunals. In my view, therefore, we cannot save parity in the executive branches of the latter, where, as I pointed out in the general discussion, 74.4% of the members are men. If women do not access – or with great difficulty – these important places where structural projects are adopted for the territory, this raises a democratic problem. Making the bet on local intelligence, I propose a mechanism that will allow women's evolution in the community council to be replicated within the inter-municipal executive. If there are 20% of women in the second, you will have to have at least 20% of women in the first – it will obviously be possible to be more telling. It will therefore not be necessary to legislate again if, as we hope, the position of women in the inter-communal councils progresses, since this will also affect the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u121	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u122	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support sub-amendment No. 20.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u123	It is intended to clarify that your provision would not apply to the detriment of small municipalities. With this new article 4, you are always looking to improve the position of women in EPCI executives, which is very good. In doing so, however, you risk favouring, de facto, the place of large communes in the executive of agglomeration communities or communities of communes. In our debates in committee, I had already warned you against this effect. Let us take my example of the community of agglomeration Béziers Méditerranée which has a president and ten vice-presidents, all mayors and all men. With your method of calculation, three women community councillors would have to enter the executive, replacing three male mayors. According to Mrs Bannier's hypothesis, three mayors of small communes could thus withdraw in favour of one of their councillors and thus be replaced in the legislative body of the EPCI. But as you said yourself, Minister Delegate, this is not the majority of cases.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u124	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u125	In fact, in order to achieve the result, we will instead take women who are already on the council of the agglomeration and who represent large communes. This movement will therefore be at the expense of the small communes. That's what I'm worried about: we're going to give a kind of bonus to the big communes and, at the same time, disadvantage the small ones. On the basis of a good intention – to improve parity and place more emphasis on women – you will cause collateral damage: the small municipalities will be less well represented in the EPCIs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u126	I call Mr Erwan Balanant to support sub-amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u127	In order to bring the text into conformity with our Constitution, we propose the deletion of the last sentence of paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u128	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u129	Favourable opinion for Subamendment No 19 and unfavourable for Subamendment No 20. As for the amendments, the committee rejected them. I therefore pronounce myself in my personal capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u130	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u131	The Government requests the withdrawal of these amendments. In my opening remarks, I had also announced this position which the Government takes for reasons of intelligibility of the law, but also for substantive reasons. We all want to ensure that there are more women in these executive bodies. Since we are always talking better about what we know, I will mention the case of my community council, in which fifteen out of fifty-three councillors come from the main municipality and we have parity, because many women sit on my municipal council. But as far as mayors are concerned, they are mainly men. As I have said on several occasions, I agree with the objective of increasing the position of women and promoting their access to positions of responsibility, i.e. the office of mayor. However, a re-establishment of Article 4 as you propose would result mechanically in the effect described by Mrs Ménard, due to the constitution of the lists and the distribution of seats. Sometimes I agree with you, Mrs. Ménard.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u132	It's rare!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u133	It's exceptional! Let us remember that the distribution of seats on the Community Council has been strictly linked to demography since a decision of the Constitutional Council taken following a priority question of constitutionality (QPC) raised by the municipality of Salbris, which I know well. The main cities therefore have more seats, according to a key distribution between them and the other municipalities. The measure you propose would therefore lead to over-representation of cities at the expense of rural communes in the executive boards of EPCI councils. I agree with what has been said, including by Mrs Buffet with great malice, about rural areas: they are entitled to the same progress as urban areas. But you will lead to their under-representation in the executive. The existing balances within the agglomeration councils and within the communities of communes are complex; There's no point in stretching the system. On several occasions it has been said that the associations of elected representatives support this text, which is a strong argument. But this opinion does not concern Article 4. They are generally in favour of the text, but the AMF and Intercommunalités de France are cautious, if not unfavourable, about these provisions for the reasons I have just indicated: the complex balance of powers between rural and urban within the intercommunal system would be destabilized.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u134	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u135	I regret your position, Mr Deputy Minister, because the rapporteur's proposal makes it possible to complete the joint approach in executive bodies where this is not a secondary issue. Several of us have highlighted the ongoing evolution in rural areas, where more and more women are becoming mayors, which will translate into intercommunality. Yes, there will be a little bit of difficulty for smaller municipalities, but it can be overcome by encouraging women to take up the post of mayor. I do not withdraw my amendment despite the unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u136	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u137	The proposed amendments have the merit of showing the limits of indirect voting to advance parity. Not everyone will like this – he may even displease the High Assembly: when one wants parity, it is better to vote directly, of course. Moreover, Articles 1 to 3 did not pose a problem, contrary to Article 4, which deals with IBDAs. As has been said, the risk is to overvalue the place of large cities – or large villages in communities of communes – that are already subject to parity obligations. Their elected representatives would then be the majority in the governing bodies of the EPCI. In addition, these amendments give objectives without setting the means; These are declaratory measures whereas the provisions on parity are usually very clear, framed by precise modalities. He'd be just a paper tiger. Legally, there would be no means of imposing a determined number of women in the governing bodies of the EPCI. That is why I propose that our group should follow the opinion of the Committee on Laws and vote against these amendments, even if we share the objective. We must first find a mechanism that is applicable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u138	Mr Erwan Balanant has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u139	For my part, I am in favour of this rewriting of Article 4. To abandon the proposed mechanism would be to deny the possibility of having parity in forums where most important territorial policies were decided. How can we improve the situation? When you don't know how to do it or don't want to do it, you always pretend it's complicated. I will not try intent on the part of the majority and the Government by accusing them of lack of will: we simply face technical difficulties. It seems to me that the only solution – I am speaking here in my personal capacity and not on behalf of my group – will be to commit ourselves to the election of members of the EPCI by direct suffrage: this will certainly be the only way to solve this problem. Again, given the importance of public policies now entrusted to the EPCIs, this is likely to be one of the issues of the next legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u140	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u141	In one word, because it seems to me that we have gone around the issue, I would like to point out, as the minister delegate has done, that the balance that prevails in the EPCIs is precisely because of the election of their members by indirect suffrage – I agree enough to say that it might be interesting to think about this issue – very complicated to find and then to preserve. If we decide, in the name of parity – which is undoubtedly a noble cause, I believe that we all agree – to stifle everything and destabilize the balance between the large communes and the small villages, it is again these villages that will be harmed. Like some proposals on abstention – which we should address in a few minutes – such a step would be tantamount to denying the very existence of small communes within the executive and legislative bodies of the EPCIs, which would not be a good thing for the political balance of these structures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u142	Mr Bruno Duvergé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u143	I have heard the arguments put forward by the Deputy Minister and by Mrs Ménard. Nevertheless, I am elected from a predominantly rural constituency, which has four communities of communes, where it is very difficult to encourage parity within the executive. However, we are working in this direction with women's associations. That is why I was very disappointed that one of the intercommunals in the riding had appointed an exclusively male executive. If I understand your arguments, I believe that the adoption of this amendment would at least have the merit of prompting reflection in the spirit of the president of the community of communes...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u144	Or the president!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u145	In this case, he is a president. He will then have to make a truly political choice: in the example to which I refer, the mayor of one of the largest communes of the intercommunality will either be able to appoint women to his municipal council to sit on the community executive, or to favour the participation of women mayors of small communes. [[Ms. Nadia Essayan and Mr. Erwan Balanant applaud]] I therefore support Elodie Jacquier-Laforge's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u146	The Minister-in-Office has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u147	In essence, it is good that we broaden the debate in this way. I think I know – like you, Mr Duvergé, and indeed, like most of the Members who have spoken – these issues of intercommunality, which are of concern to us all. I repeat: the balances within these structures have been deeply disrupted by two elements, namely the widening of the perimeters they cover and the fact that the demographic rule is required, which no longer allows the conclusion of local agreements. As a result, rural communities – which is far from being a minor difficulty – have felt that they are being excluded from the inter-municipal debate. This situation has no relation to parity: it is an institutional configuration linked both to the decision of the Constitutional Council on the QPC raised by the municipality of Salbris and to the law on the new territorial organization of the Republic (Law NOTRE). All this is therefore not the case of the current majority, but the reality is undeniable: in now immense intercommunalities, we must sometimes take into account complex geographical balances – between the main city, the most easterly city, the small town of tomorrow – which are by nature political. In addition to this, we are endeavouring, through this text, to improve parity. If we included as many women as men among the mayors – towards which we must strive – the question would pose no difficulty. But the current municipal demography is not that. We must therefore first make progress on this issue, otherwise, I repeat – even though I have not managed to convince Mrs Buffet on this point and although, despite my standing as a rural elected official, I fully understand that everyone must find his place in the inter-communities and will therefore keep me from any demagogy in this matter – we risk seriously destabilizing the balance in the Community councils. The one in which I am elected has about a dozen women out of fifty-three members. The majority of them were elected to the main municipality. If your amendments were adopted, the female presence in the executive would therefore be concentrated on two or three communes, to the detriment of others – whether their mayor is a man or a woman. Such a decision would have far-reaching consequences for the IBDs. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why I maintain my request for withdrawal or, failing that, my unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u148	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u149	I will make a confession to you: I have been assigned to the floor on the issue of parity in communes and intercommunalities. It was a long-term work, which I have already mentioned in this House. After listening to all the actors involved, I agree with the observation made by my colleague Balanant and by the minister responsible: the issue is of an institutional nature. Spaces covered by inter-communities are becoming structural, their means are substantial and their visibility is beginning to increase, because they are competent in waste collection, water management, and sanitation – all of which are essential areas. People are asking me, for example, about the increase in the cost of garbage removal that they have to pay: our fellow citizens are now aware of, interested in, and understand that there are important questions about this. I can therefore only agree with this observation: if we did not want a big bang – rightly, since, as the delegate minister pointed out, the widening of the intercommunalities, the deepening of the transfers and the consolidations decided in 2017 have created among the elected officials, tired of spending all their time on issues of reorganization and governance to the detriment of the substance, the need for a pause – we will not save any debate. Should direct universal suffrage be introduced? I cannot answer that question today. But I know that the association Intercommunalités de France wants the executive to be appointed by a list vote. In my view, the mechanism that I proposed did not call into question the balances within the inter-communities, because that is not the purpose of my bill, which aims to promote parity: I had stayed in my corridor. At the same time, I would like to point out that during the examination of the "engagement and proximity" law, the elected members of the MODEM group – who have the following ideas – had tabled amendments to include the issue of parity in the governance pact. Unfortunately, we have not been able to impose this pact: according to the Law Commission, which I have asked on this point, the communities are beginning to take advantage of this tool, but the trend remains timid. To be very clear, I withdraw my amendment, at the request of the Deputy Minister. In my personal capacity, however, I will vote for Mrs Buffet's.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u150	It's beautiful!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u151	Amendment No 16 by Mrs Albane Gaillot is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u152	In explanation of vote, Mrs Josy Poueyto has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u153	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and GDR groups]] At the end of this debate, I can only take a big hat on behalf of our group to Elodie Jacquier-Laforge for the work she has done. She defended this text on foot and I can assure you that she has taken all the steps to be on the bench of committees today. I must also thank Marie-George Buffet for her always enthusiastic comments: we always join each other on these issues, which is very welcome. I finally greet Yaël Braun-Pivet for the extraordinary words she had this morning that must have touched Catherine Tasca a lot. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I think we can be proud of our action. As far as I am concerned, this bill is the one that holds me most at heart among those that we are looking at today. Our group is pleased to announce that it will of course vote in favour of this text, for the sake of democracy. It is thanks to small steps like this that we will one day reach a Joint National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u154	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u155	I did not think I would intervene, but I am very happy to do so to say that our group will vote in favour of this text. It is part of the desire to advance parity, which has always been ours – nobody, I believe, will challenge it here, as we have made important commitments during the previous quinquennium. I note with great satisfaction – and I congratulate the rapporteur on this – that you are on a path that will lead to a very marked increase in the number of women elected to local and regional authorities. It is true that we are not yet working on a qualitative improvement in their representation, which would require an increase in the number of women in the executive ranks – this fight remains ahead of us – but I believe that the number will help to make progress in this direction. I would point out that 80 per cent of mayors and 86 per cent of presidents of intercommunities are men. Amendment No 9 which you have defended and which, as the Minister-in-Office has pointed out, deserves to be reworked is a reflection of the difficulty which you have identified and which you have told us about. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Thank you for this comprehensive and complicated work, which reflects a will for action that we all share. We are thinking at this moment of women, to whom public speech – it is absolutely essential – must return at least as much as men.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u156	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u157	We have already said all the good we thought of this text. The figures cited by the rapporteur during the presentation are sufficient to demonstrate her interest. Instead of staying in the middle of the ford, we reach the other side of the shore. I have, of course, listened to the arguments put forward by each other, whether it is the discussion on Article 4 or the need to feminize the executive of the Community Councils. I agree with my colleagues' approach, although on the other hand I also hear the argument that, if gender representation in the Council is given precedence over the representativeness of the territories, it could be detrimental to the territories. There is a real debate here. This discussion has led us to address, on several occasions, another issue that perhaps we should really look at in the future: the direct election of community councils, that is, a vote of voters that would avoid going through the filter of an indirect election. The Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u158	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u159	We will not know the explanation of vote of the Members of the LR Group, they are all absent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u160	[[Prolonged protests on various benches]] If, on returning to my constituency tonight, I explain to the mayors of communes of fifty inhabitants that I voted in favour of a bill to establish proportionality and parity, they will reply: "My poor Bertrand, you have become completely crazy! »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u161	It's not respectful!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u162	I will obviously not vote on this bill. I invite you to look at the composition of our municipal councils and tour our communes – I have just concluded the tour of the 250 communes in my constituency. You will then realize that in many communes, you can't even find a sufficient number of municipal councillors – we're here! In the municipal councils of many communes, indeed, there are more men; In others, there are more women. Of course, we must encourage women to become involved, especially in municipal councils. Above all, we need to start thinking about improving the status of elected officials so that everyone can become more involved – because of course that is what we want. [[Hulls on various benches]] On the other hand, I wonder what idea you had in mind when you introduced such a bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u163	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u164	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u165	We are about to do something that will mark great democratic progress. We are now at the end of the process of ensuring a fair representation of women in all our democratic assemblies, in all the places where the lives of our fellow citizens are decided. It's a strong act. I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and determination. Thanks to it, we have reached the end of this process. I believe that the result of the vote will clearly show the choice of Members. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would like to stress one point. In the face of patriarchal domination, mentalities that do not change with regard to the image of women or a sharing of domestic work that is not sufficient, the law is necessary. We need her to allow women to earn new rights. To vote on this law is to accompany the struggle of women. The day before yesterday, I had the opportunity to give a lecture at a popular university in my dear Brittany on the subject of gender equality from 1789 to 2022, with particular emphasis on the weight of laws. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM and Dem groups]] However, if we consider those revolutionaries of 1789 who obtained divorce, help for single mothers or the opening of spinning, we must remember that they have waged struggles to achieve their ends. Of course, all this was then deleted, in particular because of Napoleon's civil code, which was a code of submission for women. But I want to say that the law is necessary to accompany women's struggle. That is why I thank you again for this bill, which the GDR Group will vote for.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u166	Mr Sacha Houlié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u167	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Jacquier-Laforge for the report she has drafted, for the bill she has tabled and for the progress we will be voting on this afternoon thanks to her. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] These advances are in line with the leitmotiv of the majority since the beginning of the legislature: the great cause of the quinquennium is equality between women and men. It must exist at the professional and wage levels, in the public service and in the election. In this regard, we are the best example of equality, since the presidential majority has 48 per cent of women elected to the National Assembly. This approach to the issue is different from that of some colleagues from other groups, who have made deeply regressive remarks that should be shameful to the new generations – of whom 46% of the elected representatives are women: it is not yet parity, but we are approaching it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] That is why, after the 2000 laws of 2007, 2013 and 2019, more laws are still needed. This will advance gender equality and gender parity in the municipalities. That is why, with great honour and pride, the whole of the La République en marche group will vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u168	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u169	[[Smile]] What about the Republicans?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u170	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 108 Absolute majority 55 For adoption 105 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u171	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u172	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u173	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Patrick Mignola and others to reinstate the mail-order vote (No. 3039, 4969).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u174	Mr Jean-Noël Barrot, rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u175	"Universal suffrage, by giving a ballot to those who suffer, removes the rifle from them. By giving them power, he gives them calmness. This is what Victor Hugo declared on May 21, 1850 in this rostrum in a fervent plea for democracy. A century and a half later, it must be noted that our dear democracy is ill. Citizens turn away from universal suffrage, distrust grows and, inevitably, violence thrives and spreads like a poison. As Victor Hugo would have said, our fellow citizens tend to give up the ballot paper and are tempted to take back the rifle. There is therefore an urgent need to act, to reform our institutions, without which our weakened democracy will collapse on its foundations. This is the objective of our President Patrick Mignola and of all Members of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats by placing on the agenda of this parliamentary niche a series of texts aimed at renovating democracy. Admittedly, the causes of abstention are multiple and complex, as has been pointed out with relevance by the many work recently carried out by our Assembly on this subject. In addition to structural reasons are the cyclical factors linked to the health crisis that our country has been experiencing for the past two years. The record abstaining in the municipal elections of 2020 and in the regional and departmental elections of 2021 reveal, in part, the inadequacy of the way in which our citizens can currently vote. This situation, which each and every one of us can only regret, is not a fatality. Several states, on the other hand, saw an increase in voter turnout in the last elections despite the covid-19 pandemic. This is particularly the case for Germany in the federal elections of 2021 or the United States in the last presidential election. These two major democracies share one thing in common: German and American voters can, if they wish, choose to vote by postal mail. Nearly 40 per cent of them used it in the last elections. According to former Chancellor Angela Merkel, interviewed by our colleague Cécile Untermaier during the last meeting of the Franco-German Parliamentary Assembly, it is indeed the possibility of voting by correspondence that explains the maintenance or even the shock of mobilisation observed across the Rhine. The bill we are considering was tabled by our group in June 2020. Its purpose is to give all electors the right to vote by postal mail. This possibility already exists in our electoral code. It has been authorized since 2009 for the election of deputies representing the French abroad. Like Frédéric Petit, some MPs are therefore elected by correspondence. Are they less legitimate or less well elected? We don't believe that. The possibility of voting by mail has also been open since 2019 for detainees, who have seized it massively, preferring it by far to the possibility of voting by proxy. In the face of rising abstention and continuing uncertainty about the development of the health situation, this text provides a concrete solution that has been successfully implemented in many democracies for several decades. It would facilitate the participation of all those who do not live effectively and permanently in the electoral district in which they are registered, i.e. nearly 8 million electors, as well as those who cannot travel on the day of the vote because of their age or disability. Of course, there are serious objections to mail-order voting: fraud, influential voting and logistical problems. Allow me to provide some elements of an answer from now on, because no one can ignore the sincere and legitimate questions surrounding the use of mail-order voting. First, it is often recalled that postal mail voting was authorized in France in 1946 and then abandoned in 1975, in view of the frauds and irregularities found as a result of its use. However, when we look at this issue more closely, these failures are directly explained by the inadaptation of the procedure then in force. No serious identity checks were carried out, so it could not be ensured that the person wishing to use this method of voting did indeed correspond to the elector on the list of electors. The whole procedure was under the control of the communes, which collected and informed requests for mail-order voting. Thus, it was not the postal nature of the vote that was really problematic, but the rules to which it was subject. Fifty years later, abroad, no study has shown that this method of voting would lead to more irregularities or fraud than the vote in the ballot box, as the Swiss and German authorities have recently pointed out. If mail-order voting takes place without irregularities in other major Western democracies, why would it be different in our country? [[Applause on several benches of the Dem group]] Secondly, mail-order voting would prejudice the secrecy and individuality of the vote, putting the risk of a vote under influence. This is a serious and legitimate argument, but, as most international institutions point out, proxy voting affects the personal and secret nature of the vote far more in advance than mail-order voting, since an elector who establishes a proxy is obliged to disclose his or her choice to a third party, without being certain that he or she will respect his or her vote. In other words, if you fear the pressure to vote, you prefer mail-order voting to proxy voting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u177	We cannot therefore, in good faith, be in favour of extending proxy voting and at the same time oppose mail-order voting on the pretext of a risk of voting under influence. Thirdly, correspondence voting would pose logistical problems. It does raise operational issues that need to be addressed rigorously. But, again, how can we explain that the real operational challenges posed by mail-order voting are insurmountable in France even though they are perfectly managed in all the countries that have authorised it? Whether it is the delivery of voting material to voters, the sending or storage of the folds, France must be able, like its Belgian, German or Spanish neighbours, to overcome the logistical difficulties inherent in this method of voting. The initial drafting of the bill was intended to open the possibility of voting by mail or electronic means to all ballots. We have heard the reluctance expressed on these electoral issues, which obviously require a trans-party consensus. We also know that many MPs from various political groups, such as Cécile Untermaier, who has tabled a bill on the same subject, share the conviction that mail-order voting is a useful tool to combat abstention, and that it is expected by our fellow citizens: 57% to 72% of them voted in favour of mail-order voting according to two opinion polls published in November 2020. In order to find ways of reaching a consensus and to remove the remaining doubts, we propose, by amendment, to follow closely the recommendation of the fact-finding mission of the Conference of Presidents, chaired by Mr Xavier Breton, whose rapporteur was Stéphane Travert. The mission's report, which was approved by its members and published in December 2021, was the fruit of remarkable, collegial and thorough work, and stated that "the mail-order vote must be able to be the subject of renewed reflection in local experiments, drawing on national and foreign experiences, in order not to stop at the difficulties posed by this method of voting, but rather to seek in a lucid and willing manner to solve them". Proposal 8 of this report suggests that "we experiment with mail-order voting and Internet voting in the next local elections or local self-initiative referendums in the voluntary communes. » Considering that the solution found by the members of the information mission is balanced, we will propose to you by amendment to Article 1 to take it word for word and to use a simple experiment of postal mail voting in the municipal elections of 2026, on a voluntary basis, in accordance with the procedures laid down by decree. I would point out that the overall drafting amendment that we will propose to you concerns only postal mail voting, not electronic voting. This experiment will help to draw lessons and remove doubts from each other. This experiment-based method was successfully used in the 2019 European elections for the mail-order voting of detained persons, which was tested before being extended. Mail-order voting is obviously not the only remedy to the collapse of electoral participation in our country. But as citizens' mistrust of their representatives grows day by day, and while, from mistrust to violence, there is only one step, as we have seen recently, we cannot afford to sidestep any modernisation of our voting methods. On such an important subject, let us take the time to carry out an experiment, as proposed by the fact-finding mission of the Conference of Presidents, let us forge our conviction in the heat of this experiment, after which we can make an informed decision. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] I will conclude by calling on you, with Victor Hugo, to return to the citizens the ballot paper, he was by correspondence, to better remove the rifle.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u178	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u179	The Deputy Minister for Citizenship has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u180	The purpose of this bill is to restore the possibility for electors to vote by mail, mail or electronic means. First of all, I welcome the rapporteur's willingness to encourage, through this bill, the participation of the largest number of voters in the democratic life of our country, in a marked context, as many of you have recalled on the various issues we are debating today, by a constant increase in abstention. I share your willingness to debate and build, in order to find ways to better involve our citizens in the elections. [[Exclaims on several banks of the Dem Group]] However, after careful consideration of this proposal, the Government considers that the generalization of this voting modality would present excessive risks and disadvantages. For these reasons, we will give an unfavorable opinion on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u181	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u182	First of all, let me stress the importance of the republican rite of the traditional vote, as was reported to us at various hearings: the ballot paper, the ballot box, the voting booth and the public polling station seem to be, for some, the guarantee of the solemnity, sincerity and secrecy of the vote. They must continue to guide the organization of elections. We are all very attached to it, I believe, as much as we, like the rapporteur, are committed to finding new tools to revitalize our democracy. Currently, paper mail-in voting is allowed in two very limited cases, linked to specific situations and affecting a limited number of electors. It is possible, on the one hand, for the French living abroad, in ways that we must always work to improve – I want to welcome here the action of the deputies of the French abroad, especially that of Mr. Frédéric Petit, who ensure the interest of their citizens by regularly proposing improvements to my services – on the other hand for the detainees enjoying their civil rights. Since 2009, French residents abroad have been able to elect their eleven deputies through the mail-order vote. However, in the 2017 parliamentary elections, 24% of the ballots of the deputies representing the French abroad could not be separated. This high rate of cancelled ballots is a manifestation of the fragility of this method of voting. This, moreover, led the Constitutional Council to cancel the 2017 legislative election in the fifth French constituency established outside France. We must therefore continue to improve this mechanism together in order to make it safer. Since 2019, detained persons still enjoying their civil rights can also vote by mail. Thus, in the 2019 European elections, 4413 detainees were able to vote in accordance with this procedure. In 2017, they were only 853 to vote by proxy, and 200 had been granted leave to go to the polls. For the regional and departmental elections of 2021, if only one tenth of the detainees had registered on the electoral roll, 89.42 per cent of them had voted by mail. However, the success of this operation is due to the limited number of newsletters to be processed and to a very heavy organizational and logistical mobilization for communes, prefectures and prison administration. It is difficult to transpose this model on a much wider scale. There are several reasons why we should be cautious about re-establishing this electoral modality. Firstly, mail-order voting is exposed to three major structural risks, some of which have been mentioned by the rapporteur. As you know, the Ministry of the Interior must ensure the organisation of elections and the sincerity of the vote. However, according to the evidence available, the risk of fraud remains substantial. The Constitutional Council had considered in 1974 that the high number of correspondence votes hindered the monitoring of the regularity of the presidential election. Fraud involving the addition, destruction or replacement of ballot papers has sometimes been noted. Several elections had been cancelled as a result: the municipal election of Bastia in 1965, the general elections, as well as the votes of about ten polling stations during the 1974 presidential election. Second, the voter's identity and consent are not verified with the same reliability as for voting in the ballot box or by proxy. Indeed, mail-order voting replaces pre-session verification procedures with remote procedures that are – for the time being – easy to circumvent. In the absence of isolation, the secrecy and freedom of voting are no longer guaranteed – at least we have no way to guarantee them at this stage – which may lead to influential votes, whether family, professional or communal, or even to voting purchases. The risk of manipulation is increased for vulnerable people, especially for older people living in collective structures. In addition, delays and irregularities may deprive many voters of their votes, or even lead to the cancellation of the ballot, as has happened. Delays in the distribution of ballots to the elector or in the return of the selected ballot to the polling station can lead to massive deprivations of voting, thus weakening elections and fueling controversy. This risk is increased by the particularity of the two-round majority vote, while elections in the majority of countries where mail-order voting exists have only one ballot. E-voting also has frailties. Taking into account the specificity of their situation, the legislator admitted it for the election of the deputies of the French abroad. In 2012, our citizens living abroad were able to elect their deputies by electronic vote; This will again be the case in 2022. We will have to draw all the useful lessons from this experience before we commit ourselves together further towards a generalization of this method of voting in the national territory, therefore on a much larger scale. The Government, I say to you very sincerely, is in favour of continuing studies and research on electronic voting, but considers it premature to take legislative measures to use it immediately or in close proximity, when the security arrangements are not ready. The introduction of mail-order voting would also require many changes in the preparatory process for voting, while the two-round voting is already in itself a source of important organizational complexities, particularly for the municipalities. In addition, the additional cost of voting by mail is estimated at more than €135 million for one ballot. That is a figure that must be taken into account! For example, in 2016 the Court of Auditors recommended the abolition of the mail-order vote for French foreign deputies, precisely because of a financial and environmental cost deemed too high for a minimal participation. The bill before you is also in the context of the health crisis. I welcome your willingness to limit the effects of this crisis on the exercise of the right to vote in political elections, and I obviously share it. Let me recall, however, that health protocols were put in place in the first round of the municipal elections, and then strengthened in the subsequent elections according to the guidelines formulated by the Scientific Council, greatly limiting the risk of transmission of the virus. The implementation of the deterritorialization of power of attorneys in 2022 and the teleprocedure maprocuration.fr are also likely to facilitate the steps taken by our fellow citizens to vote. The difficulties of the proposed scheme are too numerous to guarantee an effective and secure alternative to voting in the ballot box. The possibility of voting by electronic means also seems premature, but the reflection must continue, as we strengthen our ability to protect ourselves against cyber attacks. I would add that this method of voting by post or electronic means will not only never be able to offer the same guarantees as the passage through the insulator with regard to voting under influence, but will also inevitably raise questions about the sincerity of the election, which, even if unfounded or irrational, could cast doubt on the sincerity of the election, and more broadly on the democratic process. For all these reasons, the Government is opposed to this bill. However, I would like to say here, and despite what I have just said on behalf of the Government, our gratitude to Mr Jean-Noël Barrot and his colleagues in the MODEM Group for putting this issue on the agenda. I am convinced that our exchanges will allow us to deepen our reflections on our democratic life. We will thus be able to overcome one by one the obstacles that prevent this development. Mr rapporteur, I know your commitment, your commitment to democracy, your sincerity and your perseverance, and I would like to pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u183	In the general discussion, the floor was for Mr. Frédéric Petit.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u184	I am pleased to speak today on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats on the bill presented by Jean-Noël Barrot, which aims to introduce mail-order voting. This is, as you know, a subject that is of great interest to the Group of the European People's Party. It is a reflection that we have conducted in recent years. It is also a subject that I know well, for at least two reasons. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] First of all, I was elected, in 2017, with a third of the votes by mail-order and I came, I remind Mr.Brindeau, on the Saturday before the elections, June 3, 2017, and not only on Sunday 4, then again on Saturday 17, not only on Sunday 18, to do – with all those who held the polling station – the setting of the votes by mail-order. Because mail-order voting is a vote in the ballot box! Secondly, as the rapporteur pointed out, mail-order voting is widely used in my constituency, particularly in Germany; It is therefore very common for many French voters, who also vote in Germany. I would like to recall something that is not said when we speak of foreign examples: mail-order voting has existed in the United States since the Civil War; in Germany, since the end of the Second World War. That is no problem. Why would this method of voting, so valuable in these countries, be impossible at home? I come back to the points of attention pointed out by the rapporteur. As far as the risk of fraud is concerned, the trauma of 1975 must be overcome. That was forty-seven years ago! The system of that time was archaic. Today, I say again, we vote by mail at the polling station, in front of the candidates and their representatives. I refer you to a 1981 opinion issued after thirty years of mail-order elections by the Karlsruhe Constitutional Court, which is not known for its flexibility: it considered that the very low risk of fraud was in any case negligible in relation to the increase in access to the vote, because its effects are very real both on the number of voters and on the interests of citizens. Nor does the objection of the vote under influence stand: it can exist perfectly, as has been pointed out, in the case of proxy voting. The international standards of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) are much more suspicious of proxy voting than of mail-order voting. It is enough to have made some ground to know that, when one comes to vote in the ballot box and in the voting room, some envelopes are prepared at home; mobile phones allow you to make photos; There's the fraud we call the carousel... The secret of the insulator is sometimes hijacked! And I assure you that it would probably be easier for some to vote discreetly by mail-order, out of family or community pressure, in the days or weeks preceding the vote, than with a vote in the ballot box, by proxy or not. Finally, with regard to the solemnity of the vote, dear to our minister and to some of you, it is ensured by the rite of the ballot: there is indeed a ballot box, with a margin – the same lists of emancipation as those of Sunday. It is also ensured by the act of voting itself: no, voting by mail-order, it is not to click without thinking about it between a TV series and a purchase of shoes! This is not a quick choice, without follow-up, after a conversation – which is, by the way, the case of proxy voting. The mail-order vote is rather a very long passage in the insulator of his office, of his kitchen – which may explain that it increases participation, while Internet voting replaces voting in the ballot box. By another means of solemnity, the mail-order procedure allows voters to pose themselves against electoral propaganda. Two envelopes, a paper, a signature: it is also a form of solemnity and gravity. With regard to logistics, we auditioned La Poste, which seems quite ready, including with regard to the use of modern tracing tools. We are no longer in 1975, but in the 21st century! The question of the timetable must be asked. I reminded you earlier of the dates: the first round of the legislative election was held in my constituency a week before yours, ladies and gentlemen. It's not very complicated, and I think it takes two weeks between the two rounds. On the question of cost, it seems that this is a false problem, especially if the mail-order voting material is sent with propaganda, or after a request made by the elector. To conclude this overview, I would like to destroy once and for all an argument that is regularly opposed to us, Madam Minister Delegate. Yes, 24% of the votes of the French abroad were cancelled as invalid in 2017, but you know that I wrote two reports on this subject stressing that we invented – France is capable of it – the most complicated mail-order voting system we can imagine. There were three different envelopes, and many voters struggled to understand where to slip his signed ID. The Group of the European People's Party will fully support the rapporteur's amendments, which tend to reassure those who doubt: we are ready to take the time for this. In conclusion, I would like to share with you a frustration. I had tabled an amendment, co-signed by my group as a whole, adapting and strengthening the commitment of these citizens, of whom we are talking too little: those who hold the polling stations. The aim was to make them more visible, to better recognize them and to better accompany them. I reminded you that mail-order voting means that they also come on Saturdays – in some countries, they even come regularly in the weeks before the election. This amendment was found inadmissible because it had "no connection, even indirect" with the subject matter of the bill. Even in this institution, despite my many speeches for four years, we do not yet know that mail-order voting is a vote in the ballot box!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u185	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u186	How am I going to explain to my constituents, many of whom are currently following us, that the need to put mail-order votes in the ballot box is not related, even indirectly, to mail-order voting? These citizens, whether in Warsaw, Sofia or São Paulo, came on Saturday to ensure that mail-order votes were put to the vote! And I should tell them that this effort, this new formation, these explanations, these openings, these minutes have nothing to do with the mail-order vote? It is a personal frustration, you have understood, but it is of general significance: it is symbolic of the blockages we are talking about. Why do we remain in the images, in the a priori? In the previous debate, we were told of the arguments that we heard ten, twenty, thirty years ago. We are in the 21st century, but as far as mail-order voting is concerned, we are still talking about 1975. We are told that there is no vote in the ballot box; We show the opposite. But the blockages remain. If anyone in this house judges – and without appeal – that the organisation of a polling station has no connection, even indirect, with the mail-order vote, it proves that he does not know what is really happening, that he did not follow our debates. I've even heard in committee confuse the urn and the counting! Ladies and gentlemen, do we live in a Gallic village so that we continue to caricature, to amalgamate all innovations, a village where all the reasons are good for not changing anything, not even trying to change, not to look around us, not to take the time to analyse in depth, in detail? We are living in a democratic emergency; Let us be at least demanding and precise in our debates. While electronic voting and proxy voting seem instead to be a substitute for voting in the ballot box – the same ones voting – mail-order voting, wherever it has been analysed, reinforces participation. This seems to me to be linked to this solemnity bias that I was talking about earlier. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on several benches of the LaREM group]] The stakes are huge. Let's stop hiding behind our little finger, and our arguments that are gone. I invite you, along with my colleagues in the MODEM Group, to support this text and the amendments that we will propose.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u187	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u188	Following the 2021 regional elections, marked by historic forbearance – more than 66% – many parliamentarians, including me, like my colleague Senator Éric Kerrouche, tabled bills to introduce mail-order voting. If abstention is multifactorial, however, we must consider ways to facilitate access to the vote. I confess my surprise at the difficulty of moving forward such a proposal, which is nothing revolutionary: it is simply a matter, in a pragmatic way, of facilitating the lives of our fellow citizens. The form of my proposal was different, but on the substance, we agree with the objectives of the text now under consideration: putting in place alternatives to conventional voting is a democratic requirement. Every effort must be made to encourage the expression of the sovereign will of citizens. That is, I believe, the meaning of this bill. The memory of the frauds committed at the time when mail-order voting existed in France unjustly weighs heavily on the present debates. The current procedure is no longer at all the same as before 1975. I would add that alternatives to conventional voting are often described as false good ideas, which creates mistrust because of the alleged complexity of their application. It seems to me, however, that this argument cannot be understood in a democracy that has had to deal with otherwise more logistically complex issues. Moreover, it should be remembered that mail-order voting already exists in France, both for the election of French deputies established outside France and for consular elections, both under closed and electronic voting, as well as for detainees. The last consular elections were held in 2021 and there were no difficulties in voting by mail. As for the detainees, we did not ask ourselves the question of symbolism, knowing that ballot boxes could very well have been installed in the prisons. By refusing to re-establish the mail-order vote, France increasingly appears to be an anomaly among liberal democracies. Germany, the United States, Switzerland, Spain, the United Kingdom and Australia – the list is not exhaustive – all introduced it. We have the means to propose an interesting and pragmatic alternative method to the traditional vote that would allow the participation of remote people, people who cannot organize their travel to vote or, as has been said, people who do not wish to use a proxy, whose complicated path is known and who do not have any assurance as to the actual vote. The refusal to consider new possibilities – indeed not so new as this – seems all the more incomprehensible to me as, in its opinion of 10 November last, the Commission supérieure du numérique et des postes (CSNP) declared itself in favour of mail-order voting. We have dematerialized our taxes and are moving towards increasingly dematerialized public services...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u189	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u190	... but it would appear that this is a dematerialization with variable geometry. However, taking the path of mail-order voting was both wise, pragmatic and useful to our fellow citizens. It is obvious that mail-order voting would not be the panacea for our democracy. This would be a complementary option, which citizens who wish to take advantage of. In this same desire to strengthen citizenship, mail-order voting should be complemented by other measures to facilitate voting, such as automatic registration of voters, but this work has not been initiated. Yet God knows how important this issue is, when we see that 8 million people are not registered and 15 per cent of voters are poorly registered. No, mail-order voting will not solve the sense of confiscation, which is the result of the useful voting injunction, the majority fact and the imbalances of our institutions. However, this would be a first step and an undeniable democratic step forward. If we cannot even imagine conducting an experiment, reinforced by the opinions of La Poste and the Higher Commission on Digital and Post, and requested by a group of the majority as well as on all the benches of the opposition, I remain puzzled about the ability of this assembly to demonstrate progressism and innovation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u191	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u192	This text will obviously have the full support of the Socialist and related group. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] In conclusion, this text is not premature: it is even late, just as my bill was. The Government is also lagging behind in its reluctance to seize the opportunities available to us to facilitate the lives of citizens – while, my faith, we are here for that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u193	Thank you, Cecile! Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u194	Mr Christophe Euzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u195	As since the beginning of the day, you have brought to our knowledge, dear colleagues in the MODEM Group, a subject of major importance. As you know, the Group of the European People's Party has a great deal of respect and consideration for the adversarial debate, knowing that we are dealing here with topics on which no one is right or wrong: we have different opinions, based on sometimes divergent arguments. So all day long you proposed measures, which we have consistently supported, aimed at reviving democracy. We share almost all of your findings, as elements of medication that you advocate. That being said, our group is much more divided with regard to the issue before us here and, since I have told you in committee, you know that I am one of the Members opposed to this bill. Of course, some of us consider that mail-order voting would facilitate the act of voting and increase participation. From this point of view, one can agree with the arguments put forward by the proponents of this text. For my part, I believe that this is a false good idea and I would like to make a few arguments, with respect, I repeat, for the contradictory debate and for the opposite ideas. It is not because it has already been said that it has less value: I believe, first, that the act of voting is a solemn act. Taking the step of moving from one's home to one's polling station and remaining alone in one's isolation allow us to weigh the practical consequences of the act we are doing materially. In the same way, the public counting of votes accompanies and closes this sequence which, in all respects, I believe must remain completely solemn. If the mail-order vote has interests – I mentioned them – I therefore believe that one cannot remain indifferent to the arguments opposing its extension. Indeed, the number of votes does not do everything: the expression and nature of the vote must be equally taken into account. And when I say that mail-order voting would deprive the vote of its solemnity, I should even say that it would desecrate it completely. At the most fateful moment of an election campaign, a voter who is still excited after watching a television show will decide to go hot, without hindsight. In this respect, there is a procedure in Spanish law – the so-called enfriamiento procedure – linked to the motion of censure and which we apply in some way in our system, which consists of taking the time to cool down, to calm down, to calm down before voting. As far as I am concerned, I very much appreciate this moment of calm, starting on the Friday night of the last week of the campaign, during which we put things on hold and let voters take the time to weigh their decision. I would also point out that if we come one day to the electronic vote, which is ambush behind the mail-order vote that you propose to introduce, the vote will even become epidermal, uncontrollable, instantaneous. We would come to the click and collect of political life, which seems to me to present the greatest dangers. However, this is not even the most perilous element in my eyes. We have talked about this, and the rapporteur has provided some evidence to reassure us on this point, and I am referring to the misappropriation of the individual nature of the vote, which is a risk that cannot be ruled out. Indeed, in the society in which we live, mail-order voting will inevitably lead to Community votes,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u196	They already exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u197	... votes under clan, ethnic, ethical or religious influence, which will gradually take over the individual vote, and I do not think that we can ignore it so easily. On the other hand, without going back to this point which we have already mentioned extensively, I share concerns about the risks of fraud and the material difficulties in applying mail-order voting, particularly between the two rounds of an election. Therefore, in order to be quite honest and to conclude my speech, I believe that it is a matter of mail-order voting as well as of the multiplication of proxy votes – exceptionally allowed in the period we are going through – and of the likely future extension of electronic voting: mediations should be avoided and the act of voting, which is quite specific, should continue to be sanctified. It is not a hot act, it is an act that engages the future. Other elements could of course be discussed: I do not mention them for lack of time. You propose in particular to make your device experimental, but even in this configuration it does not seem appropriate. Knowing that an experiment with mail-order voting would hire voters for a period of six years – which I think would be excessive – who would be better off applying it? These are the reasons why I will oppose this bill in my personal capacity – the Take Together Group is not unanimous.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u198	Mr Paul-André Colombani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u199	With an abstention rate of more than 65 per cent in the second round of the last regional and departmental elections, our democracy suffers from an increasing lack of legitimacy and any search for a solution is interesting in this regard. By this proposal for an end-of-legislation law, you want to introduce mail-order voting, either under closed cover or by electronic means. Such a provision would potentially affect all elections, with the exception of the presidential election, and would lead to a major change in our approach to democracy. While mail-order voting and electronic voting can be useful tools in some specific cases, a large majority of the Libertés et Territoires Group considers that this area of reflection is not the right one and that it falls short of the real stakes of abstention. First of all, there are important questions about the security of a ballot that would be organized in such a manner. Indeed, the computer security of electronic voting seems difficult to guarantee. Let us recall the cancellation at the last moment, in 2017, in the face of threats of cyberattacks, of the possibility of electing by electronic means the deputies representing the French established outside France. In committee, you tried to limit the scope of the bill by tabling an amendment – rejected – to retain only the possibility of voting by post, only for the municipal elections of 2026. Even the postal vote questions. After the major malfunctions encountered when sending the simple electoral folds and faith professions to the last regional elections, how do you think that a mail-order vote would not result in very important fraud or logistical malfunctions? As a reminder, mail-order voting was abolished in 1974 as a result of major frauds detected by the Council of State and the Constitutional Council. We have suffered particularly in Corsica, and we absolutely do not wish to see such obscure practices resurrected, which constitute a threat to democracy. Unfortunately, this is a reality: this system can put heavy pressure on voters, in the form of blackmail to employment, housing and even social benefits. And even if the security of the vote was to be guaranteed, the question of citizens' confidence in such a system would still arise. The French currently have every confidence in the elections in which they participate: it is an opportunity and we fear that the introduction of mail-order voting will reduce this confidence. Moreover, the passage into the isolation chamber is an important moment of solemnity, during which the informed citizen concludes his or her carefully thought choice. A simple click would not have the same impact and would not necessarily cause the same preliminary reflection in the elector. The symbolism of the voting ritual is not to be overlooked. Above all, it is illusory to believe that this solution would help to combat abstention. Indeed, it is often more binding today to go to a post office than to travel to its polling station. As for electronic voting, which could certainly favour the voting of young people, it would only do so at the margin, since the powers of abstention were far more powerful than the lack of willingness to go physically into the isolation chamber. On the other hand, the recognition of the white vote, which we will defend tomorrow in the context of the examination of a bill by our colleague Jean Lassalle, is a strong demand from the citizens. Finally, we believe that it is more through the fight against distrust of politics that we will reduce abstention, rather than by changing voting procedures. Voters need to be re-invited to vote, rather than trying by any means to make voting less long and less binding. That is why our group calls for a far-reaching constitutional reform, which makes our democracy more participatory, which breaks with hyper-presidentialism, which gives Parliament a stronger role and, above all, which achieves genuine decentralisation. Germany, which is often cited as an example and which allows mail-order voting, is first and foremost a federal state, and it should be recalled. Thus, under the principle of subsidiarity, decisions are most often taken at the level closest to citizens, which largely explains why the Germans vote much more massively than the French, especially in local elections. In this respect, Corsica has much higher turnout rates in local elections than the national average, in the absence of a system of mail-order voting. Bringing the decision closer to the citizens, as closely as possible to the concrete issues that affect everyday life, is the most certain way of re-interesting citizens in politics and reviving their desire to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u200	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u201	You want to bring the mail-order vote back to your liking. With your text, electors could vote by mail, either "under closed cover, or by electronic means using hardware and software to respect the secrecy of the vote and the sincerity of the vote", as you write, without further details. In addition to the dangerous wording you are proposing, this is not how our citizens will return to the ballot box and participation will increase. Remember: on 20 June 2021, two out of three French citizens did not go to the polls for the first round of regional and departmental elections. This abstention rate is a record for the Fifth Republic, far ahead of the 2009 European election rate, where 59.4% of voters had abstained. It is all the more terrible for young people between the ages of 18 and 24, where abstention reached 87%. The distrust of our fellow citizens towards their representatives and our political system is great; the institutions of the Fifth Republic have lived. They prevent the direct expression of the people. While article 3 of our Constitution states that "national sovereignty belongs to the people who exercise it through their representatives and through the referendum" and that "no section of the people or any individual can exercise it", the current system dispossessssssssssssss citizens from the mere vote to appoint their representatives. It is the lack of responsibility of the elected representatives towards the voters that is partly the cause of the massive increase in abstention, which has reached very worrying levels. To remedy this sad fact, France has been proposing, since 2017, numerous measures aimed at restoring the sovereignty of the people: citizens' initiative referendum, by which citizens can repeal or propose a law; taking into account the white vote linked to the introduction of compulsory voting and voting rights at 16 years of age; ban on subcontracting electoral propaganda operations to private companies to avoid the disaster observed in the last regional and departmental elections, for which 11 million voters did not receive electoral propaganda! Finally, a Constituent Assembly was convened to draft a new Constitution. So it is our entire system that needs to be rethought. A measure such as mail-order voting, which is dangerously framed, is not desirable, as it could have effects contrary to those sought. This is a new example of the short-sighted and risky solutions of the majority. It was because of electoral fraud that mail-order voting disappeared in 1975. To restore it, you refer to the argument of the health situation. This argument is not admissible, so many measures are easy to implement to ensure the health security of elections in times of epidemics and to encourage the participation of our fellow citizens in these meetings. These include the introduction of tests for members of polling stations; the installation of air purifiers or ventilation systems in each polling station; the allocation of time slots for vulnerable persons; the provision, at the entrance of each polling station, of free FFP2 masks; public voting campaigns, highlighting all health measures at polling stations; the sending of a second profession of faith to the State and the installation of electoral panels well before the first round of elections. It is with such measures that our citizens will be able to go to the polling stations with confidence. These proposals are nothing new: France insoubted them for the last regional and departmental elections. As usual, you didn't want to hear anything. Our group will therefore vote against this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u202	Maybe it's a mistake. This isn't the first one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u203	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u204	We are finishing this day by devoting ourselves to studying an important text, much more, in any case, than its title suggests. For, while there is a question of the restoration of mail-order voting, which was repealed in France in 1975, as a result of numerous electoral frauds, the bill we are discussing proposes, above all, the introduction of online voting. It is on this last point that I want to linger, considering that this debate may become recurrent in the coming months if, unfortunately, we were to relive a health crisis. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I would like to show you that online voting is a very bad idea, which could further exacerbate the democratic disenchantment experienced by the French. First of all because, contrary to what its promoters believe, online voting is a technical response to a large-scale political problem. It cannot therefore act as a magic wand and correct the record abstention rates we have experienced in the last elections. This is also true in the light of international comparisons. In Estonia, where Internet voting has been widespread, there has been no significant improvement in the participation rate. It has, on the other hand, caused many electoral frauds, as could be the case in our country if, tomorrow, it was decided to introduce the online vote. For this reason, the legislator wisely decided to repeal the mail-order vote in 1975. I would add that, in the international context we know, our elections could become the target of cyberattacks, which would seriously undermine our sovereignty. Online voting also undermines the secrecy of the vote and therefore the sincerity of the vote. For who says online voting says end of the isolation, an essential object in the organisation of our democratic life. In fact, the insulator was conceived as a means of countering the notabilization of the political field, which took place after the establishment of universal male suffrage during the revolution of 1848. Remember the famous writings of Tocqueville, himself a candidate in the elections to sit in the Constituent Assembly: all the villagers were then taken to the polls by the notables or by the priest, in Indian queue, to ensure that the votes went to the right candidate. It was precisely in order to combat this censoring logic that the insulator was introduced in 1913. There was a need to find a way to remove all the constraints on voters. But these constraints will come back through the door with online voting, as nothing can guarantee a secret and independent vote to voters who will vote under the eyes of relatives or people able to compel or influence them. I am thinking in particular of older people, less comfortable with new technologies, and therefore targets of choice for malicious people. Finally, and finally, electronic voting seems to us to be emblematic of the atomization movement of political life and the triumph of liberalism and individualism over republicanism, which intends to transform citizens into individuals, left at a good distance from institutions and public affairs. For our part, we want to preserve this collective and so particular moment in our political life, by sending citizens back to the polls. In order to achieve this, we must proceed, without delay, to a major institutional renewal, because our democracy is ill with a presidentialism that stifles the aspirations of citizens. That is why we are proposing to change our republic and to establish a real parliamentary system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u205	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u206	That is why we want to introduce the citizens' initiative referendum, in order to respond to the thirst for popular sovereignty. That is why we want to put an end to the territorial technocratisation movement, which makes the issues related to local elections unreadable. It is in this way that citizens will again be passionate about the democratic life of their country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u207	It's not won!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u208	[[Mr. Loïc Prud-homme applauds]] We must regenerate our political regime, under no circumstances will we hide behind a technological glamour which, we are convinced, will do much more harm than good to our democratic life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u209	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u210	We are meeting today in the context of the niche of the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats to examine the bill which aims to introduce, in addition to the traditional vote in the ballot box, an early vote at a distance, by proposing another method of voting that would reduce abstention, which mainly concerns the youngest voters. While the LaREM Group shares the view that as voters leave the ballot box, we are much more divided on the effectiveness and reliability of the mechanism proposed to us. The debate on voter turnout is, in our view, much broader, and I welcome, in this regard, the information report published last December by Stéphane Travert and Xavier Breton on the jurisdiction of abstention, as well as the work of our colleagues Pacôme Rupin and Raphaël Schellenberger, who were presented to us yesterday in the Committee on Laws. In the context of an epidemiological crisis which justified the postponement of election deadlines, legitimate questions concerned the establishment of a remote vote. As we observe, in present-day French society, an increasingly strong anti-parliamentarianism and a sometimes violent rejection of politics and its representatives, while some also sometimes allow themselves to be tempted by all sorts of conspiracy theories, the context does not seem sufficiently serene and soothed to allow large-scale voting by mail. French voters have confidence in the system in force for more than a century, which consists of going to the polling station on Sundays, locking themselves in the voting booth, slipping his ballot into the envelope, before inserting it into the ballot box, under the control of the president of the polling station and its assessors, citizens volunteers. This is the French electoral tradition that ensures the most complete respect for the secrecy of the vote, and therefore of its freedom. No one here can challenge the reliability of this system, which guarantees the voter's consent to the vote and ensures that he or she has made a free and informed choice, free from any influence. Today, arrangements exist, whether they be proxy voting or mail-order voting. These additional voting methods allow the election of deputies representing the French abroad and, since last year – it was a commitment of the President of the Republic – the participation of prisoners in elections. These complementary arrangements are obviously aimed at improving participation, and our group wishes to facilitate as much as possible the voting process. In addition, during the health crisis, the Government chose to encourage proxy voting for municipal elections, and then for departmental and regional elections of 2021, by allowing an elector to carry two proxy votes. It should be recalled that mail-order voting was possible until 1975, when it was terminated because of too many cases of fraud, which had led to the cancellation of many municipal and legislative elections. From a purely logistical point of view, we are very dubious about the possibility of sending the voting material in time and in time to the voters, given the errors and delays in the distribution of electoral propaganda in the last elections. If this route still seems possible when there are 15 days between the two rounds, as in the case of the presidential election, this is not the case when there is only one week between the first and the second round. Moreover, as long as voting under influence – family, clientelist, or even community – cannot be avoided, mail-order voting will not be secure – this is a fundamental issue. In fact, in addition to organizing the preparation and delivery of the folds, which is, in practice, complex and costly in view of our voting method, it is necessary to guarantee the security of the device: verification of the voter's identity, secure preservation of the folds and, finally, guarantee of independent control. Nevertheless, the issue is legitimate and must be addressed in the forthcoming presidential debate, because we must consider the use of new tools to attract French people, especially young people, to the polls. Mail-order voting could thus be experimented with in some voluntary communes, as actually proposed by the mission of MM. Travert and Breton, but such experimentation must be part of a broader reform of our institutions. [[Mr. Jean-Jacques Bridey applauds]] The LaREM Group will therefore vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u211	Mr Nicolas Dupont-Aignan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u212	A technical answer to a political problem: you may want to improve things, I am sure, but, in truth, this technical response is only a good misconception, as many of the previous speakers have said, for two fundamental reasons. First, and contrary to what you believe, mail-order voting, by mail or electronic means, will further undermine the confidence of our fellow citizens in democracy, for a very simple reason: this vote is manipulating.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u213	Like power of attorneys!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u214	I would point out that mail-order voting was abolished in 1975, precisely because of fraud. Of course, you are talking to us about technical improvements, and it is true that the organization of the time can now seem particularly cunning. Yet, despite the technical improvements, the risk of fraud remains enormous – I have experienced it in some political parties that I will not mention – since, when voting is electronic, there can be no physical verification. Introducing electronic voting would end up killing the confidence of our fellow citizens in the institutions, since everyone knows that it can be tampered with. The example of the United States should encourage us not to repeat the disaster that was their last election, regardless of the judgement that can be made on both candidates. With this bill, you take a considerable risk. Fortunately, the Government does not want it: it is salutary. Indeed, it is tantamount to removing the very essence of the vote, which is its personal character. For, yes, the isolation is a republican conquest, it is a republican liturgy, it is the moment when everyone is alone facing himself and voting for the destiny of the nation. The mail-order vote, the electronic vote, is the communal vote:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u215	He already exists!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u216	... there will be the husband, there will be the imam, there will be the buddies, there will be the community. This will be the end of the personal vote and the secrecy of the vote. It will take our fellow citizens a little further away from democracy and strengthen the rampant communalism in our country. The second reason why the bill is counterproductive is that it does not address the root cause of abstention.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u217	We spent the day proposing solutions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u218	[[Protests on the benches of the Dem group]] What is this root cause? It is that many of our fellow citizens feel that voting is useless. Why is it useless? Firstly, because we have transferred most of our powers to European judges and commissioners who are not accountable to anyone. The power has been transferred to Brussels and the National Assembly, as well as the President of the Republic, contrary to what his gestures suggest, are only subject to decisions taken elsewhere. Power is in Berlin, power is in Washington, power is in Beijing; France is stunned, subject to these spheres of influence. That is the reality. Then, when there is a vote, most political parties trample on him, as was the case in the no in the referendum in 2005.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u219	Come on...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u220	A few months later, the Congress – both the left and the right – approved by a large majority the Treaty of Lisbon, which was the perfect copy of the draft constitutional law that the French had refused. Since 2005, not a referendum! What surprises us, then, that the French no longer believe in French democracy? I would add that the shared initiative referendum on Orly Airport has collected more than 1 million signatures out of the 4 million required. While the President of the Republic had said that the question should be asked of the French if the number of supporters reached 1 million, of course, everything was done to ensure that the referendum of shared initiative did not work. In fact, if you want abstention to recede, we must respect our fellow citizens. And how can we respect them, if it is not by reconnecting with the spirit of the Fifth Republic – there is no need to even write a VIe – what is the referendum? General de Gaulle left in a referendum lost because he respected the French people. Do referendums: there was no referendum. Let's put in place the citizens' initiative referendum. I have proposed that we can launch a CRP from 500,000 signatures. Look at the vitality of Swiss democracy: how does it work? Why not institute a mid-term revocative referendum, as in some American states? In a word, if you want the French to return to the polls, respect them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u221	The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u222	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u223	The rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and the General Administration of the Republic has the floor to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u224	If I may, I will defend this amendment by providing some answers to the remarks made by my colleagues. The amendment is intended to restrict the scope of the bill to an experiment that would take place during the municipal elections of 2026 and would be regulated by a decree in the Council of State. Why the choice? Because it is the one that our colleagues have retained as part of the fact-finding mission launched by the Conference of Presidents, which delivered its report last December. This is the proposal of the Travert report. [[Members of the Dem Group applaud]] Behind the arguments put forward by each other, in particular by our colleague Dupont-Aignan, there is the fear that influences, particularly external ones – we have heard about the imam – may not affect the vote. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that, even if the subject is different, it is exactly the type of argument that was used a hundred years ago by the opponents of the right to vote for women, who considered that women could not vote otherwise than by following the instructions of their husbands or the parish priest. In May 1919, the debate was raging in the French Parliament, even though women already had the right to vote in a number of European countries, as reflected in the Official Journal which I have at your disposal and whose pages I have exhumed. On 8 May 1919, Alexandre Desrousseaux, who was a Member of Parliament for the Seine, defended, very painfully, a bill to grant women the right to vote in elections to municipal councils. He opposed a number of opponents of women's right to vote: "Yes, and when we show that the right to vote and the right to stand for election have been won by women almost at the same time in Scandinavian countries, in the United States, in Finland and, more recently, in our best allies as well as in our worst enemies, in England, Germany, Hungary, throughout Central Europe, we are told: Yes, but they are Protestant countries, where the woman is not under the leadership of the parish priest. » Meanwhile, on October 3, 1919, the Senator for Ain Alexandre Bérard presented a report to the Senate in which he wrote: "The woman, at this time, has not yet received sufficient civic education. It goes too many to the church to undergo the direction of the priest so that we do not fear that this direction extends out of the church to the voting room to decide the woman to throw in the ballot box a ballot contrary to the Republic. » Ladies and gentlemen, it took twenty-five years after these 1919 debates for women to finally have the right to vote in France. Of course, the stakes are not the same. But finally, are we going to hide behind centuries-old arguments to refuse modest experimentation? Will it still be necessary to wait for years before we too, in France, as other countries have done, can equip ourselves with this option, which is neither compulsory nor generalized, and which allows those who live far from the place where they are registered, and those who, for health reasons or because of their disability, have difficulty going to the polling station, to participate also in democratic decision-making? [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] What this amendment proposes is not the revolution, nor the clean table, but simply the opening of a possibility, within a very experimental framework, to determine whether or not the doubts we have – and are legitimate – are really well founded, or whether we can go a little further in the modernization and renovation of our voting instruments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u225	On Amendment No 9, I have a request for a public vote before the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Deputy Minister has the floor to give the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u226	The Government's opinion is unfavorable for the reasons set out above. However, I would like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for this historic reminder on the issue of women's right to vote. Indeed, just two generations ago, our grandmothers did not have the right to vote; Today, we are in an almost equal assembly. It is important to remember that it is precisely because women and men have fought in France so that women can vote that voting is not only a right, but also a civic duty, if only to honour the people who, generations before us, fought for it. To return to the debate that brings us together today, it is not a question of allowing or prohibiting a particular category of people to vote – fortunately. The question is what answers we can give to abstention: we are working on it. I think that two aspects of abstention should be taken into account. Firstly, the technical aspect of the lack of information: to remedy this, we are in the process of disseminating the website elections.interieur.gouv.fr and carrying out a work with the platforms so that young people have access to all the information relating to the elections, including the dates, on social networks, not to mention the mechanism maprocuration.fr, corollary of the deterritorialization of the proxy that you voted for. Secondly, there is the question of the enthusiasm for voting, because I believe that we will vote first and foremost for someone. On this point, candidates and political parties share the responsibility: the institutions cannot be the only ones to inspire confidence and to make people want to vote. There are two reasons why we are against experimentation. The first is that it is very uncomfortable to commit us, in 2022, to an experiment for elections that will take place in 2026. As a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, I am not in a position to assure you that we will have the material opportunity to guarantee the sincerity of the vote in 2026 through mail-order voting. The second reason is that, if I am not opposed to the debate on mail-order voting, or on electronic voting – on the contrary, I think that all these debates are healthy and must be held – – on the other hand, they must not remain purely theoretical. It is also necessary to determine how the Ministry of the Interior will guarantee, together with the municipalities and all the stakeholders, a genuine sincerity of the organisation of the vote. I believe that the return of experience will not be enough with a municipal election: the sample will be too small to draw conclusions on the possibility of generalising the experiment in the presidential election. I recall that before each presidential election, a law is passed, as we did together for the 2022 election. In the future, this law may be an opportunity to reopen this debate, after further work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u227	Mr Bruno Millienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u228	I am surprised by this debate: indeed, the Dem Group proposes not to carry out a revolution, but to test and experiment. If you find that the experiment is too small, Madam Deputy Minister, there is nothing to prevent you from extending it to make it meaningful. On the other hand, I totally reject the argument about the insinuating nature of the mail-order vote. In my view, it is much more sincere than proxy voting, in which we cannot verify much: each of us has in mind these proxy hunts carried out throughout France, especially in the EHPADs, but not only.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u229	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u230	I even think that mail-order voting is no more insinuating than balloting in the ballot box. Let us not tell us stories: in all the territories we have seen insinuous votes, with duplicates or voters who are no longer alive. However, elections are not always cancelled. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Either you consider that the vote in the ballot box is the only one that is truly sincere – or in any case 99.9% sincere – in which case you remove any other possibility of voting than that, or you authorize the mail-order vote, which, I assure you, will prove to you, if we really experience it, that it is far less insinuating than the search for power of attorney.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u231	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u232	I was, like many of you, strongly opposed to the mail-order vote. Nevertheless, I have listened, I have asked questions, and I now think that we must at least experiment with it. Of course, we all share this deep attachment to the republican rite of the isolation, before everyone slips a bulletin into the urn: if this rite worked, we would not have to debate it. Unfortunately, we all find it bitter that our democracy is suffering today. I hear that mail-order voting is only a tool to eliminate this famous abstention. Why don't you experiment with it? I have a simple anecdote: last week we were discussing with mayors, deputies and citizens the difficulties our democracy is currently facing. Very naturally, and while I had not told them about our proposal, the problem of mail-order voting came to the table and one of them asked me: "Why don't you experiment with it? » [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] Madam Deputy Minister, you indicate that you are not in a position to guarantee this experiment. But we can afford it if we really want to bring our fellow citizens back to the polls! Finally, you are announcing an additional cost of €135 million per vote. I'm sorry, democracy has no price!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u233	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u234	Mr. Millienne, Mrs. Brocard, I found your interventions interesting. Thank you for allowing such a debate, not so much on this tool as on the functioning of democracy. In my view, today we see not the malfunctioning of voting operations in our country, but the atrophy of our democratic life. We won't answer it with a tool, a voting method. On the other hand, the French have confidence in the organisation of our country's voting operations, contrary to what is observed in other democracies such as the United States, for example, where half of the citizens think that the presidential election has been stolen as a result of the mail-order vote. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Rather, the real dysfunction of our democracy takes place on a daily basis. It is linked to the lack of readability of the institutional millefeuille, which we cannot remedy; the crossing of competences between the institutions; the imbalance of powers, characterized by the hyper-presidentialization of the regime. The problem is also that of the representativeness and bad association of our citizens with the construction of public policies. These are the elements on which we must have the courage to work to reform our regime in depth. Let us not think that it is simply by adding tools after the election campaigns that we will respond to the democratic crisis that our country has been going through for years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u235	We never said that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u236	Since we are sufficiently well informed, I will only give the floor to Mr Bruno Fuchs and the rapporteur, before putting the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u237	Mr Gouffier-Cha, if half of the American voters express their distrust, it is because of a problem of communication and confidence, which has nothing to do with the tool of mail-order voting, which has not given rise to any problems. Since this is a matter of revitalizing democratic life, I will share with you a very recent experience. In the last departmental elections, I was elected to the most precarious canton of Mulhouse. Not to mention the many young people and precarious people who do not even know where the polling stations are – which shows that we must first carry out educational work – how can we get to vote for those of our fellow citizens who are not available on election day, or who do not want to go to the polling stations? The only solution for them is to use a power of attorney. However, in these elections, I saw only four, because voters, young or not, do not want to use this procedure, especially if it involves going to a police station. The tools that we propose reject a part of the population, the very one that we want to integrate into the public debate. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Gilles Le Gendre also applauds]] The proposed measure is not intended to solve all the problems, but would nevertheless provide a strong, massive solution, which would greatly increase democratic vitality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u238	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u239	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u240	[["No! » on the benches of the Dem group]] [[Applause on a few benches of the Dem group]] Of course, this is not a definitive solution to abstention! In this area, some of the levers mentioned today would be very powerful – I am thinking in particular of proportionality, parity, provisions to give more meaning to individual votes or to the creation of territorial councillors. But when a question is complicated and calls for ambitious answers, should we ban ourselves from moving forward? Should we refrain from considering the conclusions of an information mission of the Conference of Presidents? There isn't one every day! The proposals made by the Commission were numerous. Rather than taking them all back, we chose one, and modest. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Gilles Le Gendre also applauds]] Parliament has taken up the matter, struck by the fact that it is at the level of abstention: it has made proposals in a report and we are moving forward with one.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u241	It's the fight against obscurantism!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u242	It is neither a whim nor an obsession of MODEM. Those who support the principle of experimenting with new voting methods may vote for this amendment. They can be reassured, as can the Ministry of the Interior, because the proposed scheme is very well regulated by a decree. I do not know if you have already passed an amendment providing for a decree: this makes it possible to frame things; I lived it, I remember. Again, it is not a question, with this experiment, of overthrowing the table! [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Gilles Le Gendre also applauds]] If you value the fact-finding missions of the Conference of Presidents, if you think that our colleagues who have participated in them have merit and that their work is of good quality, adopt one of their proposals by way of amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u243	I put to the vote Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u244	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 100 Absolute majority 51 For adoption 45 Against 55
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u245	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u246	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Basically, I find this debate rather sad. We are hesitant about experimenting with mail-order voting, after excluding electronic voting. How is it that we cannot adopt such a system, which is in force everywhere else? In Germany, in particular, Angela Merkel says that this measure has increased the turnout in the elections by ten points! The great courage of the parliamentarians gathered today will be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u247	Cecile, join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u248	This amendment concerns only postal mail voting. Indeed, it is clear to us that the electronic way is not current – society is not digitized enough to initiate such a reflection. Postal correspondence, on the other hand, is the equivalent of a proxy: it would make people's lives easier. We are here for this and not to prescribe them where they have to go! They must be given the freedom of choice. Let's stop being ridiculous! As a guarantee, the purpose of this amendment is to clarify, on the one hand, that "the sending of the mail-order vote under closed cover does not deprive the elector of his or her right to vote in the ballot box. If he votes in the ballot box on polling day, his mail-order vote shall be cancelled." on the other hand, "in the event of the death or deprivation of the civic rights of the elector having exercised his or her right to vote by mail, the vote shall be automatically cancelled"; Finally, "the expenditure resulting from the organisation of mail-order voting under closed cover [...] is borne by the State".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u249	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u250	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u251	[["Oh yes! » on several benches of the Dem group]] Since the committee has delivered an unfavourable opinion, it is in my personal capacity that I will give an opinion in favour of this amendment, which sets out the arrangements for the organisation of the mail-order vote. There is a recognition of both Mrs Untermaier's democratic spirit and her work on this subject, since she is the author of a bill to introduce mail-order voting, among other contributions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u252	[[Smile]] We're asking for video arbitration!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u253	You would not question the presidency, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u254	Since all the articles had been deleted or rejected, there was no reason to call the amendment on the title and the bill as a whole was itself rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u255	The next item is the proposal for a law on the progressive prohibition of nitrated additives in meat products (No 4830, 4967). The Conference of Presidents decided that this text would be examined in its entirety in accordance with the legislation procedure in committee. In accordance with Rule 107(3) of the Rules of Procedure, we will hear statements by the committee rapporteur and the Government, and then explanations of vote by the groups. We shall then proceed directly to the vote on the whole text adopted by the committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u256	Mr Richard Ramos, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u257	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] I will first of all have a thought for the one who accompanied me in this fight against nitrite salt, Professor Axel Kahn who, until the last day of his life – he died in joy – asked me to be his soul in the Chamber. Axel, we're thinking about you. I would like to recall that this text was adopted in committee unanimously by political parties; It is therefore co-built, collegiate. I would like to thank Michèle Crouzet and Barbara Bessot Ballot, great advocates of French gastronomy and co-rapporteurs, with me, of the information mission on nitrite salts in the agri-food industry, which led to this bill. I also thank Cédric Villani, who accompanied on behalf of the National Assembly the scientific approach, Sébastien Jumel, who helped us greatly to defend this project in hearing and in committee, Fabien Roussel, candidate for the presidential election which puts on the table the camembert, cheese and French gastronomy, Dominique Potier for his concern, in committee, of the balance between science and conscience, Thierry Benoit, a staunch defender of the French peasantry, for France produces the best pigs in the world, and Philippe Vigier, Member of Parliament for Eure-et-Loir, but originally from the Haute-Loire where I have been killing my pig and doing my meat for thirty years. I also thank the administrators, who have brought us so much throughout this work. Finally, I thank my colleagues in the Dem Group who, despite some pressure, have given me their unwavering support. The history of food is the history of humanity. At the time of the caves, the man was a nomadic picker; He sedentated himself when he invented agriculture. Food is everywhere. Each religion has rites that concern it; The revolutionaries took pictures of biblical scenes, replacing them with paintings of republican banquets. So the table is part of everyone's story. How did the dishes that make up French gastronomy appear? The French table is the product of a multi-year history, during which, from generation to generation, from peasant to peasant, from charcutier to charcutier, a heritage of products, tricks and techniques was formed. Look at the cheeses: fresh milk gets damaged in a few days, but if you turn it into cheese, you have a product that is preserved, that you can exchange, that allows you to eat, even when you are far from the herds. The men of the past have created the mountain apple, so dear to Mignola, in order to have a way to conserve milk, a delicious source of protein and calcium. In the same way, the charcuterie is fresh meat that was processed to make it consumable later. To preserve the meaty matter, our distant ancestors have developed this awesome process, which has transformed a pig's leg into ham. My grandmother said, "It's the medium of winter! » While fresh pork meat is damaged at full speed, the meat turned into cold meat preserves itself thanks to a magical ingredient: salt. I'm not talking about nitrite salt or saltpeter. For millennia, charcuterie was manufactured using pork meat and simple salt. This is always the case in some villages in Corsica, so dear to Messrs. Pupponi, Acquaviva and Mattei; at the best manufacturers of ham in Bayonne; at the authentic charcuterie manufacturers in our regions of Auvergne and Alsace. Gastronomy, when well founded, strong on its foundations, is also the art and means of successful integration: it is not displeased by some, pizza and couscous are the two favourite dishes of the French. Then came the globalized revolution of triumphant chemistry. Audacious chemists have developed techniques to simplify the processing of meat, to speed it up, to improve the visual appearance of products, to standardize processes. Nitrate additives have been developed. The sellers of chemical additives appeared, the junk food engaged on an infernal slope. Let us not be mistaken: the return to vintage is the mark of an era that is looking for itself; Seeing no meaning in front of it, Western civilization takes refuge in a sublimated past. Yet, I tell you, the future is in good nutrition, provided we have the courage to define our real needs and to renew the relationship that unites the consumer with the peasant who produces. The purpose of this bill is to fill the gulf that large-scale distribution has dug between the buyer and the producer. When nitrated additives entered use, their deadly effects were unknown. They were allowed because they allowed for the production, faster and easier, of charcuterie of attractive appearance. They were allowed because other countries had allowed them, and because we did not want to subject our productions to requirements that would have diminished our competitiveness. In other words, nitrate additives were allowed because, in good faith, they were believed to be harmless. Nitrite salt was not allowed in France until 1964. At the time, no one knew that one would ever discover only by reacting with the fleshy matter, it gave rise to a nitrosus compound that was dangerous to health. What should be done when scientists find out after the fact that a substance that has been authorised and passed into use has harmful effects, which had not been taken into account at the time of authorisation? That's the whole drama of the drowned charcuterie. We now know that nitrite charcuteries are carcinogens, above all thanks to the International Cancer Research Centre, the IARC. It was created in Lyon, at the initiative of General de Gaulle, in the 1960s: it is now the agency specializing in cancer of the World Health Organization (WHO). Its objective is to find the agents that cause cancer, so as not to be content with treating it once it has appeared. The IARC has therefore identified the carcinogenic effect of nitrosated compounds, and it has classified the charcuterie into the group of proven carcinogens – I say well: proven. Instead of embracing the new scientific knowledge, some industrialists took out the fangs and armoured themselves in denial, head in nitrite salt, nose in accounts and morals in the cosmos. The nitrite charcuterie lobby would like to make it appear that the results of the IARC are incorrect. According to their spokespersons, the IARC was wrong, quite simply! Sometimes the argument is more subtle, but just as lie: the results obtained by the WHO agency concern only foreigners, not France. According to them, American nitrated ham kills, but the French, by miracle, would be harmless! To the results of the IARC experts, some industrialists would like us to prefer the results of a few rare scientists, who are very well paid. We see some French researchers, however paid with public funds, signing in parallel contracts for collaboration with the nitrite meat industry. We can do this, but we have to declare it. For a few million euros, these scientists seem to be good in all respects, but to the suspicious ethics, do it without saying. But it is too late to make false knowledge. To the cheaters, I solemnly say: We look at you. This text sets out the milestones for a path of removal of nitrate additives. Beyond that, it recognizes the fundamental requirement to protect the poorest. To those who thought they could lie to the members of the information mission and to those of the commission, I say that we will be vigilant and open our eyes. Parliament is here to protect the French, especially the poorest: we will ask you to be held accountable. We are the representative of the French people, we have a duty to be the watchdog of their good health. This bill is historic: it marks the rendezvous of the legislator with scientific progress and with the demands expressed by society. The most retrograde of the nitrite meat manufacturers suggest that we do nothing, wait, wait, wait, wait, or act, but then slow down, preserving their interest. For them, every month that passes brings a financial respite. We cannot let the poor French face such a catastrophe. If the lobbyists and their relays were able to influence the expertise, it would be our responsibility to denounce it. Politics must always prevail over economics. We'll denounce copling, slippering. How can we tolerate that, after working in the administration, a high-ranking official goes to fill his pockets, raising his caretaker and his networks in favor of the nitrite meat lobby? These small arrangements with ethics gangrepresent the confidence of citizens in their institutions. They are the cancer of democracy. If the law protects less quickly than citizens' businesses, such as Yuka, or associations, such as the League against Cancer, citizens will turn away from the ballot box and democracy, to the benefit of the jungle of social networks, where the willingness to think populist and manipulative is exercised. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] [[Same movements]] This humanist bill, defended by the Democratic Movement, provides an effective remedy against junk food, which particularly affects the poorest. With the entire national representation, we will ensure that there are no two foods in France – one for the rich and the bobos, who would have the right to eat without risking death, and one for the poor, with whom we would make money. I ask you to vote for this text in tribute to the poorest people who also have the right to eat well.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u258	On the proposal for a law, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats have asked for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The next speaker is the Minister responsible for relations with Parliament and citizen participation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u259	First of all, I ask you to excuse the Minister of Agriculture and Food, Julien Denormandie, who would have wished to be with us. Due to the acceleration of the work within the framework of the niche of the Dem group, he is still on the move alongside our breeders, in Aurillac, for the congress of the National Bovine Federation. You have essentially worked with him on this text; I humbly make his spokesman. Last week, the Committee on Economic Affairs met to discuss the bill defended by Richard Ramos and several of his colleagues in the presidential majority. I thank the rapporteur for his work, as well as for having conducted this long fight for several years, that is, since he arrived in the National Assembly. This bill, as adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is important, firstly, because it concerns our food – more precisely, our nutrition. The nutrition approach is essential in public policies. As Hippocrates said, diet is the first medication.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u260	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u261	Secondly, it is important because it is based on the scientific method, which I will always say must always guide us. That is my case, and that of the Government. As you know, I approach all subjects with great pragmatism and I am proud to introduce myself to you with a text that is no exception. In the case of nitrated additives, there is a lot of expertise. The maximum quantities have been defined over the years by the European Commission on the basis of scientific work, in particular by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). His latest opinion on the subject, published in 2017, did not question these maxima. However, in a new study published in 2018, IARC hypothesized that the use of these nitrate compounds in meat could lead to the formation of colorectal cancers under certain conditions. The text avoids us falling into a scientific controversy. To those who are for immediate prohibition, and to those who are against, it allows us to answer that we do not rush anything, but that we do not exclude anything: we move forward. We rely on science through the National Food, Environment and Labour Safety Agency (ANSES), whose opinion we will apply. Indeed, this text makes the choice of a method and sets out a path to follow. Julien Denormandie said this during the panel review: following the findings of the IARC study, the Minister of Solidarity and Health and referred him to ANSES, from June 2020, in order to decide on four clear questions, the answer of which is likely to inform the public decision. In terms of risks, it is necessary to define the situations in which a reduction in the levels of nitrites and nitrates present in foodstuffs would significantly increase the risks associated with the proliferation of pathogenic bacteria. Secondly, action levers must be identified to reduce the overall exposure of consumers, by ingestion, to nitrites and nitrates, regardless of their origin. It is also necessary to assess whether new scientific knowledge is likely to remove uncertainties about the mechanisms of transformation of nitrates and nitrites in the body and in food, or to better characterize the relationship between human carcinogenesis and the intake of heminic iron associated with nitrites, through consumption of meat products. The answers to these questions seem to me to be able to provide the necessary lighting. It is true that we would be more serene if this opinion had already been delivered. It must be noted that this could not be possible: ANSES is a very mobilized agency, there are few experts and there is a great deal of demand. This study is not a particular case: the answers to the requests of our fellow citizens are based on an ever greater scientific light, which leads to an ever greater demand from ANSES, which announced that its opinion would appear before the end of the first half of 2022. We have only one wish, which we share with the author of the text: to obtain it as soon as possible. In this context, this bill, adopted unanimously in committee, will create transparency vis-à-vis Parliament through the presentation of a report that will draw the conclusions of the ANSES report. It will lay down a framework, as it provides for provisions on the use and marketing, or even prohibition, of products containing nitrated additives. The Government will bring it into force as soon as it has the opinion of ANSES. It will make the necessary decisions, dear to Richard Ramos, on labelling. Finally, for the sake of combating nutritional inequalities – this is very important – it will make it clear that it is marketing and not production. I repeat: if the opinion of ANSES shows that we need to review the marketing of foods with nitrated additives in the cold meat, we will not hesitate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u262	It's better if the bill is salted!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u263	This one, you've been preparing it for a long time, Congressman! We will mobilize all the tools at our disposal at the regulatory level to take the necessary action, as we have been able to do with additive E171, with dimethoate used to treat imported cherries, and in many other cases. In this connection, I would point out that industry professionals are already very committed to meeting consumer demand by developing more and more products without added nitrites, especially in hams. All you have to do is go to the shops to see it. We will also take care to accompany the industry, so that no company is left at the edge of the road and that our products, which are the pride of our terroirs, continue to exist. I come to my last point: this text is important because it also helps to defend our artisans, our traders and our gastronomy. In no way does he want to stigmatize this sector and the 450 French charcuterie recipes. I know the commitment of parliamentarians, first and foremost Richard Ramos, on this subject. Many of you have welcomed the work of the charcutiers, producers, processors, for the quality of their production and for their commitment to transitions. More generally, we must have a nutritional ambition for our country. This objective brings us all together: it has guided us towards this consensus, around this text. One of the tragedies of society is that the nutritional value is gradually eroded. This subject should not be dealt with solely from the point of view of production, but should also be dealt with under the heading of marketing. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Without such an approach, we risk seeing a two-speed diet, hence nutritional inequalities. That is why we invite you to vote in favour of this text. Moreover, as everyone knows, the quality of our food is our brand, one that, I am convinced, allows us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and to maintain a human-sized agriculture, desired by our fellow citizens, as well as a quality agri-food industry. I welcome the unanimity on this text in committee, which shows that Parliament has moved forward with reason and pragmatism and in unity at the service of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u264	Even for ham, there are no Republicans!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u265	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u266	We, my colleagues from the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group and myself, are pleased to conclude this day of parliamentary niche by examining this text. Our assembly is seized of a crucial and dear subject in the eyes of the French: access to better food for all. Since we are in the process of legislation in committee, the bill can no longer be amended. We thus express our views on the balance that has been struck between the deputies and the Government. In committee, we have had calm debates and the adopted text has been almost unanimous. The Government's proposals, under-amended by our group and by the rapporteur, reached consensus: the subject is of such importance that it is capable of overcoming partisan divisions. It is the health of the French, in this case our ability to protect them from a cancer risk due to the consumption of certain charcuteries. This link can be explained by the addition of nitrated additives: these chemical preservatives speed up and simplify the manufacture, as well as extend their shelf life, in order to promote their marketing, in particular thanks to the pink colour they bring to the ham. Naturally, it is on a scientific approach that we support our work. It is the same method that, last year, allowed us to recognize the dangerous effects of titanium dioxide as a food additive and to ban it from our diet. Again, we call on the public authorities to cooperate with ANSES. Our response must be as enlightened as possible. Our group wishes to reaffirm its confidence in this agency, even though it regrets the delay in the publication of the report on the risks associated with nitrites and nitrates, originally scheduled for September 2021, and now postponed to June 2022. Recall that since 2015, the International Cancer Research Centre has classified the consumption of processed meats as carcinogenic to humans, and the consumption of red meats as probably carcinogenic. In February 2020, the rapporteur Richard Ramos, our colleague Barbara Bessot Ballot and I presented an information report on the subject. After more than 40 hearings, we were able to see not only the commitment of civil society on the subject, but also the investment of industrialists in order to initiate this transition. This work has, until today, been carried out with will, patience and passion by Richard Ramos, to whom the whole of my group pays tribute. Many producers, industrialists and artisans, have already changed their way of manufacturing, without the use of nitrate additives. The adaptation of production methods to "nitrite-free" is therefore technically possible. On the other hand, our group is aware of the heavy investments that such a change requires. It must not be done at the expense of the survival of the smallest structures, which it is essential to accompany. With this text, we want to respond to and even encourage the growing expectations of the French for a healthy diet. We want to respond to the need for information that they are increasingly asserting: knowing what is on their plate and choosing what they eat. Finally, we demand that these advances should not be made at the expense of the most modest, with a two-speed diet: healthy food for the better, another more risky for the less privileged. Our proposed legislation thus sets a path to decrease the maximum dose of nitrate additives. Depending on the conclusions of ANSES expected in June, it will certainly be necessary to establish a list of products subject to a strict ban. Beyond the limitation or prohibition by law, the interest of this text is to promote the emergence of the "consumer's actor", through the implementation of specific labelling and a message associated with advertisements. These are essential steps. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, as I did in committee, I welcome the Government's ability to listen and the good dialogue we have had together. The Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, particularly committed to this text, will support it unanimously and enthusiastically. Congratulations again to the rapporteur for his great tenacity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u267	Mrs Cécile Untermaier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u268	In 2015, the World Health Organization's IARC classified charcuterie as a proven human carcinogen based on evidence of colorectal cancer. With alcohol, charcuterie has thus become the only food consumed in France, which is the subject of such a classification. For this reason, the draft law was intended, in its original version, to prohibit nitrated additives in charcuterie products, as well as to establish a fund to finance the transition of charcutiers-traiteurs and butchers-carcutiers to the production of charcuterie without nitrated additives. In my personal capacity, the original version of the bill was quite appropriate for me. However, this version of the text anticipates the publication of an important ANSES opinion, scheduled for June next, on the risks associated with the consumption of nitrated additives. The Socialist and Related Group reaffirms its commitment to protecting consumer health: for this, we must build on the work of the health and food safety organizations – I mean ANSES. Parliament must take these bodies into account, set clear objectives and provide them with sufficient resources to enable them to carry out effective work. However, as parliamentarians, we cannot anticipate scientific advice without weakening our decisions. That is why the compromise reached during the examination in committee – the text that we are considering – suits us. The text now provides for a mechanism allowing, within one year, after obtaining the opinion of ANSES, to set a path to decrease the maximum dose of nitrate additives and to prohibit the marketing of certain products. If the opinion of ANSES were alarming, we would have a legislative vehicle to agree to increase the bans. We regret, however, the removal, in committee, of Article 7, which provided for the payment of State aid to accompany the transition to the production of carcuterie without nitrated additives by the artisans carcutiers-traiteurs and butchers-carcutiers – which we all appreciate for the quality of their commercial services in our territories. According to the initial wording of rapporteur Richard Ramos – widely praised – this aid should be given priority to micro-enterprises and SMEs. This does not seem to us justified: the professionals in the sector have committed themselves to renewing their practices and we must accompany them. Despite this regret, the text is a definite step forward, since it finally makes it possible to recognise that nitrated additives are a real public health issue. Some would have liked to go further, faster, as is often the case with the texts we are discussing. In general, I share this desire. This is only a first step and we hope that it will be fully achieved. As you said, rapporteur, we must also be vigilant. That is the point of this bill: to ensure that it does not remain a dead letter and that it can be effectively implemented on the ground, through the entire production and processing of meat and meat products. Finally, on behalf of my group, in the most sincere way, I would like to pay tribute to the work of your group – particularly Richard Ramos – on the subject: its commitment has made it possible to achieve...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u269	Join us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u270	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] ... to the consideration of this text – of course, compromise, like all the texts we are considering – which calls for our vigilance, but which is a step towards the health of the consumer
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u271	Mr Philippe Huppé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u272	A man takes a long time to train and there are several channels for this. Then, one day, he was elected a Member of Parliament and had a say. One of the main scandals is food. In this sense, I agree with Mr Ramos, who has said everything on the subject: he is right to want a healthy, sustainable diet that protects our citizens. For me, who is Tarnais, so close to the ham, this one was important: it's a bit my madeleine de Proust! When I go to Mazamet, La Salvetat, in my constituency, I find ham, pig's ears, Toulouse sausage – and not Morteau: there is everything we can create. Above all, this makes it possible to train because, if eating is essential, it is necessary above all to discuss and learn from the other: to create a link between citizens, to learn from the 6500 artisans charcutiers in France: it is very important. When I go to my charcutier in Hérepian, to buy crusted pie, I ask him how he does it, why he was the world champion of crusted pie: he explains to me what he puts in it, making me understand that all the products are healthy and that I will enjoy it. Then I get to the table, explaining to my guests why this crusted pâté is the best. I thus create a link, which is very important. In this respect, I recognize that our colleague Ramos' report allows us to address these issues: we will never be happy enough. [[Smile]] After speaking, eating and training as a citizen – food also takes part in the actions of citizens – something else can be thought of. If a human bond has just been created, this dimension is not sufficient, for one cannot remain in an irrational approach. For more rationality, we will therefore turn to the experts, who have the ability to indicate whether or not a particular product or additive is dangerous, and to what extent. Because, I'm sorry to remind you, we're all mortal. We must accept the fact that food cannot, in addition, be a medicine that will allow us to live forever, beautiful, young and intelligent – I have gone wrong. Experts must therefore be called upon. As we have said unanimously in the Committee on Economic Affairs, therefore, we are waiting for ANSES to give back its report, which it will soon do. From then on, we will be able to take back the language and decide together what we can do. This will reassure both the charcutier professionals and the legislators that we are, because we will have an objective and positive opinion that will guide us. But let us not forget that he must simply guide us. Because if we need technology, we also need us, politicians who have to take their responsibilities. We must first wait for the expert's opinion, which will inform us, and then we must react according to the seriousness of the facts analysed. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Finally, minister delegate, I hope that never a charcutier will look at me and say to me, as Dante came into the third circle – that of greed, you have understood it well: "O Ciacco, your distress brings me to the eyes of the tears of sadness. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u273	He's good, that Huppé!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u274	Mrs Stéphanie Kerbarh has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u275	I would like to pay tribute to the work of our colleague Richard Ramos. At a time when fishing was still a very productive activity, Norman sailors left for many weeks from Fécamp to Newfoundland: the concern for food conservation was very important. Salt was then the most widely used way to store food. Nitrated additives are suspected to play a role in the development of colorectal cancer, the third most common type of cancer in France, all sexes. During a hearing by the information mission on nitrite salts in the agri-food industry, Agriculture and Food Minister Julien Denormandie indicated that ANSES had to deliver an opinion in April 2021 and that it would position itself on the basis of its conclusions. To date, they have not been published. Once the ANSES report has been issued, the Libertés et Territoires Group will ensure that the Government's decisions are commensurate with the health challenge. Over the past three years, some French industrial producers, such as Hertha, Fleury Michon, Broceliande, Madrange, Les Salesons Roches Blanches and the Saveurs de Normandie label, local brands that I would like to greet, and the distributor brands – I forget about them – have developed nitrite-free products on the market. For all these reasons, the Liberties and Territories Group will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u276	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u277	Nitric salts present in the charcuterie are classified as probable carcinogens, including colon and stomach cancer. The number of victims of these additives is estimated at several thousand per year. Yet they are completely legal. Why? I'm giving you a little lobbying class to figure out how to let people die to protect financial interests. At the forefront, I present the FICT, the Fédération française des industriels charcutiers caterers. It is they who have the most to lose if we ban nitrite salts, for the simple reason that they allow them to save time and thus money in the drying of the charcuteries. They call themselves "artisans" in the newspapers: it sounds good, you want to be nice to them. They will claim that nitrites are indispensable to save their profession. However, the reality is that the majority of large industrialists know how to dispense with these nitrite salts. It'll just cost them a little bit more. But what are some cancers when you can make a few million euros? Just behind the FICT, we find the ARPP, the Autorité de régulation professionnelle de la advertisme, a little more discreet but just as formidable. This small club, which is supposed to regulate commercials, is in fact a self-employed club composed of lobbyists, who are judges and parties and decide to let everything go on our screens, including the whole junk food ad, even if it causes chronic diseases. No problem, there's money to take. I'll keep going around the table. Public institutions are not spared. The National Agency for the Safety of Food, Environment and Labour was asked whether nitrites should be banned. But torpedoed from the inside, the scientific expertise of this agency is completely biased, without it shaking its director, Mr. Genet. The researchers in the expert group have even resigned not to be associated with this masquerade. But then, why is this science agency being diverted from the role it should have, will you tell me? Well, because she's a high place for slippers. Like Ms. Eklou-Kalonji, she spent a few years as director of a service before taking over the regulatory affairs of ANIA, the National Association of Food Industries. Collusion, are you telling me? Wait, I got better. [[Protests on the benches of the Dem group]] [[Long exclamations on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] The slippering also works among the macronist MPs. Your colleague, MP Nogal, who came from Orangina's home, seeing the end of his term close, will take the lead of ANIA. Sleep quietly, dear citizens, all these good people are watching over you. Of course, all of this would not work without Macronie, a real pass-flat for the lobbies. The industrialists I have just mentioned all have their towel round at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. And as the army of zombie macroist deputies vote to please its minister or not to frustrate its future employer, belonging, to the choice, to an agency or to a federation of industrialists, it does not hesitate to vote in full conscience against the health of the French. [[Protests on the benches of the Dem group]] So this is how we end up with a text, originally designed to protect the health of the French, which, after being planed by all the people I have just quoted, ends up being completely emptied of its content and scope. Three years ago, I already described this as an association of criminals: I maintain this observation. I am sincerely sorry for my colleague Richard Ramos, whose work and struggle I welcome, but the final text before us is far from meeting the public health challenge that these nitrite salts raise. Thus, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I will not vote...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u278	You never vote anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u279	[[Same movements]] ...this text, which is finally 100% signed by the hand of a government completely subdued to the lobbies against which I am fighting. Let them be warned, the month of April arrives quickly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u280	Revolutionary immobilism!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u281	The French thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u282	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u283	The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left has already had the opportunity to stress this, but I repeat: from the beginning, we welcome the initiative represented by this bill and – why not say so? – the stubbornness of its rapporteur, Richard Ramos. At this stage, however, we regret that this text has been thoroughly rewritten in committee, although we understand the concern expressed by the Minister to deal with the subject with a method pending the still pending opinion of the National Agency for Food, Environment and Labour Health Security. In its original version, the text provided for the prohibition of nitrated additives in salt products by 2023 and in all other charcuterie products by 2025. He was planning a transitional period to reduce the dose of additives. Finally, it provided for a fund – and this is important – to enable artisans and butchers to finance the use of suitable manufacturing processes and the adaptation of their production tool, in order to allow the production of a meat without nitrated additives. The device seemed quite proportionate to us. If we do not yet have the opinion of ANSES, we are not leaving anything. The bill is based on the report of a fact-finding mission, which everyone recognizes is serious about. Today, there is little doubt that the presence of nitrites in meat and charcuterie is largely responsible for the increased risk of developing cancer. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the memory of the late Axel Kahn, former president of the League against Cancer, who was a great defender of the cause that we are dealing with today – our rapporteur reminded him. Of the 17 publications available to us, assessing the specific effect of nitrite salts, eleven concluded that nitrite charcuteries were more carcinogenic than charcuteries that did not undergo nitrate treatments. Given the state of our knowledge of the subject, it is therefore not shocking to have the precautionary principle applied, especially since the risks of botulism are now eliminated and there are alternatives to the production of nitrite meats. Many producers, industrialists and artisans already produce high-quality charcuterie, without the use of nitrated additives. However, these productions unfortunately remain reserved for a limited clientele. So the challenge is for us to prevent the development of a two-speed diet, in order to avoid that, in a cynical commercial logic, the product lines without nitrites on the one hand, intended to satisfy a category of demanding consumers, aware of health issues and above all with strong purchasing power, and, on the other hand, products of lower health quality intended for modest families. The right to be beautiful and good – Fabien Roussel often reminds us – must be guaranteed in our society: this bill must also guarantee it. If we regret that the version of the text originally proposed by our colleagues could not be adopted, we sincerely welcome the fact that agreement has been reached. The text of the agreement entrusts the Government with the task of changing the normative environment through regulation. One year after its promulgation, and based on the advice of ANSES, a decree will establish a downward trajectory of the maximum dose of nitrated additives, taking into account the identified risks to human health. The Order may also establish a list and timetable for prohibiting the marketing of products incorporating these additives. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group]] Even if the ambition is less, this bill suits us. However, we regret that the crucial question of the introduction of the technical and financial support mechanism for our artisans is referred to a hypothetical report – this provision has also been removed. In any event, you may be aware that we will remain particularly vigilant on this point as well as on the content and ambition of the decrees that the Government is committed to taking. But in the meantime, of course, we will vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u284	We'd like to hear the opinion of the Republicans on ham!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u285	They're not interested in feeding the poor!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u286	Mrs Célia de Lavergne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u287	First of all, I want to highlight and salute the consistency and determination, sometimes stubbornness, but always with a lot of style, of our colleague Richard Ramos. Thank you for your ongoing commitment to healthy and sustainable food, and thank you for defending with talent and conviction the values of French gastronomy, beyond our beautiful institution. This is an important subject which we have dealt with in the Committee on Economic Affairs with a method, which has enabled us to find a satisfactory way forward. This method is not that of caricature or personal attacks, as we have just heard from the group La France insoumé, caricature and attacks, which often hide the emptiness of the positions of certain political groups.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u288	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u289	This method is science. In June 2020, the Minister of Solidarity and Health and the Minister of Agriculture and Food referred the case to ANSES, an independent administrative authority of very high scientific level, for an assessment of the effects of nitrites. As we discuss this bill, this report is not yet issued. We regret it, but it does not justify a change of method. This notice is announced for the month of June 2022. We will be very vigilant when it is published. We know that, for several years now, the charcutier industry has been encouraging companies to reduce the use of nitrites. Thus, today, several brands market zero nitrite meat products, produced from vegetable extract broth, that meet the naturality requirements of our consumers. Of course, Members of the La République Group are in agreement with the public health objective pursued by our colleague Ramos. We have never played with the health of the French and we will never do so. However, we consider that applying the provisions of this bill before receiving the ANSES conclusions would not be satisfactory. That is why, in committee, we voted for the amendments tabled by the Government. I would like to pay tribute to the quality of dialogue and listening by Minister Julien Denormandie, who led to a unanimous vote in the committee. These amendments put science at the heart of the debate while ensuring that the right decision is taken, if necessary. If the Agency's conclusions established a proven risk to human health, the amendments we voted for would make it possible to take strong decisions on the products concerned. In addition, I would point out that an amendment adopted by the majority as a whole provides for the submission to Parliament, within six months, of a report from the Government drawing the conclusions of the opinion of ANSES on the health risks associated with the ingestion of nitrated additives in the charcuterie. If its conclusions confirm the danger, the report will present to the national representative the accompanying arrangements put in place to preserve the economic activity and the competitiveness of the production and processing of meat while preserving the health of the French, since it is also foreseen that a decree will then fix a path to decrease the maximum dose of nitrated additives in the products and provide for a timetable for prohibiting their marketing. Following the necessary amendments, the Republic Group will vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u290	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u291	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group and on the benches of the Dem group]] Ladies and gentlemen, our agriculture and our agri-food industry are among the most qualitative sectors in the world. Together, we must guarantee to the consumer the paths that lead to confidence. The recognition of the scientific fact, the determination to defend the food sovereignty of our country and the quadruple performance, economic, social, environmental and health, of our agriculture are the paths of progress that we must take in order to meet the objectives of a food that is safe, healthy and sustainable, for which the majority have been working since the beginning of the quinquennium and which it will be able to prolong in the years to come.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u292	[[Other movements]] Mr Balanant, to answer your questions, I have not had a request for explanations of vote from the Republican Group.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u293	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u294	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 95 Number of votes cast 94 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 93 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u295	What? A vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u296	The rapporteur, Mr Richard Ramos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u297	[[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] I am glad that in this House, almost unanimously, we are fighting for the poor because that is what we have just voted for, showing that the law is protecting. But as we debate a better diet for the poor, I find that the Republicans are absent and that our friends from France who are insoubted do not take the right path, and I regret it! So I say congratulations to those who were present!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-03-O1146.u298	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Discussion of the proposal for a law on the statutory evolution of the community of Corsica in order to combat the phenomenon of land and real estate speculation on the island; Discussion of the draft law to ensure ethical respect for organ donation by our non-European partners; Discussion of the proposal for a law to provide France with the necessary instruments to combat plastic pollution; Discussion of the proposal for a law on combating financial exclusion and capping of bank charges; Discussion of the motion for a resolution, under Article 34(1) of the Constitution, calling on the Government to grant political asylum to Julian Assange and to facilitate access to refugee status for foreign whistleblowers; Discussion of the proposed constitutional law on the recognition of the white vote for the presidential election. The meeting is adjourned.
