ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u1	The next item is the statement by the Government on Russia's decision to wage war against Ukraine, followed by a debate, pursuant to Article 50-1 of the Constitution. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u2	By deciding, on the night of 23-24 February, to launch a massive military attack against Ukraine, the Russian Federation has committed an act of war that violates all the rules of international law, violates all its commitments and above all violates the values of peace and freedom on which the European continent has built its balance for several decades. As the President of the Republic has pointed out, we are facing a situation of war but also a "turn in the history of Europe and our country". [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud at length]] [[Applause on all benches]] I want to say this again at the outset: France condemns in the most absolute way this cynical and premeditated aggression. In these tragic moments, I reiterate our full support for the people of Ukraine, who are living terrible moments, as well as for all the victims of this absolutely inconceivable tragedy between two neighbouring countries, in Europe, in the 21st century. I also want to express my admiration for President Zelensky, who, since Kiev, has been besieged, leading the fight and facing it with courage, responsibility and dignity. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the remarkable work done by our agents of the French Embassy in Ukraine, and more broadly that of the State agents who, day and night, take turns to assist the French and to express our support for the Ukrainian authorities. Under the authority of our ambassador, Etienne de Poncins, this team works under particularly difficult conditions. For security reasons of our agents, she moved yesterday from Kiev to Lviv. We remain extremely attentive to its protection. The seriousness of the situation led me to propose as early as last week to the Presidents of the National Assembly and the Senate, to the Presidents of the parliamentary groups and to those of the competent committees of the two chambers to convene without delay a liaison committee which enabled us to share important information on Friday and to answer most of the questions which they kindly asked us. I invited yesterday, in the same spirit, the candidates for the presidential election. I have also and of course wished to respond to the legitimate request that the entire national representation should be able to express itself on this matter of the utmost importance, which leads me to submit to you today a declaration under Article 50-1 of the Constitution on the conflict in Ukraine, which will be followed by a debate. Ladies and gentlemen, France has worked hard in recent weeks and months to promote the path of reason and peace. This is also the constant line our diplomacy has followed, since President Chirac, towards President Putin's Russia. This was the case with President Sarkozy, in the context of the conflict in Georgia; This was still the case for Ukraine, since the first day of the tensions, in 2013, and in the wake of the Minsk agreements of 2014, signed while President Hollande was in Elysée. As a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, also in the light of its values, its idea of peace and the mode of conflict resolution, France had to assume its role. The initiatives taken by the Head of State have multiplied, in close liaison with our European partners and with the United States. These efforts have not been successful; Vladimir Putin not only torn the Minsk agreements, but also broke all the commitments he had made in the last few days. He bears full responsibility for it. Of course, France has never underestimated the risk of the worst case scenario. We were observing with our partners and allies the gradual deployment of a massive military device in Belarus, on the borders of Ukraine, in the Black Sea: more than 150,000 men equipped with the most modern means. A military arrangement that Vladimir Putin assured that he would withdraw once the exercises were over, while calling for diplomatic dialogue on security guarantees for Russia, and repeating that Russia was not about to invade Ukraine. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I, LT and FI groups as well as among several non-attached Members. – Mr. Jean-Paul Dufrègne also applauds]] Vladimir Putin lied. He lied to the President of the Republic, he lied to the international community, he lied to his own people: no genocide took place against the Russian-speaking populations of Donbass; No, there are no nuclear weapons on Ukrainian soil; No, Mr Zelensky is not at the head of a Nazi regime, a particularly infamous term when applied to a fully democratic country. The next one, you know her. On February 21, the masks fell. The first act of this crisis, which is likely to be long, is the recognition by the President of the Russian Federation of the two separatist regions of eastern Ukraine, the order given to the Russian forces to occupy these territories, the invasion of all Ukrainian territory from Russia, Crimea and Belarus. Vladimir Putin made the choice of war. He made the choice to want to reverse the course of history and to return to the achievements that had followed the end of the Soviet Union. It took the pretext of the situation in the Donbass region to violate territorial sovereignty and seek to overthrow the legitimate government of a country of 44 million inhabitants. Faced with this unacceptable aggression, it is necessary to react in unity and in the long term, both to support our Ukrainian friends and not to leave this act of war without response or consequence. To do this, ladies and gentlemen, we must be guided by four principles of action. The first principle is firmness. First of all in the United Nations: the resolution submitted to the Security Council as a matter of urgency was not adopted because of the Russian veto, but it demonstrated Russia's isolation, as well as the General Assembly's subsequent discussions and strong condemnation of the international community. Secondly, by setting up several sets of sanctions that we wanted to take very quickly. The European Council, under the French Presidency, approved three sanctions packages on 23, 25 and 27 February. These measures taken in coordination with our allies cover a wide range of Russian economic activities. First of all, we decided to drain the external financing capacity of the Russian economy. Since yesterday at 4 a.m., all transactions with the reserves of the Russian Central Bank are prohibited, and the assets of the Russian Central Bank held abroad are frozen. This measure is complemented by the ban imposed on the majority of Russian banks on access to SWIFT payment transmission messaging. This package of financial sanctions is unprecedented in its scale, and its effects are already palpable: the ruble was almost 30% unscrewed at the opening of markets on Monday morning. The European Union has also closed its entire airspace to Russian aircraft and airlines, including business aviation. In addition, the assets and economic resources held and controlled by those on which Vladimir Putin's power is based have been frozen. The targeted persons, precisely 476 to date, will no longer be able to access the assets they hold in the countries – of which, as you will have noted, Switzerland – that have taken these sanctions; They won't be able to go either. Vladimir Putin is also on the list of people under sanctions, as is Sergei Lavrov. Furthermore, the various cooperation between the European Union and Russia in the industrial, scientific or cultural fields is suspended. The European Council also called for the preparation of a package of sanctions – this will be the fourth – against Belarus. The exchanges, ladies and gentlemen, are continuing to go further. We're ready for it. The main thing was to act quickly and to target our measures well so that they would have a massive effect on the Russian economy, in the short term, of course, but also and especially in the long term, even if they were further tightened in stages over the next few days. Of course, these sanctions will not be painless for our European economies. We know that, and we have to assume it, unless we are content with measures that are not real in scope. Of course, we know that Russia will in turn stop countermeasures. But we are ready to do so, and we will accompany our fellow citizens and businesses so that they can best reap the economic impacts, including the likely tensions on the supply and prices of certain products. At the request of the President of the Republic, the Government was preparing a resilience plan for that purpose, which would be finalized in the next few days. I am thinking in particular of some of our industrial and agricultural sectors; I am also thinking of households as consumers of energy, especially since they have already been very affected for several months by a very powerful upward movement. For all these actors in our economic and social life, very strong protective measures have already been taken since last September – you have had to discuss most of them. The price shield on energy prices has thus made it possible to devote more than EUR 16 billion to protecting our citizens and businesses from the rise in energy prices that we are anticipating. These accompanying and protective measures will be extended and strengthened as necessary, on the basis of ongoing work. But Russia will suffer the most from the consequences of these sanctions. The unilateral and unjustified war that Vladimir Putin has unleashed will have an undeniable cost to him and his supporters. So firmness. The second principle of our action is solidarity with the Ukrainian people and government. This solidarity, the President of the Republic reiterated to President Zelensky during their almost daily talks. This solidarity is symbolically expressed by maintaining our diplomatic representation and by the constant attention we pay to our citizens. To date, about a thousand of our compatriots are still in Ukraine. We are in contact with them within the framework of the arrangements put in place under the authority of the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs. Consular teams have been deployed at border crossings in neighbouring countries to welcome our citizens who want and can leave the country. Yesterday, as you know, the possibility of leaving Kiev from the south was thus reported to them. We also express our support through increased economic support for 300 million euros of immediate aid. We also support the Ukrainian armed forces with supplies of fuel and military equipment, including weapons, in conjunction with our European partners. We will continue to do so as long as necessary. [[Applause on all benches]] We are preparing, at European Union level, to face the humanitarian consequences of this crisis. I am of course thinking, in particular, of the influx of refugees, who can be feared to be massive. The EU Civil Protection Mechanism has been activated. In this context, 33 tons of humanitarian equipment from Paris have already arrived at the Ukrainian border; the routes will continue this week, including medical assistance. France will also support Ukraine's border countries that will host refugees. We will propose, within the framework of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, that a system of solidarity should allow for a fair distribution of the reception efforts of these refugees among the countries of the Union. I would also like at this stage, to welcome this, to stress the spontaneous and strong mobilization of our fellow citizens, local authorities and associations to provide humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people. This impetus of generosity honours France and the State, of course, will accompany it. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Activité ens, UDI-I and LT groups as well as among several non-attached Members. – Mr Adrien Quatennens also applauds]] Third principle of our action: unity. Everything we do, we decide together with our partners, within the Atlantic Alliance and the European Union. You have seen and seen, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe's response has been swift, Europe's response has been strong. And we hear it amplify again. This unity, this speed, this intensity surprised – probably including President Putin. This unity, this speed, this intensity are unprecedented. We can be proud of Europe! We can be proud of the role that the French Presidency has played in stimulating it. France, the President of the Republic and the Government are at the manoeuvring and the initiative. All this shows us the course: to make Europeans actors in their collective security and to strengthen their sovereignty. This issue, which France has been promoting since, in particular, the speech delivered by the President of the Republic at the Sorbonne, will be at the heart of the next European Council on 10 and 11 March. Finally, the fourth principle, perhaps the most difficult at the moment, is the maintenance of dialogue. As I have already told you, French diplomacy has spared no effort to avoid this crisis and seek the path of de-escalation. The President of the Republic has made a personal commitment and continues to do so tirelessly. We remain convinced, indeed, that diplomacy still has a place to put an end to the war, and we will continue to engage with all the protagonists of this crisis without complacency and, of course, without yielding to the principles of law and respect for the sovereignty of States. Dialogue is essential; But if Vladimir Putin or his collaborators want to negotiate, they must first silence the weapons. Even yesterday, the Head of State met at length with the Russian President. He reiterated to him the request of the international community for an immediate ceasefire. He called for respect for international humanitarian law and the protection of civilian populations and the delivery of aid, in accordance with the resolution defended by France at the UN Security Council. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members get up and applaud]] [[Applause goes on for a long time]] Ladies and gentlemen, this crisis will be long and will have major consequences for the future of Europe. But it is the law, peace and democracy that will ultimately have to emerge victorious. We have just attended, or are in the process of attending, a first act; a first act which is not finished and which reveals the imbalance of forces present, but also the admirable courage of the Ukrainian people, Ambassador, and the mobilization of the international community. We have always been clear and our Ukrainian friends have understood this from the outset: a country like France can use force only if it is directly attacked, or within the framework of the alliance systems of which it is part. The Atlantic Alliance of which we are members is a defensive alliance. It defends itself when one of its members is attacked and Ukraine, as you know, is not a member of NATO. There is no doubt that we would have to engage militarily in the protection of our allies in Eastern Europe if the conflict were to be extended beyond Ukrainian territory in the member countries of the Alliance. The President of the Republic has already decided to strengthen our participation in NATO in the Baltic countries, Poland and Romania. While France remains committed to the deepening of the Europe of defence, it holds its place as an active, supportive and involved member of the Atlantic Alliance. In this capacity, I remind the national representative that our armed forces have been continuously participating since 2017 in the reinsurance of our Eastern allies, particularly in the Baltic countries where our engagement will continue on land and in the air. We will also take the lead, as a framework nation, in a multinational battalion that will deploy this week to Romania. We are therefore making every effort, collectively, to write the following acts of this crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups as well as on a few benches of the LR, LT and UDI-I groups]] This one will register in a long time. The Russian people will also be the collateral victim of Vladimir Putin's decisions. Perhaps he is not yet aware of it, watered by media propaganda that obscures the reality of the facts. I am not sure that this is the fate he has chosen because the Russian people are a great people. The war efforts that will have to be paid, the economic sanctions suffered, the ban on nations will impoverish and weaken Russia, to the detriment of its people, who were obviously not consulted before the decision taken by its president. We must therefore address the great Russian people and clearly lead the battle of communication, again in a partnership framework, as we have begun to do with the channels of information, or rather disinformation, controlled by the Russian power. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, the aggression of Ukraine by Vladimir Putin's forces goes far beyond a simple conflict between two countries. This aggression, which he describes in his narrative as a military operation, violates the most fundamental principles of international law, sovereignty and integrity of States. These sounds of boots to the east of Europe plunge us back into periods of history that we thought were lasting behind us. To this we want to respond differently and collectively, with the greatest firmness in our actions, unity between European allies and partners, and above all solidarity with the Ukrainian people and their leaders, who, through their resistance, dignity and courage, force our admiration and compel us. We must be at their side to support them, today and tomorrow, by all appropriate means. At the end of the day, we must always seek to favour the weapon of diplomacy, the only weapon that is worth in our democracies. We will do so by addressing the peoples of Russia and Ukraine, who make up two mature peoples and to whom we will remember incessantly that the path of force and imperialism always leads to a dead end. [[Mrs. and Mr. Members of the LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, UDI-I and LT groups stand up and applaud. – Members of the LR, SOC, FI and GDR groups also applaud]] If today Russian tanks invade Kiev, and not Budapest or Prague, it is precisely because Europe has been able to build with its partners, around common aspirations, a secure, united and prosperous whole. The majority of the Ukrainian people aspire to join this whole, to join this movement. This movement will resume because it is the meaning of history.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u3	Mr Jean-Louis Bourlanges has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u4	Here we are again confronted with the worst. The worst is the war, the war in Europe, the free war, the war of whim and good pleasure, brutally imposed, in disregard of all the rules and commitments, and without any justification whatsoever, to a people who threatened no one, and who had only two wrongs, that of wanting to be free and that of having to protect his borders only the guarantee given in 1994 by his aggressor. Woe to him whose protector is the enemy! Before defining our action, we must ask ourselves a very simple question: what does Mr Putin want? There's a false goal and a real motive. [[Walls on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Applause on many benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] The false objective is to counter the threat that Russia would face. Who can believe that the European Union and its constituent states have posed the slightest threat to anyone since 1945? Who can think that NATO, which has always been a purely defensive alliance since its creation, and sometimes a pusillanimous one, was threatened at a time when the United States was diverting its attention from Europe to the Pacific? NATO welcomed states whose peoples had been enslaved by the Soviet Union and did not integrate Ukraine because it had separated amicably from the USSR and its borders had been solemnly guaranteed by Russia. Perhaps we have been, not too threatening but too cautious, or, as the President of the Republic said, too naive, because recent events show that to save his independence it is better to benefit from Article 5 of the Treaty of Alliance than to be excluded from it. If the feeling of insecurity was the real reason for the invasion of Ukraine, Putin would not have ignored President Macron's tireless efforts to save peace by entering into negotiations with all our allies on the establishment of a new multilateral security framework. [[Same movements]] No, the real motive of the Russian initiative is to prevent Ukraine from preferring the political, economic and social model, a model of freedom, initiative and respect for the rule of law, that of the peoples of Western Europe, to that authoritarian cleptocracy that Putin imposes on his own people. Putin simply did not support the fact that Ukrainians prefer to follow the path of the Europeans of the Visegrád group rather than that of Belarus. He did not stand up to the Ukrainians refusing to turn their state into a prison for their people. The answer to the question of motive allows us to answer another question: what should we do? First of all, to react forcefully to Russian provocation by providing the people of Ukraine with all the assistance compatible with the non-extension of the war on a global level. It is a question of making lie to those who doubted, not without apparent reason, the ability of a divided America and a demobilised Europe to meet the double challenge of unity and confrontation that has been launched. That is what we are doing, the Prime Minister has just reminded us, with speed, efficiency and determination that surprise us as much as they surprise those opposite. France has long called for the rise of the assembled peoples of the European Union. It can only rejoice, in the misfortune, to be heard from now on, and especially to welcome Germany's tremendous commitment on the ground, that of confrontation, including military confrontation, which it has always looked at with just concern.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u5	And for good reason!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u6	[[Walls on the benches of the GDR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups as well as on a few benches of the LR groups, Active ens and IDU-I]] Our German friends and partners have made it clear that they are ready for confrontation, including military confrontation, in the name of the values we share. The ever-reinforced waves of sanctions of all kinds certainly show that, for us, the course of the bisounours is finally and, hopefully, definitively crossed. Europe wakes up at the castle of sleeping wood and discovers, even if it is at least thirty years late, that there is no rule of law if the law is not strong, and that it is useless for the freedom to have clean hands if it has no hands. It must then be admitted that the hardest thing, both for the Ukrainian people and for us, is before us, and that the trial will be long and painful. In one of his last speeches, General de Gaulle reminded the French that life was a fight and that success cost effort. Here we go. Since it is unlikely that Mr Putin will give up despite his initial failures, he will inevitably move to a higher speed with regard to the use of violence, even if he is locked in a political stalemate from which he will come out in due course – but when? – inevitably broken. The weeks, the months, the years that may come will be for the Ukrainian people, engaged in a long and hard war of endurance, particularly trying and cruel. For us, the peoples of France and Europe, this will be the time to make Richelieu lie, who told us that we were unable to make a long-term effort and to stoically accept the sacrifices that will be imposed on us by maintaining a sanctions regime. Our desire to defeat may be back, but it must be known that achieving victory will not be a pleasure for anyone. In 1995, in the European Parliament, François Mitterrand recalled, in an atmosphere of unheard-of fervour, this truth which today takes us to the throat: "nationalism is war". Nationalism is this closed, authoritarian, predatory ambition which pretends to ignore the will of the peoples and which we see tragically at work today behind the Russian tanks. Nationalism, as Malraux had beautifully proclaimed in his speech in memory of Jean Moulin, is the worst enemy of the nation, this "invincible and mysterious data that would fill the century", the nation, that is, simply the right of men to live free in a sovereign state. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups as well as on several benches of the LR groups, Active ens and IDU-I]] In today's struggles and in the unleashing of violence that everything suggests, nationalism is Putin, and the nation, President Zelensky. The man who wants weapons to fight, not a taxi to escape, obviously reminds us of Churchill by his physical courage because he is a permanent target for the one whose, by his word alone, he defies power and contradicts ambition. It also reminds us of the old lion of the dark hours because it embodies the indestructible union of the struggle for the freedom of a people, the Ukrainian people, and for the fundamental values, and fundamentally threatened, of all humanity. On June 18, 1940, Churchill proclaimed that the battle – how unequal! – which he was about to deliver to Nazism would be the most beautiful hour in the history of his country, for it was both the battle of England and that of the values of all mankind. Behind the fervour which, from one end of the universe to the other, supports the resistance of President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people, there is recognition of the link between the independence of a nation and the solidarity of men, the sovereignty of States and the promotion of an international order at the service of all. Interdependence and independence have stopped opposing: sovereignty and solidarity are now twin sisters. Mr Zelensky, dead or alive, will win his bet because Ukraine, like France of 18 June 1940, is not alone; As for Mr Putin, whether he is a military victor or not, he will lose his bet politically, because he will have locked Russia in the jail of the reprobates. [[Members of the Dem, LaREM and Agir ens groups rise and applaud strongly. – Several members of the LR, SOC and IUD-I groups also applaud]] Women and men in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats must be at the forefront of a fight that defends the same principles as those that have guided European integration: guaranteeing the freedom of peoples through the mutualization of their interests and the civility of their relations. President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people defend what is best in us: the inclusion of the safeguard of each other's interests in the solidarity of all. This principle is the basis of seventy-two years of European integration. That is why, in due course, the Ukraine of President Zelensky, Ukraine of courage, Ukraine of resistance, freedom and sovereignty, will have its full place among us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u7	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u8	February 24, 2022 marks a turning point in Europe's history. In the face of this event, Prime Minister, you are calling us to unity. In our history, unity has always been forged on the shared awareness of values and objectives; also the Socialist and related group offers you five missions around which to build our unity. Our first mission must be to deter Vladimir Putin from continuing the war. It is devastating for Ukraine; It will also be for Russia, and perhaps for the European continent. By his aggression, Mr Putin wants to demolish the European security order that existed since the Helsinki conference, violate the law by force, and destroy the freedom of Ukrainians. To deter Vladimir Putin from continuing the war is to cut off his ability to act by all means – and among them, the financial weapon. It is to deprive Russian banks, senior officials, oligarchs and public enterprises of all financing; It's blocking financial flows from and to Russia by excluding Russia from the SWIFT system – my group was the first to ask, starting on Thursday; It is to amputate the means of action of all those who support Mr Putin, because this war is his. We know that Mr Putin will not change course overnight, but it is essential not to leave him any square centimetre of room for manoeuvre. [[Applause on all benches]] [[Applause on the SOC benches and on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our second mission must be to support Ukraine – as you pointed out, Prime Minister. The members of the Socialist and Related Group and I want to reaffirm our full solidarity with the Ukrainian people who were bruised by the war. For France, this support involves sending weapons to Ukrainian fighters, being with President Zelensky and his government, and organising the reception of Ukrainian refugees. Everywhere in France, communities, municipalities, departments and regions volunteer, with incredible energy, to ensure this welcome. Since Thursday, the gestures of solidarity and humanitarian aid of our fellow citizens have increased. It is now up to the State to support this movement, in the context of a European dialogue, in order to enable this solidarity to materialize. Prime Minister, you must make it clear to the French that we will welcome Ukrainian refugees to France. It is your duty to organise this reception in a transparent manner. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Same movements]] Our third mission must be to prevent Mr Putin's war from spreading to other countries in Europe. As part of NATO, French soldiers have just arrived in Romania; I would like to pay tribute to their courage and to thank the armies for their mobilization, commitment and professionalism. In this assembly or elsewhere, some would like to send back NATO and Russia: they are making a mistake. The real military lever to prevent Mr Putin from extending his war to other European countries is NATO, in coordination with the European Union. But soon a clean European defence will have to emerge. I come to our fourth mission: Europe must think of itself in power. It has always refused to do so so so far, for many reasons: national selfishness, a European excuse, a lack of collective ambition... Ukraine's aggression puts her back on the wall. Since Saturday, I have to acknowledge that Europe has made the right decisions and has exceeded its usual chill when confronted with the imperative of power. Since Saturday, it has played the role that the peoples expect of it. Finally – this is our fifth mission – thinking and acting in power needs to be sovereign; But we are not enough, neither in France nor in Europe. For many years, the followers of the downsizing, the low-cost gurus and the unconditional singers of foreign investment have taken over and led European countries to hold back their sovereignty. The only sovereignty we have managed to maintain is agricultural sovereignty – but it may not last, because many non-European investors are buying back our land. To be sovereign is to regain control of his future. For our part, we do not share the Government's strategy, which since 2019 has refused to place all the industries of our country under the protection of the decree, known as Montebourg, on foreign investment subject to prior authorization. We do not share the Government's strategy, which has the effect of impoverishing EDF by selling it nuclear electricity at a loss. Being sovereign has a cost and requires public investment, particularly in renewable energy. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on a few benches of the LR and Dem groups]] While a war has been declared on the European continent by a nuclear power, our collective responsibility is immense. It is both a challenge and a chance to take up the words of the German Chancellor on Sunday at the Bundestag. We will only seize this opportunity and collectively take up this challenge if we finally build European sovereignty, the one that will give people control over their future.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u9	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u10	Russia's brutal invasion of Ukraine last week marked the return of the war in Europe. The war resounds in our homes as a thunderstorm in a spring day, when we thought we had established peace among the nations of our continent for nearly seventy-seven years. While we thought we could enjoy the dividends of peace, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the story – which, in essence, is never over – reminds us brutally that we are all Ukrainians. There is a need to understand the reasons, to manage the immediate issues and to anticipate the consequences. When war arises, it is always a failure – in this case, the failure is that of Russia, but also that of the West, and therefore a little of ours. After 1990, we built Europe on the Union, without responding to the two great nations that stood at our doorstep: Russia and Turkey. These two nations, one treated as a defeat of the cold war, the other maintained in vain hope of joining the European Union, felt the humiliation of being bound to legal obligations linked to values, while they were not offered any association with the sharing of common prosperity. From this humiliation were born leaders and politicians who wanted to restore the pride of peoples and their place in history by the force of arms, tragic stuttering of the twentieth century. Nothing can excuse Mr Putin's actions, but not trying to understand the causes would prevent us from dealing with their long-term effects. [[Mr. Jean-Luc Mélenchon applauds]] However, let us start with the short term, i.e. the management of the present situation. By violating Ukraine's territorial integrity, Russia violated the most sacred of the principles of international law: the inviolability of borders. Whatever vision of the history and ties that have united the Russian people with the territory of Ukraine, nothing allows a nation to re-design, by force of arms, its borders or those of its neighbours, whether land or sea – I insist on this last point, because there have been significant tensions in recent years in the Mediterranean, as a result of the Turkish will to change its maritime borders, especially with Greece, in order to prospect for hydrocarbons. Breaking borders in the name of past empires necessarily plunges the whole world into chaos – for we have all, at one point in history, belonged to another entity. So all those who change borders by force, starting with Mr Putin, must be arrested. It is not only the security of Ukraine that is at stake, but also the security of the whole world. [[Ms. Danielle Brulebois applauds]] Three ways are offered to stop this expansionism: first the economic sanctions – they were taken, with an almost immediate effect – and then solidarity with the Ukrainian people – it has so far consisted of providing it with defensive means and humanitarian aid, and finally the sending of French soldiers to Estonia and Romania as part of NATO reinsurance operations. The Action Together Group endorses these three types of measures, which have been proposed and implemented with an unrivalled will by President Emmanuel Macron. We must be prepared to face the consequences. At the economic level, the sanctions already imposed are massive; They represent several thousand billion euros of assets frozen or lost revenue, and will plunge the Russian economy into a deep recession. We ourselves will suffer collateral effects. We must expect an increase in oil, gas and electricity prices, which will affect households and the competitiveness of our economy, and which will therefore fuel inflation. We have, of course, voted for a tariff shield on gas and electricity, but the cost of energy will be multiplied for taxpayers, so we will have to provide new lines in our budgets to protect them. With regard to fuels, we have voted for the allocation of an inflation check to households, but it will be widely consumed when the price of petrol exceeds 2 euros per litre: new support measures will therefore be necessary. As far as agricultural materials are concerned, we must anticipate an increase in the price of cereals and, above all, a shortage of potash and nitrogen fertilizers, which are essential for soil fertilisation and therefore for productivity. We will need to quickly find alternative sources of supply, such as other raw materials such as lithium and titanium, which are essential to our industry. Finally, we must anticipate the monetary consequences of Russia's exclusion from the SWIFT system, which could have an impact on the price of the dollar and other currencies. At the military level, we must be aware that the delivery of weapons to Ukraine places us in a confrontational, even indirect, position with Russia. We are therefore exposed to reprisals, particularly in cyberspace. The risk of attacks on internet or electrical networks through "logical bombs" is real; We must prepare for it and anticipate our resilience, because these actions could have serious consequences for the French. We must already draw red lines on the ground, by making Mr Putin understand that if he continued his offensive towards new territories – I am thinking of Georgia, Transnistria, Gagauzia, Republika Srpska in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and even more so the NATO countries – he could plunge Europe and the world into a total war from which Russia would surely emerge annihilated. Finally, we must welcome, in a dignified and equitable manner between every country in Europe, Ukrainian refugees fleeing the horrors of war, and protect them before they can return home to rebuild their country. This crisis reminds us violently that freedom can only be achieved if we are ready to die for it, and that the return to energy sovereignty will have a significant cost to the purchasing power of Europeans. Beyond that, the crisis challenges us on the future of Europe. While on the far left and the far right of the Chamber we have been hearing for years the breakers of NATO and Europe, we are finding out brutally that we need not less Europe, but more Europe, and better Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u11	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u12	We will need to rebuild the great Europe, that of the post-Putin region, in order to offer our neighbours the future of shared prosperity. For our enemy is not the Russian people but the regime of Vladimir Putin. In the same way that the founding fathers, after the Second World War, had taken the path of energy – coal and steel, then nuclear – we will have to build a community of decarbonised energy through the great Europe that will promote the energy transition and, consequently, the prosperity of all the peoples who are now living in fossil fuels. We will also need to rebuild the European Union around a hard core that assumes its political vocation and has a defence and diplomacy that enables it, together with its NATO allies, to face the new dangers of the world. This European defence must also act in a sovereign manner, without NATO's help, because if Donald Trump were still President of the United States, it is not certain, given his past and even present statements, that the Russian tanks would stop in Kiev and not go as far as Brest. It is in times of crisis such as those we are going through that we realize how much Europe is not only the guarantor of peace and prosperity in our countries, but also of our sovereignty and security. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group and on many benches of the LaREM, Dem and IDU-I groups]] Yes, Europe is not a continent but a legacy, that of philosophy and law, culture, the arts, science and humanism: it is the legacy of Aristotle and Cicero, Voltaire and Goethe, Copernicus and Einstein, Da Vinci and Shakespeare, Picasso and Victor Hugo, but also Gogol and Dostoevski. By preferring war to peace, Putin tramples on this legacy of his boots. It is he we must defend today because the fight that is being waged is not just a fight of arms: it aims to defend the values of democracy and freedom, and human rights, against dictatorship and oppression. We have already experienced such moments in history: men and women have always been in France standing right in front of the world to defend them. It is only at this price that we can live free and, democratically, choose our destiny; It is only at this price that we can live together peacefully, in order to give to our children, in our turn, an inheritance of which we will not be ashamed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u13	Mr Jean-Christophe Lagarde has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u14	Last Thursday, after months of a long-prepared plan, Vladimir Putin launched the invasion of Ukraine and the war in Europe. Citizens as Western leaders, we all discovered with shock and fear that the war was not a concept relegated to the accessories of history but that it was back, bloodyly and brutally, on the European continent, 2400 kilometres from Paris. None of us, members of the nation, imagined in 2017 that we would ever have to debate in this Chamber of War on our continent. This is a shock for the generations we represent and for our children, who had become accustomed to loving and living peace. Those who believed that a return to war on our continent was impossible had no doubt forgotten the lessons of our grandparents and great-grandparents who had known her and knew that she was still possible. The cold aggression of the Russian dictator aims to stifle the aspirations of a Ukrainian people who have been struggling since 2014 to live in freedom, a people who aspire to live like us, who embrace our values, for whom we represent a dream: the European dream.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u16	We welcome, Prime Minister, the unanimous condemnation of European governments and the initiatives taken by the French Government, which we support, and the other Western governments to introduce sanctions – too timid in the beginning, then real and massive. We welcome the decisions taken to provide humanitarian, economic and military assistance, as well as, I would like to emphasize here before our Assembly, several major events: Germany, for the first time in its history, decides to deliver arms to Ukraine – this has never been seen since 1945; Sweden emerges from its neutrality and also helps the Ukrainian people who suffer and fight; Switzerland, which is historically even more neutral, joins the economic sanctions applied against the Russian regime; The European Union, which is said and which we know too divided, meets and decides, for once, to act together. This is the gravity but also the strength of the awakening of our countries and peoples, whose public opinions are in solidarity – French public opinion is admired by these men and women who are fighting and who are dying at this moment in the streets of Kiev or Kharkiv, facing an infinitely more powerful aggressor who wants to crush their dreams and enslave them. The hearts of the French are with those who are under the bombs, with those who dig trenches in their city, with those women and children who go to take refuge while the spouses return to fight the invader. The French, of course, are in solidarity, but they also fear that the conflict will degenerate into a global conflict, affecting our continent as a whole. Prime Minister, we must tell the truth to the French who are able to understand it, even if it is unpleasant: France is not at war but is no longer truly at peace. This explains the economic sanctions that have been decided, but also the consequences that we will have to bear: inflation, interest rates, the constrained budget, and less growth. We too will suffer the effects of the conflict which the President of the Republic said would last for a long time; We must prepare for it now, whatever our political options. It also explains the cost of humanitarian aid, arms deliveries, French deployments in Romania or the Baltic countries to defend the free world to which we belong. If we do not do so today, it is our freedom that will be threatened tomorrow. I say it with a little regret: I wish we could deliver weapons sooner, but I am glad that we are now doing so. For only determination, and nothing else, can drive Vladimir Putin back. [[Mrs. Valérie Rabault applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on several benches of the LaREM and SOC groups]] It also explains our urgent duty to welcome those fleeing this war to France and Europe. I would also like to thank the Government and the prefects for questioning the deputies of the nation and representatives of local communities to determine whether they can accommodate refugees. This honours France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u18	If there are those who have forgotten that war is possible, our country must not forget that it too has been invaded and that in our history our grandparents have been happy to be able to count on the hospitality of other peoples when they were in distress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u19	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u20	[[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group and on a few benches of the LR group. – Mr. David Habib also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the IDU-I group. – Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Mrs Mathilde Panot also applaud]] What a contrast to those who, like Mr Zemmour, advocated the departure of France from NATO not so long ago: I invite him to ask the people of Kiev whether it is not good to belong to NATO to be protected, so that their freedom and security are preserved. He who has the indecency to want to turn his back on the victims of his friend Putin and who prefers to keep them in Poland, one of the poorest countries in Europe, rather than show solidarity and agree to allocate the effort to deal with this war. He who hoped a Putin for France. What an irony of the history made to those who transvestite the lessons that this news that reminds us that there is still a fifth column in France and that racism, fascism, the nostalgia of petanism rhyme with collabo! But here I leave the trash in the story. We already need to learn a few lessons, Prime Minister. First, in this misfortune, we have a double chance: first, that our main ally, the United States of America, should not be led by Mr Trump or an equivalent, he who wanted to decouple Europe from his country through the gradual demolition of NATO – because there is no guarantee that we would then have had such powerful allies at our side; Secondly, that there is not at the same time a major crisis in Asia and Europe, because the United States may not be able to fight on both fronts. The first lesson is that we can only rely on ourselves to defend ourselves: French and Europeans. The awakening of Germany, which realizes that its army is out of order to fight and participate in our collective defence, bodes well for this. So much the better if the German Chancellor finally made the efforts that his country had abandoned for so long, while France was trying to do more and more. [[Applause on several benches in the IUD-I group]] The second lesson is that the absence of democracy in Russia will remain a permanent danger for our countries, with Putin or without him. A leader like Vladimir Putin, similarly acabit and relying on the same oligarchy, actually stops only when one opposes his ambitions by force. Quite frankly, the crazy demands of the Russian President, who not only wants to demilitarize Ukraine, remove the existing power and enslave the country to Russia, but also asks Poland, Romania, Hungary and the Czech Republic to leave NATO and return to Moscow, show how far there are no limits to the ambition of restoring an empire in this dictator. We will have to show more than determination to Russia, as long as it is not a democracy, that is, as long as it does not share the same values as we do. Finally, the third lesson comes from the background of the ages. The Latins said, "So screw pacem, para bellum." That is what Europe must learn. This is probably the weakness of Ukraine, in recent months, in recent years, which has led Russia and its dictator to think that it could easily invade Ukraine and thus enlarge its empire, to divert attention from internal difficulties in his country. Yes, Prime Minister, we must rearm France quickly, strongly and widely. That is also true of our continent. The military programming law for the years 2019 to 2025 provided for an annual growth of 1.7 billion euros per year until 2022, and then 3 billion euros per year: the pace must be accelerated. The attrition of our armies is too important for them to be able to resist a long and global war. Europe must also contribute to this effort; It is beginning to do so for the benefit of Ukraine, but it would be good if it did not forget that France was intervening to defend it in Africa and the Sahel, drawing on its own budget. Finally, we will have to develop in our societies a spirit of defence that we have long forgotten, thanks to an educational, economic and civil organization, reduce our dependence on the outside world and increase our resilience. Consider what would happen if, tomorrow, a Russian submarine cut off transatlantic ties by severing the submarine cables that connect our two continents. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I group and on some benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] Our political family and our independent IDU group have always fought, long before this dramatic war in Ukraine occurred, for our countries to build a European power so as not to suffer that of others. More than ever since 1945, it is this turning point in an assumed will of power that must be our path. It is not only about our independence but also about our security. Some say that the events are similar to those of 1938: I am sure, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that no one here will want us to go to Munich; But no one should forget that we had fallen asleep behind the Maginot line and that Maginot must never exist again in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u21	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u22	[[Applause on the benches of the LT, LaREM, LR and Dem groups as well as on numerous benches of the SOC, Activité ens, UDI-I, FI and GDR groups]] It is with great emotion that I wish first of all, on behalf of my colleagues in the Freedom and Territory Group, to pay a vibrant tribute to the immense courage of the Ukrainian people, who are so bravely resisting the Russian military offensive. What a lesson, my friends! What a lesson! This war is a tragedy for the Ukrainian people, a tragedy for the whole of Europe and a challenge for all democracies in the world. Let us not deceive ourselves: if this war is lost and we do not quickly find the paths of peace, then the old continent – as the other nations call us, sometimes with a bit of irony – will definitely have shown that it has nothing to bring to the world. Today, with the Ukrainians, we are facing our history. The poet Taras Chevchenko, figure of the Ukrainian nation, describing the tears and oppressions suffered by the Ukrainian people, who saw so much tears and blood in their history, wrote: "The truth will rise! Freedom will be reborn! It is the peace that we all wish to see reborn in Ukraine. There is no justification for Vladimir Putin's aggression against Ukraine and its people, who are so fond of peace and harmony. So the Ukrainians came into resistance. Let us measure their sacrifice: he is up to the attachment of a people to his land as well as to his freedom. A nation, in the sense given to it by Ernest Renan, is a great solidarity, constituted by the feeling of the sacrifices made by those who are still willing to do more; It's a moral conscience. The resistance of the Ukrainians demonstrates to the whole world that they are a great and a true nation. So what would be the Ukrainians' fault in Vladimir Putin's eyes? To be a country that wants to freely choose its destiny, a country that wants democracy and turns its back on an authoritarian model. What is happening in these hours in Kiev, Kharkiv and Mariupol against Russia is also the future of European democracy, the future of our continent. The peoples of Europe have not been mistaken: this is proof of the momentum of solidarity that is passing through our territories. I would also like, in these dark hours, to have a thought for the Russians who, at the risk of their lives,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u24	[[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on many benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC groups, Take action, IDU-I, FI and GDR groups as well as among non-attached Members]] ...manifest against war. They too show immense courage. I will not dwell on the blindness of those who dreamed of us as little French Putin or who saw the power of Moscow as our most reliable ally – these theories were still defended a few weeks ago by extremist candidates for the presidency of the Republic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u25	Liar!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u26	What stupidity, what a renunciation of our own values of freedom, equality and fraternity! From now on, they make them believe that they are for peace, but do not deceive us: what they admired and admired at Putin is his brutality and the renunciation of democracy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u27	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u28	Let us hope that this war can shed light on our fellow citizens who could still be lost in this deadly way. If, in less than a week, we were seized by the violence of the Russian attack and the resistance of the Ukrainians, we also discovered that we were very little prepared to silence an aggressor who was not in his attempt, especially since the warnings about the deployments of troops showed us the imminence of this conflict. We could have thought of Ossetia, Abkhazia, Transnistria, Crimea or Donbass! There was a lot of candour and blindness, even though the President of the Republic was right to try to negotiate peace. Anyway, our awakening is now brutal. Without having given Ukraine more weapons and demonstrated to the Russian aggressor that we had immediate means on our continent to silence him, thus avoiding this war, we have responded, but fortunately. The violence of the attack required a firm response from France, Europe and our allies. We had to act even more forcefully because our American ally is, unfortunately, less and less concerned about our interests.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u29	It's better if he doesn't get involved! Leave them where they are, our American allies!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u30	Europe is taking control of itself, far too late, but the momentum seems to be finally set in motion. After the shock of the first hours, which highlighted our impreparation in the face of the worst scenario, we reacted, and I would like to salute the action of France. As Ukraine is not a member of the European Union or NATO, we have not been bound by our treaties to a duty of military intervention. I would add that by saying, on the NATO side, that we would not intervene militarily in this country, we imprudently invited the wolf to enter the sheepfold. However, this should not mean inaction, on the contrary. We know the disproportion of the forces present. The Russians have air supremacy and have made a breakthrough from Belarus towards Kiev. Other fronts have been opened. The urgency was obviously the aid of military equipment for Ukraine, and I therefore stress, in my turn, the unprecedented commitment of the European Union and the aid of France, as well as the direct assistance provided by many Member States. Let's hope all this happens in time and it's not too late. It is also urgent to make Russia understand the disastrous consequences of the continuation of war, both ethically and economically. In this area, after a little hesitation, the hands of Europe, the United States and Western countries did not tremble for once when it came to economic and financial sanctions. Let us acknowledge that Europe has also, and for once, decided to act decisively, with the exclusion of several Russian banks from the SWIFT system, of banking sanctions, the freezing of assets, sanctions against oligarchs and the prohibition of Russian commercial flights on its territory. These measures will have to be evaluated over time and, depending on their effects, adapted or corrected. I would like to thank all the Europeans who are mobilizing for Ukraine, but also for the French and French. If their leaders do this, it is also because they are supported despite the serious consequences for our economies of this conflict. The third priority is, of course, the return to peace. Finally, it is a matter of establishing, as I have always called for, and as many parliamentarians have called for with me, a real Europe of defence, an old sea serpent. By an irony of history, Russian aggression may finally advance this cause. This issue was rightly one of the priorities of the French Presidency. It is important to move forward with our partners, especially the Germans, who were very reluctant and are fortunately beginning to move. We must take a step in Europe's strategic autonomy. Let us recall Jean Monnet's words: "Europe will be in crises and it will be the sum of the solutions to these crises. » In conclusion, we cannot hide the fate of the victims of the war. It is impossible to quantify them at this stage, but our humanitarian action must be commensurate with the urgency and the momentum of solidarity that we see in our compatriots. Hundreds of thousands of people are already approaching the Polish and Romanian borders. To these women and men, we have a duty of humanity. We must take our part and I would like to greet all those who are beginning to organize in our country. We must collectively live up to the events that dramatically shake our continent. This obliges us all to be responsible and to measure. In the face of war, we must respect a form of national union, or rather national harmony. This obliges you, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, to a more collective management of this crisis, involving our political forces. You have made efforts – I am thinking of the Liaison Committee in which I participated last Friday. It is important to maintain this link despite the presidential and legislative campaign. I know you're attached to it. [[Applause on the benches of the LT group and on many benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Act in and IDU-I groups as well as among the non-attached MPs]] Our country, which is still going through the covid pandemic, is experiencing a war in Europe. In these circumstances, we need to revive the democratic debate, which was so desperately flat. As we ask ourselves about the functioning of our democracy, we receive a fine and great lesson from Ukraine: this democracy is, from Paris to Kiev, our most precious common good. Long live democracy, live freedom, live peace, live free Ukraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u31	Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u32	Let's take some height to measure the disaster we're in right now. The IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, is announcing irreversible changes in the climate: half of humanity and biodiversity are under threat, but we are stuck in a conflict that can degenerate into nuclear war at any moment, destroying humanity even faster. James-Webb, the most powerful telescope that humanity has ever built, has come into operation at the limits of the orbit of our planet, but we must have as a priority to monitor from the space of the movements of military trucks. Humanity is thus plunged into a dismaying regression because, in one night of invasion, the nationalist government of Russia has just brought us back to the nineteenth century, where disputes between powers were settled by war, or in the twentieth century, when all war in Europe became world-wide. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and LT groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the FI group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Exclaims on many banks of the LaREM Group]] Whatever the causes of the invasion of Ukraine, nothing can excuse it or relativize it. The threat it contains is that of a total world war, which makes it a crime against the general human interest of our time. Mr Putin's government bears full responsibility for this, since it is he and no one else who has taken action. Politics is made up of realities, facts! In this way, the honor of the human condition is obviously in the resistance of the Ukrainians,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u34	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Applause on many benches in the FI group]] ... but it is also in the resistance of the Russians themselves, of those who, with courage, demonstrate against the decision of war of their own country. They bear witness to the universal human aspiration for peace. Their manifestations give us a model of action. They politically undermine the cohesion of the Russian government's decision-making machinery. Let us never forget: the Russian people are not our enemies. We, French, do not confuse it with the nationalist regime in place. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We now know what alternative we are locked in. No participation in the war could remain limited: action and reaction would follow relentlessly and without limits. In the face of a nuclear power like Russia, general nuclear destruction would be the foreseeable horizon. Moreover, Mr Putin did not hesitate to threaten the world himself. Therefore, however frustrating it may be, the only rational path is that of peace. It has a clear name: de-escalation. As frustrating as it is, the alternative remains simple: either diplomacy, or total war. Everything has to go to diplomacy and nothing, if anything, to war.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u35	Mélenchon quotes Sarkozy?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u36	[[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] Beware of improvised solutions and posture comforts. The means we use must never be able to turn against us. However, I regret that the European Union has decided to "provide arms necessary for a war", as Commissioner Josep Borrell, responsible for external relations, said. That decision would make us co-belligerent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u37	Get off the masks!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u38	There's a gear going on. With what legitimacy? When did Parliament decide that? Why did you break what Commissioner Borrell himself described as a taboo in the history of the Union, that is, never providing weapons to belligerents?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u39	Crypto-bisoun bears!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u40	Pointing these weapons from Poland, NATO land, is it not to be at the mercy of all the provocations of the parties to the conflict?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u41	It's a shame! Ukrainians die under bombs!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u42	[[Hues on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Cut the SWIFT financial circuit, isn't it starting a global escalation by pushing Russians and Chinese to use their own circuit exclusively?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u43	Disqualified!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u44	What benefit for peace? Rather, it would be better to take a radical diplomatic initiative, i.e. to agree to deal frankly, directly, with the substance of the problem posed: the security of each nation in Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u45	You're Putin's poodle!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u46	This question remained open after the implosion of the USSR since, for the first time in contemporary history, an empire collapsed without discussing the new borders. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It's possible, the tool exists. This requires the opening of a special session of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) established by the Helsinki Agreements in 1975. This means exists; Let's get him started. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and SOC groups]] [[Nicolas Dupont-Aignan applauds]] The solution also exists: it is the proclamation of Ukraine's neutrality. President Zelensky said he was officially ready. Moreover, this neutrality was adopted by the parliament of Ukraine in 1990, on the day of the vote of its declaration of sovereignty, by 339 votes to 5. In this document, Ukraine solemnly declares its intention to be a perpetually neutral State that does not participate in any military bloc. At this time, it is a matter of making diplomacy more profitable than war. It is a matter of forcing stakeholders to negotiate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u47	What do you do with his sovereignty? Ukraine is a sovereign state!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u48	And if the offer were made, the counterpart could be the immediate cease-fire, so that the martyrdom of the Ukrainians would cease. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Let us say again that such a negotiation is in our most direct interest as French, because we too have security claims. The first is to ban the installation of medium-range missiles capable of reaching France from the ground of Russia or its allies. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] In any case, we have just touched the limits of the doctrine of terrestrial nuclear deterrence, I say terrestrial, in the face of a resolute adversary, because everything or nothing clearly locks in nothing if we are not ready to blow ourselves up. The war in Ukraine therefore obliges us to rethink a great deal about ourselves. The denuclearization of the world must once again become a concrete objective of our diplomacy, since nuclear overbidding cannot have any concrete meaning. The war in Ukraine has just proved it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u49	She just proved you have no presidential stature!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u50	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group]] Let us remember at this moment, notwithstanding the cries that you make, the number of border conflicts that are still expressed in one way or another on the ground of the old continent. Today, thirteen countries are involved, one quarter of the nations of the old continent. This proves how much better it would be to convene a European border conference in time to define how each case should be dealt with, thereby establishing a doctrine shared by all.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u51	And Putin would hold the pencil!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u52	Humanist pacifier!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u53	The crisis we have just experienced questions all past certainties and doctrines. At the United Nations, in the vote on the resolution on Ukraine, we note the abstention of India and China, that is, of 50 per cent of humanity. It's a very important signal. Another geopolitical order of the world is already in place, from Asia. It's time to update our designs. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM group]] The current Russian nationalist regime acts as an authoritarian oligarchic capitalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u54	It's laborious, it's boiled!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u55	It's dusty! He's uncomfortable!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u56	The invasion of Ukraine signed a new identity card after thirty years of continuous change. This is the end of the new world order announced by George Bush in 1991. The time has come for a general reorganization. Pushed into each other's arms by the strategy of the United States, Russia and China bring out a new bloc. Unfortunately, we have been unable to promote Europe, from the Atlantic to the Urals; is it too late? In this new context, do the automatisms and allegiances of the past have an interest in us, French? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u57	It's laborious!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u58	Non-alignment is our interest. In the changing situation of our time, we must not be forced by anyone. We need to get out of NATO, an inefficient organization that participates in its desire to expand wartime tensions on our continent. Non-alignment does not mean neutrality. France's choice puts it on the side of international law, and this right is on the side of Ukraine. Non-aligned, we will be free to conduct a truly alterglobalistic diplomacy. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and on a few benches of the GDR group. – Hues on the benches of the LaREM group]] From a weakness let's make a strength. The current crisis has all the risks but also all the means of a positive rebound. Be careful, the postures of going-in-war always swarm around conflicts. But democratic political action at all levels is nothing more than an ongoing effort to resolve by discussion and collective decision the violence of the conflicts that divide society. Democracy remains a choice of political optimism. At this time, we must demonstrate this about the crisis in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u59	Mélenchon, you creepy corporal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u60	Mr Fabien Roussel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u61	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Active ens, IDU-I and LT groups]] I speak before you with the gravity, the extreme gravity that the situation demands. Our responsibility is indeed immense. On behalf of the Communist Group, the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, I would like first of all to express our full solidarity, our full support for the Ukrainian people, who have been plunged into unspeakable suffering since last Thursday. It is first of all to him, to all these women, these men, these children exposed to the fire of bombs, to these whole families forced into exile that we think. We are at their side; France is at their side. In this respect, Prime Minister, I hope that we will organize ourselves collectively to ensure, in each commune of France, the reception of the families of Ukrainian refugees, and that each country of the European Union will take its part and ensure that the right to asylum is fully enjoyed. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, LR and Dem groups. – Mr Adrien Quatennens and Mrs Caroline Fiat also applaud]] I also mean here my strongest and most relentless condemnation of the Russian President's choice of weapons and blood. Vladimir Putin, the irresponsible, the going-in-war...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u62	There's someone who speaks plainly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u63	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, LR and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and SOC groups]] ... which has been distilling for years the poison of nationalism, which relies on its far-right friends everywhere, in Europe and in France; Putin, who is about to sacrifice the peoples, the Ukrainian people first, but also the Russian people who will have to suffer harshly from the grave consequences of this conflict; Putin has already sown poverty, inequality and violence in his country; who today dared to brandish the threat of nuclear weapons, ignoring the tragic events of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. The Russian President is endangering the future of humanity, that of our children, with the coldness and cynicism that characterize authoritarian regimes. He will find in this war only desolation for his people, collapse for his economy and dishonour for his regime. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM and LR groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on many benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and SOC groups. – Mr Adrien Quatennens also applauds]] Yes, as we say, France and all the countries mobilized today, in Europe and throughout the world, must take strong political, diplomatic and economic sanctions in order to force the Russian President to the ceasefire, force him to sit down at the negotiating table and put an end to his offensive. I take this opportunity to salute the world of sport and culture, which takes its full place in this international fight. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group and on some benches of the LaREM, LR, Dem and SOC groups]] The union of nations in Europe and in the world, the strength of the unanimous peoples, the weight of sanctions, all this must ensure an immediate ceasefire. No country, no nation can accept that international law is so violated and flouted. Moreover, we will be all the more united and audible in the field of international law as we will also fight to ensure that it is respected everywhere and for all peoples. It is also the condition of the union of nations against Putin. Of course, we will still be able to discuss what preceded this conflict, the persistence of the last thirty years, on the part of the United States and some NATO members, to always want to establish new bases at the gates of Russia. Today, the debate is not there. The danger is that this conflict will widen and expand. This danger is real, because this war poses the risk of a world war. I want to remind you more than ever that, in the face of weapons and the risk of a widespread outbreak of conflict, we must give all their strength to diplomacy, dialogue and the construction of a relationship of political and economic forces so that we can avoid a fatal spiral. France must do everything possible to avoid the burning, to avoid NATO participating in this war, as it does, because the consequences would be terrifying. This is the risk of an exacerbation of the conflict. Our history, that of humanity, unfortunately abounds in warrior gears leading to the worst. Let's keep them in memory so they never repeat each other. Let us never forget the 80 million deaths of the first two world wars and the sacrifices of several generations. This twenty-first century is even more dangerous, more devastating, because the threat of a world war is compounded by the threat of the use of nuclear weapons. So, with all our heart, strong in this history that we bear in us, in the name of these men and women who have done everything to prevent the war escalations in the past century, on behalf of these Members like Jean Jaurès, very alone here to defend the path of peace, let us say that we must not add war to war. The arms race launched in recent years by the major Powers poses a threat to the world, to peoples, to youth and to large-scale destruction. So yes, France has a major role to play. The decisions that will be taken in the coming hours and days will be crucial. First, to avoid the escalation of the conflict, the war escalation which, at some point, can end in an infernal spiral, uncontrollable, which no one can stop. Let us remember that it is impossible to predict the outcome of an armed conflict. The only certainty is destruction, chaos and civilian and military casualties. Let us always keep the demagogic auctions and the postures of going-in-war. That is why I ask that Parliament be able to vote at every stage on France's words and decisions in the face of this war. It is through democracy that we can best overcome the threats to it. In this situation, France has a great responsibility to act in favour of peace. When France, in the name of its history, speaks for peace, it speaks with a strong and fair voice. When France refuses the logics of blocs, when it affirms its full independence to say law and justice, it is heard by the peoples of the world. So yes, as many say, the solution to this tragedy will not be military. France must continue to assert strongly that its priority is the establishment of a ceasefire. France must put all its energy, all its know-how, the fruit of its tradition, in the search for a diplomatic, political solution, and of course affirm that it will bring all its solidarity to the Ukrainian people. The urgency is to do everything possible to obtain a ceasefire and to open negotiations. It is, of course, the interest of the Ukrainian people, but it is also the interest of the Russian people to whom we do not want to wage war, and that of all the peoples of Europe. We must open all possible spaces for dialogue, exert all possible pressure and take all possible sanctions to obtain this ceasefire, the protection of Ukrainians and the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. We can play this role as a permanent member of the Security Council in order to propose that the United Nations relaunch the process of bringing together all European states with Ukraine and Russia. Among all the pressures to be exerted are those, clear and strong, coming from the united peoples expressing their solidarity and calling for peace. Our people, united in their great diversity, must, together with all the other peoples of the world, stand up, reach out to the Russian pacifists who have the courage to demonstrate, support the Ukrainian people and make heard this strong and symbolic voice of the workers of the whole world, young people, families mobilized for peace. Yes, it is for the people to be heard, because it is they who will be, who are in the front line, they who are always victims of the logics of force and war. We must also be intractable to all the profitors who cynically abuse this conflict by making the lives of our fellow citizens ever more expensive by their speculation on gas, oil and wheat. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I, LT and several benches of the LR group]] I would also like to say that the time is serious enough for it to leave no room for sterile polemics and quarrels. For our part, for my part, I will not participate. We will make our contribution, we will make our voice heard in favour of peace and for the unity of the French. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LaREM, Dem, SOC, Activité ens, UDI-I and LT groups, many of which stand up]] We will always be among those who choose peace and hope because, as Aragon said, we must "believe in the sun when the water falls."
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u64	Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u65	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, Agir ens, IUD-I, LT and on several benches of the LR group]] As I begin my remarks, I would like to address a thought to our colleagues from the Rada in Kyiv. Many of them immediately stood up and armed to defend their country, at the risk of their lives, for the honour of their country. This courage must inspire us. They're history. It's up to us to live up to the stakes. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] So I say to you, with humility, but as a cry from here, from the living heart of democracy: I am an Ukrainian. Ladies and gentlemen, the war has returned to Europe. With Russia's declaration of war on Ukraine and the violation of its territory by the Russian army on 24 February, peace in the European Union is now more threatened than ever since the end of the cold war. More than 30 years after the end of the Iron Curtain, a foreign leader asked his army to invade a sovereign country to overthrow its democratic government and enslave it. More than thirty years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, an autocratic regime tries to force peoples to adhere to a fantasized historical narrative, in disregard of their choices and their most basic rights. More than seventy years after the end of the Second World War, a country openly chose a policy of aggression and annexation, in violation of international law and the sovereignty of States. This flagrant and conscious violation of the principles underpinning the European and international order must be denounced for what it is: an unjustified and unjustifiable war. In recent weeks, the President of the Republic, in conjunction with our European partners and allies, has sought, by all means, to preserve peace and maintain the necessary diplomatic dialogue. It is the honour of France, it is the honour of our democracies, to have tried to preserve the peoples of war until the end, but if these discussions were to succeed, it would still have been necessary for the Russian authorities to have intended to respect the peace, the right and the word given. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups, Dem and some benches of the LR group]] At the heart of the European Union, France takes its full part in the decisions announced in recent days and hours. The European Union has decided on a historic economic aid of €1.2 billion, of which €300 million comes from France. Defense weapons are sent to Ukrainians, as well as survival equipment. Significant humanitarian aid is being channelled to border countries, in particular Moldova. France is taking its full part in this effort, as it is already doing as a major player in NATO. Our group places itself in unwavering support of French and European soldiers in the Baltic States and Romania. Moreover, the reception of the thousands of refugees who had to leave Ukraine brutally to flee the fighting must be a European priority. France must also be up to the challenge. Russian abuses will not remain without consequences. The sanctions adopted by the European Union and its allies on 25 February and reinforced this weekend show the promoters of this war that the price of their actions will be heavy, very heavy. The exclusion of Russian banks from the SWIFT financial system illustrates the isolation to which the Russian regime alone has condemned itself and to which it condemns its economy and its citizens. The entire assets of the Russian central bank were frozen during the night of Sunday to Monday, which represents very large sums. We also decided to block the assets placed abroad by Messrs. Putin and Lavrov and European airspace have been closed to Russian airlines. Finally, Russian disinformation channels, Sputnik and Russia Today, have been banned and several social networks have confirmed the closure of their accounts. These sanctions, decided in waves, have only one goal: to stop this invasion, to tell Ukraine that we are at its side. We won't lower the guard. Our thoughts go to the Ukrainian people, to those civilians who have to take up arms to fight against their invaders, to these torn families, to all those who are worried about their loved ones. Our thoughts are also directed to our French citizens in Ukraine and to the diplomatic staff of the Embassy of France, who remained to provide valuable support to our nationals. I also welcome our security forces and the GIGN team – the intervention group of the national gendarmerie – to ensure the security of the embassy as well as our armed forces mobilized within the framework of the Alliance in Eastern Europe. [[Caroline Abadie applauds]] Our friendship finally goes to those Russians, in France and in Russia itself, who demonstrate against this war that is not theirs, despite the risks. That the news of these last days serves as a lesson for those who may have been, or remain, complacent to this authoritarianism and seem to experience an unhealthy fascination for the immoderate use of force. The President of the Republic reminds us every day: we will never compromise with our democratic principles and values; they are the first condition of our freedoms; They are at the heart of what we are. [[Applause on the LaREM group benches and on a few benches of the Dem group]] To those who claim that the tireless search for a demanding dialogue with Russia would be proof of a certain naivety, I say how diplomacy is also the way of pragmatism. It was often the same people who refused to see the destabilization of our democracies and the manipulation of information orchestrated from abroad. These are the same ones that I doubt about the vote in the Security Council: what would they have done, those aligned yesterday? I would like to recall the method of our country and our Government. As early as May 2017, the President of the Republic had received President Putin in Versailles. He had wanted to be extremely clear, to recall France's values, without compromise, without weakness. It is an approach that already consisted of saying things to one another, reminding us of our commitment to Ukraine's sovereignty in particular. Since then, on the occasion of the war in Syria or the G7 in Biarritz, relations have been constant; firmness, too. On 7 February, the President of the Republic went to Moscow for discussions of the last chance. Since then, the Ukrainian President has appealed to France as a partner and as an intermediary, and the exchanges have not ceased. France has chosen a position that honors it, both by standing alongside the Ukrainians and by facilitating dialogue, where necessary and possible, with the Russians. We must demonstrate a firm resolution in order to respond to this attack on peace and stability in Europe led by Russia with the guilty complicity of Belarus. We know that this war will last and leave traces. We know that the sanctions we adopt will have serious consequences for our own economies, for the lives of our fellow citizens, for our most basic habits. Prices of some raw materials will be affected, as will energy prices, although the increase is much more contained than in other countries. Our economy is strong, it is preparing for it, but it will need support measures. Prime Minister, we acknowledge the commitments you have made to us to build a resilience plan for our farmers, to secure our sectors and to move forward in the construction of price shields at national and European level. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] This crisis, which is taking place at our doorstep, shows more than ever that there is an urgent need for genuine economic and strategic sovereignty. While some laughed under cape at the speech delivered by the President of the Republic at the Sorbonne in 2017, the dramatic situation we are experiencing only strengthens our conviction: our European sovereignty must be complete and unwavering. [[Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas applauds]] [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] In terms of energy, agriculture, industry, technology and military, we must build a sovereign future. We have already made a clear commitment, and at the military level, the programming law draws this army of tomorrow, but we must continue our efforts. The realization of this sovereignty project is a guarantee of our freedom and future independence in a world that seems increasingly to favour the logic of confrontation rather than cooperation. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of this, it is tragic times that we are living in. Let us show determination and confidence in our values, the values that form our Republic and are confused with the freedom of peoples. Let us move on to the necessary independence of the European Union, strengthen our military, strategic, economic and energy sovereignty! The European meetings of the French Presidency of the European Union are a unique opportunity. It's up to us to take it collectively. [[Members of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups stand up and applaud. – Olivier Faure also applauds]] Our heart is with Ukrainians fighting. We are at a turning point in history, it is up to us to live up to the stakes: ia oukrainets!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u66	The Walkers are leaving! What a disrespect for the following speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u67	Mr Damien Abad has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u68	By taking the unilateral decision to invade Ukraine, Vladimir Putin has just engaged the European continent in an era of uncertainty and to break peace, prosperity, stability and security in Europe. Of course, whether it was in the former Yugoslavia, Georgia, Donbass or Nagorny Karabakh, the warning signs were there, but now it is the war that is back in Europe with the deployment of tanks, combat aircraft, ground forces and fanatic troops from Chechnya. [[Applause on all benches]] Just as we are debating in the National Assembly, the Kiev TV tower has just been bombed. Of course, all our thoughts are now focused on the Ukrainian people and their President Zelensky, who are showing exemplary courage. I am also thinking of our French compatriots who live in Ukraine, who are sometimes blocked in fear and waiting, in the anguish of the Russian bombings. The heroic resistance of Ukrainian civilians recalls that of the 19th century Poles against the Russian imperial power, or that of the brothers of the forest of Lithuania against Stalin's killers. If Vladimir Putin constantly uses the pretext of history to justify his action in Ukraine, we too know our history, we too know the price of blood and we know what it costs to abandon the people. That is why we will not abandon the Ukrainian people, that is why we are at their side, as we have always been at the side of the oppressed peoples, with one obsession: peace now, peace always and peace together. France, a power of balance, a country of human rights, a soldier of the ideal, must have a singular place in order to achieve this objective of peace and stability in Europe. This was the case with Nicolas Sarkozy when he managed to end the conflict between Georgia and Russia. His leadership, authority, composure and sense of negotiation have helped to preserve this fragile peace in Europe, and these are the same qualities we need in France and Europe to emerge from the war in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u69	It's good, we've got them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u70	Peace is not negotiated by playing on emotion or throwing oil on fire with words going-in-war. Peace is negotiated only in a collective and concerted manner, offering its interlocutors a clear and mutually acceptable way out. Our only goal must be the return to peace. This is not an easy thing, as our multilateral institutions are ageing and inefficient France must take initiatives to build the new multilateralism of the twenty-first century. [[Applause on the benches of groups LR, LaREM, Dem. – Mr. Adrien Quatennens also applauds]] Nor is it an easy thing as our democracies are often shaken, but also challenged by these authoritarian regimes where power is in the hands of one man. Some, including among the candidates in the French presidential election, even feel a sort of fascination with these regimes. For my part, I say to you, whether they are Russian, Turkish, Chinese, Cuban or Venezuelan, I have no fascination with these authoritarian regimes. The only regime that fascinates us is democracy with its ideal of freedom, equality and respect for human rights! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM and Dem groups – Mr Adrien Quatennens raises his arms to the sky]] [[Vif applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So yes, I accuse Mr Zemmour, Mrs Le Pen and Mr Mélenchon of having maintained an unhealthy fascination with Putin's model, I accuse them of having behaved more than ambiguously towards the Russian power and I accuse them of compromises that cast irreversible discredit on their ability to lead the country. And I ask a simple question: how did they vote in the Security Council last Saturday? Would they have abstained like China, or would they have done like their MEPs of the National Rally or Zemmurists who, in the European Parliament, voted against economic aid for Ukraine? Shame on them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u71	That's the truth!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u72	When you're a presidential candidate, you defend democracy, you stand up against the autocrats! When you are a presidential candidate, you are free and independent of foreign financial interference.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u73	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u74	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the LaREM group]] When you are a presidential candidate, you are not meant to make France a country that is aligned with Russian interests. And when you're a presidential candidate, you don't admire Vladimir Putin's Russian patriotism, but you unreservedly condemn Russian imperialism in Crimea as well as Ukraine! That is why we do not need a French Putin, but a Gaullist presidency! That is also why we have a duty to build a strong France alongside our allies and a strong Europe. All of us Europeans no longer have the right to weakness or naivety. Yes, Europe must make the choice of power. A powerful Europe is a Europe capable of making its own decisions and applying them without ever going through the American big brother. It is a Europe that emerges from the sterile debate between the national army and the European army and combines strong national defences within a solid European alliance, because there is no freedom without sovereignty, there is no power without independence: these are the conditions for our credibility for the future. Yes, the world has changed for us Europeans, and it is up to France to be one of the drivers of this change. NATO's role must also be redefined. Too often, its enlargement could be experienced as a provocation by Russia, too often misunderstandings, unsaid ones have been able to vitiate relations between Americans and Russians since the fall of the USSR in 1991. As Albert Camus said, "peace is the only fight worth conducting." Members of the Republican Group call for a major conference on security in Europe with the Russians, the European Union and the support of the Americans, and for a major emergency plan to be adopted, so that the voice of peace is always stronger than the voice of arms. First, of course, we call for an immediate ceasefire, as well as the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. The talks between Russia and Ukraine must intensify and everything must be done by France and Europe to find a diplomatic solution to this war before it becomes a large-scale human tragedy. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Adrien Quatennens also applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mr. Erwan Balanant also applauds]] We must also welcome and protect Ukrainian refugees in Europe: more than 500,000 people have fled their homes in Ukraine. I would like to pay tribute here to Poland, Romania and also Hungary, which have shown exemplary solidarity, and I hope that they will be given all the assistance they need to allow them to receive refugees with dignity. And I also say that it is the honour of France to welcome Ukrainian refugees in the name of the right of asylum and the protection of persecuted peoples. On the other hand, it is Mr Zemmour's shame to reinvent a Maginot line against war refugees. We also call for France to ensure that the financial aid paid to Ukraine is traceable so that it does not fall into the hands of Russian oligarchs. We also hope that there will be a timetable, a follow-up of the delivery of arms promised by the European Union, so that they can be used wisely and in favour of peace in Ukraine. We call for an active protection strategy in the face of Russian military progress. I am thinking of Moldova, Poland, Finland, Romania, but also the three Baltic States. We must avoid invasion everywhere, and above all we must ensure peace for our partner countries, the brotherly countries and the border countries of Russia and Ukraine. We also welcome the economic sanctions decided by the European Union against Russia, but also against Belarus, which is complicit in this invasion in Ukraine and which we must not forget, as it has contributed to the war. Those sanctions, which are known to be of random effectiveness, are unfortunately indispensable for strong and credible diplomatic action. In this regard, we want to emphasize two major aspects. First, there is a need for strong sanctions against Russian oligarchs. We must not have the hand that trembles, we must not hesitate to strike Russian power in the portfolio by freezing the assets of Russian oligarchs and confiscating their real estate, yachts and luxury vehicles. Secondly, we must ensure that the cost of sanctions against Russia is much higher than the price to be paid for the French and Europeans: France cannot be the turkey of farce, with sanctions that would seriously penalise its strengths – I am of course thinking of agri-food – while other countries would refuse these same sanctions in key sectors such as energy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u75	It's important!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u76	We also call for the restoration of the food and energy sovereignty that is so lacking. In order to do so, we need a comprehensive picture of our strategic resources both at national and European level, but also that measures be taken accordingly in terms of supply. I am of course thinking of our cereal stocks – especially wheat – the LNG market, the gas stocks available and the stocks of key metals – especially titanium for aeronautics. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] From now on, in the face of rising energy and food prices, we want and ask you, Prime Minister, to protect our farmers and our industries and to preserve the purchasing power of the French in the context of this war in Ukraine. Let us never forget that when a wheat field dies on the lands of the Beauce, a wheat field flourishes in the Don region, only when a nuclear power plant closes in France, a Russian gas pipeline is set up.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u77	That's the reality!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u78	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] That is why it is time to leave this policy of permanent zigzags in order to return to the path of genuine energy independence, which obviously involves the immediate revival of the civil nuclear programme. Finally, Members of the Republican Group, like Jean-Louis Thiériot and François Cornut-Gentille, have already had the opportunity to say so, that a massive investment effort should be made in defence in order to guarantee our strategic autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u79	1.7 billion euros! It's done! We have to follow! We didn't wait for Mr. Thiériot!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u80	We also hope that a standing committee on cyberattacks targeting France will be set up in Parliament. More broadly, we need to strengthen our efforts in this area, move towards defence autonomy and build a European defence pillar, in a context where the United States is increasingly turning to the Pacific. In conclusion, I mean that I feel like a huge waste when I see what has become of our relationship with Russia. This country, which is a bridge between East and West, should have become a strategic partner of Europeans for trade, energy and security. Unfortunately, Russia is now turning its back on its roots, those of Europe, in favour of China. What if Russia, colossal with clay feet, has its hands free to invade Ukraine, while what will the Chinese giant decide tomorrow against Taiwan? Ladies and gentlemen, Marshal Foch said that people stop living when they stop remembering. I was 9 years old when the Berlin Wall collapsed in front of the baffled eyes of the whole world. This image, like every one of you, I still have in mind, and it was a turning point in our history. Today, we must do everything we can to prevent history from coming back like a boomerang and disrupting our certainty acquired over the past thirty years. [[Members of the LR Group rise and applaud, as does Mr Hervé Berville. – Several Members of the LaREM Group and some Members of the Dem Group also applaud]] Every historical crisis is a turning point from which the worst can arise, but also, we hope, the best. History looks at us, it will judge us on fidelity to our principles, the defence of our values and the strength of our actions. So yes, we who are deputies of the nation, let us show responsibility and harmony so that peace can live in Ukraine, in Europe and in the world, so that the Republic can live and that France can live!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u81	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u82	The meeting was resumed. Mr Olivier Faure has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u83	Like previous speakers, I will address my first words to the Ukrainian and Russian peoples, who are drawn into the folly of a man. For the past six days, our hearts have been beating in unison those of Ukrainians who take up arms to defend their freedom, and also those of Russians who brave banishment and censorship to refuse war. For the first time since the end of the Second World War, one European State has attacked another and has been waging peace on our Old Continent. By implementing a long-prepared plan, Vladimir Putin alone bears responsibility for this aggression. He will have to account for this as war crimes committed since last Thursday. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] Here we need to be clear: there is an aggressor and an attacker in this war. No confusion is possible, no justification is admissible to excuse or mitigate the liability for this invasion. No, even the prospect of an independent country joining NATO would in no way mean its annexation by the United States.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u84	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u85	France is a member of NATO, but it has not been annexed. We are faced with the disinhibited will of power of the Kremlin boss, which translates into expansionism directly at its borders and the extension of its influence to the Middle East, the Mediterranean basin and Africa. Chechnya, Georgia, Crimea, Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic and now Mali: everywhere, we find traces of the Russian army or mercenaries of the Wagner group. [[Applause on the SOC benches]] So we had to react. Imperial aspirations have no limits but those imposed upon them. Vladimir Putin is looking for the limits, it is up to us to set them. Ukraine is a sovereign State, a democracy, a European country. It is his accession to the European Union that President Zelensky is seeking and not his accession to NATO. I therefore hope, like the members of my group and many others here, that Ukraine will one day become our twenty-eighth star. [[Applause on many SOC benches]] The search for a political solution must of course remain our priority. We must always prefer peace to war. The channels of dialogue must of course be open, but there is no discussion possible without the prior creation of a balance of power: we do not discuss our hands in the air with a revolver on the temple! Our objective is not the humiliation of Russia, but respect for Ukraine's independence. In this asymmetric war, Vladimir Putin must be forced to peace. Europe has taken on its responsibilities as never before. We are pleased that it has decided on economic sanctions and the delivery of relief and military equipment, and we now expect it to be at the reception meeting for refugees. Failure to assist European democracy at risk is no longer an option. Vladimir Putin has at least succeeded in this: to enable Europe to become aware of itself, of its vulnerability in disunity and of its strength in unity. But we will have to go beyond these immediate answers because we are facing a world that has become more dangerous, that of the powers. Europe itself must become a military and strategic power.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u87	From this point of view, the unilateral, diplomatic and military disarmament of Europe and France is no longer possible. Our colleagues Thiériot and Mirallès alert us in their report by giving figures that raise fears of a risk of strategic downgrading. We must commit a global rearmament to remain masters of our destiny. The relaunch of the European defence project is essential.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u88	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u89	[[Guillaume Garot and Valérie Rabault applaud]] The lines are finally moving with our most reluctant partners. In this regard, we should welcome the movement initiated by the new German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and his majority. In the coming years, no goal will be achieved by a single country; We are calling for a recasting of the European project and the advent of a Europe of power. The return of war between European states teaches once again to the peoples, as Albert Camus could have written, that the bacillus of plague, like that of war, does not die or disappear and that it can always come to awaken a happy city. [[Applause on the SOC benches and on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Our duty is to prepare us for the worst so that it never happens. This lesson is unfortunately imperishable. It is timely and also the condition of our freedom. Today, his flag is yellow and blue. Long live Ukraine, live Europe, live the Republic and live France!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u90	Mrs Anne Genetet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u91	"We, the peoples of the United Nations, determined to save future generations from the scourge of war which twice in the space of human life has inflicted untold suffering on humanity, to reaffirm our faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women, as well as of nations large and small, to create the conditions necessary for the maintenance of justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law... have decided to combine our efforts to achieve these purposes". These are the first words that open the preamble to the Charter of the United Nations, a charter flouted by one of its most eminent representatives, a permanent member of the Security Council: the Russian Federation. Like many of you, my generation has clinged to the hope that the European continent will never again experience war, for itself, and for its succeeding generations. Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the United Nations, warned us: "Peace is a suspended dream. » The circumstances are serious. They call on all of us for cold blood, restraint, humility, but also for respect and admiration for the Ukrainians and their president Volodymyr Zelensky, who bravely fight to defend their country against a cousin nation, who has become an aggressor, invader and now a executioner. Ukraine is a friendly country of France. We're there – what am I saying? – we had a beautiful community, companies, a beautiful school – the Anne school in Kiev – and dynamic French alliances. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, SOC, Agir ens, UDI-I and LT]] We also have a very effective embassy. I believe I can associate the entire national representation with the warm greetings I extend to our ambassador, Etienne de Poncins, as well as to his team and our agents. Thank you for them. Together, they do an admirable job of informing and supporting our citizens on the spot. I salute the exceptional courage of these men and women who work under difficult conditions and are still on their way to Lviv. Ladies and gentlemen, let us never again have the hand that trembles when we vote on the budgets of the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs: our diplomats honour our values. Today, in Lviv, they are close to our fellow Ukrainians and friends in this ordeal. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I address a fraternal thought to our Ukrainian parliamentary colleagues – this new generation elected in 2019, made up of many brilliant young people and women, polyglots and lovers of Europe. I met them again last July in Kyiv. Some are weapons in hand, ready for the ultimate sacrifice to defend their parents, their children, their land, their culture, their homeland. We don't forget them. I also have a warm thought for the French in Russia and Belarus. This tragedy and the necessary sanctions that have been decided will have an irremediable effect on the course of their lives. I would like to assure them of the full support of France, starting with all of us here. We don't forget them. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I salute all those who, beyond the borders of Ukraine, have not hesitated to publicly demonstrate their disapproval, incomprehension and anger, in particular the athletes, artists, academics and citizens of Russia and Belarus who, despite the misinformation carried out by their respective States, risk their freedom to denounce a war they do not want. We don't forget them. Let us go back to the absurdity of this conflict, which is based on a lie: the situation changed when, on 17 December, the Russian authorities unveiled two proposals for treaties to the United States and NATO. They have not done so with the intention of negotiating a new security architecture in Europe, because half of its army is not mobilised along its neighbour's border to discuss security or peace! It was a decoy, a blackmail, an ultimatum that was presented to us. The terms were as follows: NATO had to commit itself to halting any enlargement to the East; NATO members had to withdraw their forces from the territories that had joined them since 1997; NATO members had to commit themselves not to deploying forces on the ground of non-members of the Russian Border Alliance, which obviously includes Ukraine. Clearly, we were asked to abandon Eastern Europe. And what, after all, is important to Ukrainians, Estonians, Lithuanians, Moldovans, Romanians, Georgians and all the others! No matter what they think and what they want, what their fears and aspirations matter: none of this mattered to President Putin. These terms were obviously unacceptable. In this difficult context, the President of the Republic, Emmanuel Macron, in coordination with European and American leaders, has engaged tirelessly in a demanding dialogue with President Putin. A dialogue that he continues to conduct, towards and against everything, at the request of President Zelensky himself and in agreement with President Putin, who considers President Macron to be a quality interlocutor. This dialogue, the confidence that Ukraine places in it, and the attention - I cannot speak of respect - that the Russian Federation is paying to it honour France. Everything must be tried to initiate a de-escalation. Everything must be tried to find a diplomatic solution. Everything must be tried to get soothing and avoid a bloodbath, because that is what it is now about. Unfortunately, once again denying his own speech, the Russian President chose, on Thursday 24 February in the morning, to strike Ukraine to sow death there, affronting this geographically European country with qualifiers that mark the negation, the plan of erasure of this free, independent and sovereign country, the rejection of this democracy which he exonerates so much. For let us not be mistaken, ladies and gentlemen: the starting point of this situation has never been a supposed aggressive expansion of NATO, which would seek to encircle Russia, as President Putin and his aficionados in France repeat, some of which, I believe, are present here on our benches. First, because NATO is a defensive and non-aggressive alliance: it did not intervene in Georgia in 2008, nor in Syria in 2013 or Ukraine in 2014. It does not intervene in or participate in the current conflict. Secondly, because the decisions of the Alliance are taken unanimously. However, on the specific issue of Ukraine's accession to NATO, the priorities among the various members were very different. Finally, because Russia is no longer the priority of the United States, which wants to invest more in the Indo-Pacific. The starting point of this tragedy was never NATO. The starting point is an association agreement concluded between Ukraine and the European Union in 2013,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u92	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u93	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ... wanted by the Ukrainian people, who threw out its pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych, causing the anger of Moscow which, in retaliation, annexed Crimea and supported two separatist republics in the Donbass. The war took place because the Kremlin does not support the idea of Ukraine freeing itself from its grip and preferring it to the European Union. The war took place because Ukrainians, such as Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians, Moldovans, Romanians, Poles and so many other peoples who have lived under the banner of the Soviet Union do not trust Russia and have sought to protect themselves from it. The war took place because the Ukrainians aspired to democracy and freedom, and because after them the Russians and the Belarusians could have been tempted to ask themselves: "Why not us? " Today, President Putin has lost the war he has waged for twenty years: a war of influence, disinformation and destabilization, which seeks to undermine the fundamentals of our democracies and divide us. The consequences of this debacle are already felt in Europe: NATO has just regained a new breath by reviving its raison d'être. The European Union has shown that, in the face of adversity, it knows how to be united, solidarity and political, to act quickly and to strike hard. The President of the Republic recalled this in his message to Parliament last week: "Our Europe is not a consumer union, but this political project of citizens committed to common values and principles". Some Europeans, leading Germany, were also reluctant to see a Europe of defence. This brutal return of the tragic has really changed the situation. [[Ms. Stella Dupont applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups as well as on several benches of the SOC group]] Democracy and peace will not stand alone. The recent events affecting our continent demonstrate this: we will not be able to defend them alone. But together, in Europeans, we can face the challenges of the 21st century. Together, we can ensure a better future for future generations. Together, we can make the name of this ideal that unites us and unites us: freedom! Together, we must more than ever share the words of Robert Schuman, one of Europe's founding fathers: "world peace cannot be safeguarded without creative efforts commensurate with the dangers that threaten it". Long live free Ukraine, live the Republic and live France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u94	Mr Michel Herbillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u95	The President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, declared war on Ukraine by launching a large-scale military invasion. In these dark hours, our thoughts naturally go, with emotion, to the Ukrainian people and President Zelensky, as well as to the innocent women, men and children whose lives have broken and who show heroic resistance to the invader. They are fighting for their country, of course, but also, in a way, for us, for our values, for democracy and for freedom. We must give them our solidarity, our help and our support, because this humanitarian tragedy causes so many deaths, so many refugees and so much suffering. And we can also remind Vladimir Putin that we can conquer territory, but we never conquer a people. By deciding to declare a war on our continent, by invading a border country of the European Union, – Kiev is only 2,000 kilometers from Paris – and by making brutal force prevail over peace and law, Russia plunges us back into a situation that we thought was forever gone. It is our illusions of eternal peace in Europe that collapse before our eyes. This is a major historical turning point that we are witnessing and facing. By its destructive act, by violating all the principles that underlie international law, Vladimir Putin took the responsibility to banish his country from nations and to make it bear the consequences of its actions. Massive and necessary sanctions have been imposed against Russia. The Europeans have, for once, reacted quickly and unanimously, going so far as to question, for some, the diplomatic and military doctrine that they have been promoting for decades: even Sweden, Finland and Germany will deliver weapons to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u96	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u97	The European Union will finance the delivery of lethal weapons to the tune of EUR 450 million. Many Russian banks are banned from the SWIFT interbank platform. The European airspace is closed to Russian airlines. Russian propaganda media RT and Sputnik are now banned. Taboos are falling. The European surge is impressive: the European Union finally gives itself the means to behave as a real geopolitical power. That being said, although massive and strong, these sanctions are also indicative of our collective impotence to stop the course of events immediately. We cannot, of course, repeat the story, but we can still regret that we have not been able to tie Russia to Europe after the fall of the USSR. We can also regret – was it naivety? Out of impotence? – to have allowed Vladimir Putin to commit numerous acts of war ahead, the decisive action of Nicolas Sarkozy during the Georgian crisis in 2008 being a notable exception. The invasion of Crimea and Donbass in 2014, the Minsk agreements not respected for eight years, the autocratic drift of Belarus, now co-belligerent, should have prompted the European Union to react, to organize its own collective security and to strengthen its defence capabilities, because the war that is now raging in Ukraine has been meticulously prepared by Vladimir Putin. So yes, this war and the sanctions we are taking against Russia will have economic consequences for France and will have an impact on the daily lives of the French, on our energy supply, on our farmers, our farmers and our grain producers, on our industry, on aeronautics, transport and on French companies present in Russia – France is indeed the first foreign employer in the country. It is therefore probably necessary to calibrate the sanctions as best as possible, to assess the consequences for France and to provide targeted aid to support the most affected sectors and to preserve the purchasing power of the French. We must also ask ourselves collectively about our efforts and the price we are willing to pay to contain Vladimir Putin's will to rebuild his area of influence. For it is our freedoms, our democracies and our values that are tested and challenged by this war. In the face of this situation, France, European countries and, more broadly, Westerners must resist. We Europeans must finally stop the incantations and form our own system of collective security, strengthen our autonomous defence capabilities and regain our sovereignty and independence in strategic sectors such as energy, agriculture, food and health.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u98	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u99	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group, on several benches of the LaREM group and on some benches of the Dem and LT groups]] More than ever, we need a strong European project, a united Europe that regains its power and that does not hesitate to affirm it in order to meet the pressing challenge facing us: the maintenance of peace and, first, the achievement of an immediate ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine. France, which has a unique voice on the international stage, will continue to bear this demand for peace, freedom and democracy and to work tirelessly to guarantee them on our continent and in the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u100	Mrs Delphine Bagarry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u101	In the preamble, I wish to share the messages I received from Oksanna, who, taped in the damp and icy basement of his building in Kharkov, hopes to flee soon with his six-year-old son to join us in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. "They're shooting. "I'm scared. "Call me back, please. "We're sitting in the basement and hearing shots again. Looks like the tanks are passing. "Strikes. Hidden in the bathroom. "You have no idea how it is here. I can't put words. "Lord, help us. "It's very strong, very scary. Hide your head under the cover. "We're all here. No one sleeps – only children. "I shudder with every noise and rust. "It pulls a lot. I feel bad about my throat and temperature. I'm going to sleep, don't be afraid. » This time, war is in Europe and not elsewhere. We are touched by these stories that say the indescribable, the coldest horror. [[Ms. Delphine Batho, Ms. Stella Dupont and Mr. Cédric Villani applaud]] Ukraine has been subjected to a brutal and premeditated attack in disregard of the fundamental rules of our international law and the essential rights of the Ukrainian people whose resistance and courage arouse our admiration. Freedom, this fundamental right, is the condition of democracies, the heart of the European project, an area of freedom and prosperity. The war launched by the Russian Federation is being waged on the Ukrainian fronts but also against – and within – the European Union. The Member States did not make a mistake: an insufficient response would be a great danger for our democracies. The economic, financial and energy costs of sanctions will inevitably affect us. But it is a price to pay for Europe's dignity. It is the price to pay to meet the aspirations of the Ukrainian people that affirms their thirst for freedom by expressing a demand for integration into the European Union, to which we will have to respond favourably. To say yes to Ukraine's entry into the European Union is to affirm that freedom and democracy are essential and cannot be attacked. Unity, solidarity, freedom. These principles must firmly guide all actions undertaken to stop the war against democracy when a dictator tramples on essential human rights. The European Union's response is the massive support – financial and material – to the resistance of the Ukrainian armed forces when, every day, the courage of Ukrainian fighters forces us. However, how can we prevent the bombing of civilian populations and strategic infrastructure? Russia will have to be prevented from having exclusive control of airspace. Should we finally consider a no-fly zone over Ukraine? Unity, solidarity, freedom. If the Russian government has to bear its irresponsibility before history, it is up to us to shoulder our responsibility by being on the side of the oppressed. For the price of war is also an exodus of civilian populations. If the response is to be international, with the creation of humanitarian corridors to allow civilian populations to leave besieged cities, it must also be European. France, in particular, must embody solidarity for these people in exile. This must be reflected in the support given to the border countries, which carry out their humanitarian duty of first resort, but also in the active reception of refugees. Children, women and men deprived of their liberty must receive assistance and assistance. The citizens of France and the world are ready to do so: we will welcome, house, treat and comfort all the victims of this conflict. [[Applause on several benches of the Dem and LaREM groups. – Mrs Delphine Batho, Mr Hubert Julien-Laferrière and Mr Cédric Villani also applaud]] Unity, solidarity, freedom. If Ukraine's victory, which we call for, is necessarily military and political, it must also be moral. It must remind Western democracies of their humanist foundations and their commitments to the admirable peoples who are fighting for freedom, for our freedom. So, for Oksanna and for all of us, live Ukraine, live the European Union and live the European Ukraine!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u102	I call Mr Pieyre-Alexandre Anglade.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u103	For almost a week, war has been raging in Ukraine, near us, at the heart of Europe – not at the gates of Europe as we still hear too often, but in Europe, at home, on our continent. Refusing the tense hand of diplomatic dialogue, Vladimir Putin led Russia into a fratricidal war. By attacking a democratic and peaceful country, he made a deliberate choice, that of inhumanity. At this point, fighting rages and Ukrainians struggle for their survival and freedom. It is an offensive of unheard of violence, a negation of the most essential humanitarian principles. Putin indiscriminately strikes civilian and military targets. For this war is total, brutal, massive. It is not targeted, as Russian propaganda seeks to make it believe. It is all Ukrainians – innocent children, women and men – who are victims of tanks, missiles and fire, or who are forced to flee their country by hundreds of thousands and in appalling conditions. Today, the Ukrainian people are a martyred people and the only one responsible for this martyr is in Moscow and is called Vladimir Putin. [[Patricia Mirallès applauds]] In the face of this situation, I would like first of all to express my solidarity with all those who suffer and to tell our Ukrainian friends that our thoughts are with them and that we will do our utmost to provide the resistance with the help it needs. Ukraine is under attack because it chose, with the Maidan revolution in 2014, to turn to Europe – not to NATO, as Russian propaganda relayed in France wants to make it believe but to the European Union. It is not attacked for what it does – it does not attack or threaten anyone – but for what it is: a free, democratic and open country that looks to Europe. In France, some would like to rewrite the history of this war, reverse the responsibilities to clear Mr Putin. They condemn in choir what is happening but continue to want to explain or justify the actions of the Russian tyrant on the pretext that Russia would feel threatened by the presence of NATO and the United States. In doing so, they put the aggressor and the aggressor on the same plane. In this conflict, however, only the facts matter: the United States did not annex Ukraine to NATO, it was Russia that invaded Ukraine. Ukraine is not in NATO, it is today the Russian bombs that fall on Ukrainian civilians. This war is an excuse and NATO is a false excuse. Others, often the same, call for a major conference on borders. However, in such a moment of war, borders should not be negotiated but strengthened and assured. The territorial integrity of Ukraine is not being negotiated. Others – often the same, again – oppose aid to Ukraine and arms deliveries, they say, "in the name of peace." However, refusing to help Ukraine defend itself is not to promote peace – and they know it well – but to abandon Ukraine in the hands of Putin, endangering all the security of Europe. That is the reality of what they propose with such speeches. As we understand it, Ukraine is a target because it resembles us, because it believes in liberal democracy, respecting the individual, minorities and fundamental rights. In essence, it is a war against what underpins our identity as Europeans. The citizens of Europe have understood this perfectly. From Paris to Berlin, from Prague to Amsterdam, a human tide of hundreds of thousands of people rushed into the streets this weekend to shout his anger. The European people, some of whom still deny existence, said no to the war. Let us also salute the courage of those who march in Russia, despite the risks they face. There's a lot more of them than we think. This war is not theirs but that of a man blinded by his will of power and by his stubborn refusal of democracy. In these singular moments, everyone felt the turning point of the story that we were living. We know that our common future is now determined, as is our ability, as Europeans, to make our model live in this century. We understand that if we are not able to resist now, then we will lose everything we have built: freedom, peace and security for generations to come in Europe. Putin not only wants to remove Ukraine from the map, but also to redefine the security order on our continent in its own way. This moment of change, the European leaders have seized it. Where Putin hoped for division, he found a united front. Where he thought Europe was dislocating, he saw it growing stronger as never before. In the face of this war, in this emergency situation, we must act decisively. This is what the French government is doing with its European partners by taking harsh sanctions and supporting the Ukrainian resistance. In the space of a weekend, Russia has been banished by the international community: disconnected from the international payment system, prevented from converting its reserves into foreign currency, deprived of products essential to its economy, its banned public or private European sky planes, Putin and its sanctioned oligarchs. The objective is clear: to isolate Russia and weaken its ability to finance this war. Pressure must also be exerted on Russia's allies, in particular on the dictator of Belarus Lukashenko, who takes an active part in this war and continues to repress his people, who also manifest themselves for the freedom of the Ukrainian people. This strategy of isolation, we must also lead it in the field of information and communication. We Europeans have been too naive and lenient with the mass propaganda and disinformation bodies RT and Sputnik. Their banishment from European territory is now the only solution. It is no longer acceptable, in a war context, to see them pour out their propaganda and undermine the foundations of European democratic and public debate. To support Ukraine is also to listen to what President Zelensky is asking us – in this case, aid and weapons to defend his country and protect its people. The Europeans have heard it. It is the concrete and immediate translation of the union of Europeans with the Ukrainian people and the affirmation of Europe's power that we defend. But beyond the military dimension, there is a humanitarian situation to be addressed. Europe is experiencing a massive exodus, one of the largest since the end of the Second World War. In recent days, nearly 700000 Ukrainians have left their country to join the European Union. Millions more are on the roads. All are the victims of Putin's cynicism and his allies. All must know that they are welcome in Europe and that they will be welcomed. Our most basic duty is to save and protect these men, women and children who have lived – and are fleeing – the hell from Russian bombs. Finally, to support Ukraine is to recognize the European aspiration of its people. President Zelensky signed a document yesterday calling for his country to become a candidate for membership of the European Union. The European Parliament supported this will in a resolution. I share that position. Working, as Europeans, to grant this status does not mean that Ukraine will join the European Union tomorrow, because this requires a long process. But this means very clearly that Ukraine's future lies within the European family. This is the message that the Ukrainians wrote to us in letters of fire, in their fierce and heroic struggle for freedom. This dreadful conflict finally reveals the need to strengthen Europe so that it becomes a sovereign power, independent and capable of defending its peoples and values. And we are already seeing that, forced by events, Europeans have acted in this direction at an extraordinary speed. Who could have believed, only a week ago, that the European Union would become a military power capable of developing a strategic unit? That countries, like our German neighbour, would radically change their position on defence issues? The European Union is waking up, we are experiencing a revolution of power. Finally, Europe's sovereignty will also be won by its energy independence. If we want to be fully sovereign, then we can no longer depend on extra-European supplies, Russian gas or fossil fuels coming from the end of the world. We must complete this energy revolution, first in the context of the fight for the climate, then in the interests of Europe's security and independence. We still do not know what will be the outcome of this odious war. However, it is certain that we are no longer in the world before. In the hours and days ahead, everything will depend on Ukraine's resistance, but also on our ability, as Europeans, to continue to stand against a united front. Yes, defending our democratic values at a price – already high. Ukrainians pay him in bombs and deaths among civilians; We may have to pay it economically. However, if we are not ready to pay this price now in the name of Ukraine's sovereignty, the values that underpin our Europe and the European ideal, then it is future generations that will have to pay an infinitely higher price: that of division and perhaps war in Europe. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups as well as on a few benches of the LR group]] It is time to support the Ukrainian people and President Zelensky, whose valour arouses the admiration of the whole world. He asked today that we not abandon Ukraine. Let him know, if he listens to us, that we are at his side, alongside the Ukrainian people. The future of Europe and Ukraine will come together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u104	Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u105	[[Smile]] The mailman always rings twice. I'm not a mailman, but this afternoon I'm talking twice. I won't repeat what I said earlier. Everything has been said, and well said, by all colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u106	[[Applause on all benches]] [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I would now like, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to make some clarifications in conclusion of this debate, but not without first paying tribute to Marielle de Sarnez. Those who know French politics know that MODEM chose the orange colour for its logo because Marielle, present in the first months of the Ukrainian revolution alongside freedom, had returned deeply transformed and mobilized, convinced that Ukraine now had its full place at our side. As always, Marielle had the gift of seeing things before others, what is called the gift of double sight. And we remained faithful to his mission. I imagine that she would have been her reaction and speech to the situation that is ours today. [[Same moves. – Mr Didier Quentin also applauds]] I would then like to say that I was particularly pleased not only as a French citizen, not only as a member of this House, but also as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to see the extraordinary convergence of views, sensitivities and reactions of most of my colleagues in this House. A group chairman once told me: "It seems that in the Committee on Foreign Affairs it is a small paradise. And that's true because we've always made convergence logic prevail. We have, of course, our political disagreements, but we have always given priority to a certain idea of man, a certain idea of peace, a certain idea of freedom and rights, and it is pleased to see that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is not an isolate in this House – something that I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the questions to the Government might lead us to believe. Nevertheless, it was possible to measure through all the exchanges that took place in this debate that there was a profound convergence of views. And believe me, it is essential for the future of France, for its international authority, for its influence and for the contribution it can thus make, alongside other Europeans and all allies, to the preservation, defence and promotion of a free and independent Ukraine. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of this House to what we have experienced directly in the committee, and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, the incredible accumulation of major transformations and challenges over the last ten months: first of all, the IPCC report, which has shown the absolute urgency of meeting the climate challenge by changing the logic of approaches to this problem completely; Then, the retreat from Afghanistan turning into a debacle, illustrating how much our values were threatened and our precarious situation, and how much we had to unite; Then it was the AUKUS, this new alliance between Australia, the United Kingdom and the United States, which revealed a misunderstanding between the latter and France, which had to be resolved; Finally, there is, of course, Ukraine, which underlines the need for a profound transformation of our peoples, of France and the rest of Europe, and of the Atlantic Alliance, in order to take account of our new responsibilities. We must work there and think about tomorrow's Europe. This means no longer refusing to look Europe in the face, as if it were like the sun or death that we cannot contemplate. The consequences must be drawn from this, such as those of Atlantic security, which requires successful NATO reform. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups. – Mr. Michel Herbillon also applauds]] These are the lessons we are drawing from the latest developments in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u107	The Chair of the Committee on National Defence and the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u108	Today's debate was clearly necessary, first and foremost in order to express our solidarity with the Ukrainian people and to pay tribute to their courage, their fierce will to defend their homeland and to fight for their freedom in an extremely unequal but necessary struggle, at a time when misinformation is more than ever a weapon, in order to give clarity to the political support that national representation brings to the Government in a trial that Europe never thought would come to. Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a turning point in the history of international relations in the post-cold-war period because it reintroduces into Europe the open war between states, a type of conflict that some believed to be permanently placed in the museum of history, and Russia thus poses a major challenge to the architecture of security in Europe and to all its democratic values. For this war is not only a war against Ukraine: it is a war against all democracies. As such, it concerns us all, not only by virtue of solidarity for a bruised nation, but also in order to safeguard our own identity. We all became Ukrainians. [[Antoine Herth applauds]] Were our reactions up to the stakes? In accordance with our values, all alternatives to the conflict have been sought, those of dialogue and diplomacy that must continue, as evidenced by the many interventions and initiatives of the President of the Republic. Vladimir Putin made the conscious choice of war against peace, that of predation against negotiation. The scale and speed of international condemnations must then be stressed. All NATO member countries have coordinated to strengthen their strategic posture through the intensification of reinsurance measures in Eastern Europe, to which France is making a significant contribution; and I welcome the commitment of our military in Estonia, Romania and the Polish skies. Secondly, massive political, economic and financial sanctions were adopted. Such sanctions had never been imposed on a country, a fortiori in such a short period of time. Russia is now isolated and weakened on the international stage: this is Vladimir Putin's first defeat. Are these reactions sufficient? The fighting is expected to last and the Ukrainian people are not done with the trials. But now he can count on Europe's strategic awakening. The defence questions and the means to be devoted to them have regained in the European consciousness the eminent place which our community of destiny demands and which the President of the Republic called for in his wishes when presenting the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union "to move from a Europe of cooperation within our borders to a Europe which is powerful in the world, fully sovereign, free of its choices and master of its destiny", wishes which take here and now, more than ever, their full meaning. France has been providing it for a long time, and even more so because of the President of the Republic's desire to present a bill on military programming for repair and modernization that we have voted for, a text that is in radical rupture with past format reductions, let us not forget. And our European partners are now committed to this vision: a consensus has emerged that the European Union should use the European Peace Facility to finance the delivery of lethal weapons to the tune of EUR 500 million. Another symbol: Chancellor Olaf Scholz has just decided to spend EUR 100 billion on the modernisation of the German army. Europe's geopolitical revolution is also being seen by all as a recognition of the need to consolidate a strong European defence industrial and technological base. Common capacity-building projects, as well as the European Union's normative excellence, must facilitate this necessary consolidation. [[Applause on many benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Let me conclude by calling for the widest possible unity within the international community to defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, for the unity of our nation to ensure that, beyond the justifiable emotion in the face of the suffering of the Ukrainian people, France remains France, this shared promise of freedom and fraternity, far from the rise of extremes, and finally for unity within national representation, because political consensus is undoubtedly the first of the weapons to be used by democracies when they are targeted. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all responsible for this. We can do it. It obliges us.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u109	The Minister of the Armed Forces has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u110	This debate under Article 50, paragraph 1, of the Constitution honours our country because it marks the unity of your assembly, ladies and gentlemen, to testify to the Ukrainian people and their courageous leaders the friendship, solidarity and full support of the French people. Last Thursday, 24 February, Russia launched an illegal and massive attack on Ukraine; It has now been six days since the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian people fought with courage and heroism against the aggressor. I will not come back after the Prime Minister on what we have observed for weeks, that is, the gradual deployment of a massive military device along Ukraine's border and in Belarus under cover of military exercises, a device that Vladimir Putin undertook to withdraw after these exercises, and what he did not do despite all the diplomatic efforts made, first and foremost those of the Head of State. First of all, I would like to return to what we are observing thanks to our satellites, which allow us to have our own appreciation of the situation, which we are, of course, exchanging with our allies. At this time, the Russians are continuing their offensive on all fronts, whether in the south from Crimea, in the east from Donbass in support of separatist forces and in the north where Kiev is surrounded and ongoing strikes, knowing that the Russian forces are also maintaining a naval blockade in the Black Sea and the Azov Sea. First-day strikes have mainly targeted equipment as well as military and strategic infrastructure in order for Russia to gain air superiority, but today the situation is much more confused and information becomes difficult to verify. We have good reason to believe that the Ukrainian armed forces are resisting well by carrying out fierce fighting, and even better than the Russians had anticipated. This combativeness reflects the courage of a whole people who have risen up to defend their independence and values, which are also ours. I come to what we do in our national capacity and with our partners and allies. We are acting in two directions: to help the Ukrainians defend themselves while at the same time ensuring our own defence posture so that Russia understands what it would expose itself to if it attacked the Alliance. As you know, a direct commitment by both our forces and our allies to support the Ukrainian army against Russia is not an option because it would make us co-belligerents in this conflict. A country such as France can use force only if it is directly attacked or within the framework of alliances of which it is a member. However, we cannot stand by and let Ukraine's resistance be helpless in the face of an enemy determined to crush it in violation of all the rules of international law. That is why we have decided to respond to Ukraine's appeal and to deliver defence equipment. You will understand that I cannot give the details here. However, we are talking about protective equipment, fuel, missiles and ammunition. The national representation was informed in camera this morning of the details of this assistance. Europe is also fully committed to this. You have followed the announcement regarding the decision to deliver defence equipment to Ukraine for a value of 500 million euros. This is the first time that the European Peace Facility has been used since it was established last year. This is the result of months of effort, to which France took all its part, and I can tell you that all this did not arise spontaneously from Brussels offices: it is the realization of what was committed, under the impetus of the President of the Republic, as soon as the Sorbonne speech in September 2017. This is therefore a historic step for Europe which has been able to act quickly and forcefully. At the time of the French presidency of the European Union, we are determined to go even further to give Europe of defence all the tools it needs. Yesterday we decided, together with all European defence ministers, how to coordinate our bilateral aid to Ukraine. The European Union staff has been appointed to respond to Ukraine's demands for protective equipment, weapons and ammunition. The European Union will also be able to rely on a logistics hub in Poland. As you know, France is a major contributor to the security of its allies. Following Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, the Alliance's Heads of State and Government had agreed on the deployment of an enhanced advance presence in the Baltic States and Poland. The aim was to show any potential aggressor that the territory of the Baltic countries and Poland was well covered by the Alliance's guarantee. We have taken our part from the beginning, and we will continue to do so, but the situation created by the Russian aggression has led us to decide to strengthen these arrangements, not in the direction of escalation, but simply to defend and reassure our Eastern allies. The President of the Republic was very clear at the European Council last Thursday and at the Alliance Summit on Friday. We will therefore accelerate and strengthen the planned deployment of our fighter aircraft in the Baltic States – as early as mid-March four Mirage 2000, supported by about 100 aircraft will be deployed in Estonia – and, since 24 February, daily patrols of two Rafale and one refuelling aircraft are taking off from France. Its aircraft patrolled the airfields on the eastern flank of Europe. In addition, we are strengthening our arrangements in Estonia on an ad hoc basis: a mountain infantry company of 200 troops is joining the country to be deployed alongside our Danish and British allies. Finally, we accelerated the deployment of NATO assets in Romania, as proposed by the President of the Republic in January. The deployment of the first soldiers took place this weekend, and an upsurge is underway – with 500 soldiers and their armoured personnel – which will continue this week. In a second phase, we will be joined by allies, and we will play the role of a framework nation of a new NATO arrangement. Finally, I want to tell you what we are preparing for. The crisis that we are experiencing has suddenly made our public opinion aware that war is not a reality that boils down to asymmetrical conflicts in distant theatres. The invasion of Ukraine and the threats made by President Putin to us show that our security is directly involved in Europe For the Ministry of Armed Forces, this finding is not new: as early as 2017, the strategic preparatory work undertaken for our military programming law had allowed us to describe the return of power strategies and their consequences. The assumption of a major conflict in Europe has been fully taken into account in the drafting of the military programming law, which, as the President of the Republic has wished, is a law of re-enforcement. It gave rise to conceptual work on the concept of high-intensity conflict, which led us to ask three questions and, above all, to begin to answer them. First question: what is our credibility in the face of a powerful and determined aggressor? This is all at stake in the upsurge of our defence tool, which, after decades of underinvestment, is now making a reversal of trend in order to modernize our forces and secure a complete military model by 2030. Second question: what is our ability to act together with our allies and partners? Let us be clear, there are few assumptions in which France would be engaged alone in a high-intensity conflict. The measures I mentioned a moment ago show how our commitment to both the European Union and NATO is an essential component of our defence. For the past five years, we have grown the Europe of defence and, thanks to the mechanisms we have built, such as the European Facility for Peace, we are now able to react quickly and strongly to a new situation. The third question I will not answer is the level of resilience of our nation and its ability to cope with shocks. This is an essential element that we have addressed by building, for example, a capacity to overcome massive cyber attacks or attempts to paralyze our satellites. [[Applause on several benches. – Many Members of the LaREM and Dem groups rise to applaud]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are living a historic and historic moment for Ukraine, which struggles for its survival as a nation and for the values that all Europeans share, a historic moment also for Europe that must be up to date. Either Europe faces or it disappears. With the strong measures taken in the past few days in unity, we are facing up, and France will continue to play a leading role in this European action.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u111	The next speaker is the Minister Delegate to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for tourism, French nationals abroad and French-speaking countries, and the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Recovery, who is responsible for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u112	Let me first ask you to excuse Jean-Yves Le Drian, the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, who is in Poland today with his German and Polish counterparts to discuss the situation. In many ways, Vladimir Putin's war against Ukraine condenses into a new nightmare several decades of European nightmares. The Prime Minister mentioned Budapest, Prague, and Christophe Castaner recalled the horrendous events that took place seventy years ago: beyond these terrible echoes, Vladimir Putin's choice of war, which is a premeditated, deliberate, illegal, unjustifiable and irresponsible choice, is in fact a breach of all the principles and commitments that have enabled us to pull together, decade after decade, from the Charter of the United Nations to the Charter of Paris, through the Helsinki Final Act of 1975. In this sense, 24 February 2022 will remain in history, and in the light of history, as the day of a major regression for international law, for international life: the day when Russia returned to the primacy of the right over force by violating law by force, even though it is a member of the United Nations Security Council; the day when Russia wanted to destroy the sovereignty of a state, which goes against the very foundation of the international order built for seventy-five years, as President Bourlanges recalled, and the day when Russia, by launching a war against 44 million Ukrainians, displayed its contempt for the most fundamental human rights, the rights "to life, liberty, security of person" recognized by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. As the President of the Republic has said, this is a turning point. This turn called for a reaction without weakness. That is why France has acted in perfect unity with Europeans, with its allies. This unity is our greatest strength. United to try by diplomacy to chart a path of de-escalation, with the President of the Republic and with the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Europe, we have tried everything. I had to. The President of the Republic led a diplomatic effort fully coordinated with all our partners, but Vladimir Putin refused the voice of diplomacy. He did not fulfil the commitments he had made – as the Prime Minister recalled – and he did not honour Russia's signature: he therefore bears sole responsibility for his decision to start this war. At the request of the President of Ukraine, the President of the Republic maintains a channel of dialogue with Vladimir Putin, but this must not obey, it does not obey the firmness deployed. Unity, we also find it in the solidarity that manifests itself with Ukraine, solidarity in action. Florence Parly referred, at the moment, to the mobilisation of the European Peace Facility. I would like to mention the unprecedented economic aid of EUR 1.2 billion, but also humanitarian aid to Ukraine, for which the Ministry of Europe and Foreign Affairs is acting. France is mobilising EUR 100 million for the benefit of the victims of the conflict. A first shipment of 33 tons of material arrived at the Polish border. Today, two flights have transported 8 tons of medical cargo to Poland; Tomorrow, 40 tons will go to Moldova. I would like to announce to the Assembly that we have activated the FACECO system, the Fund for External Action of Local and Regional Authorities, which allows all the initiatives and contributions of local authorities to be united, because we have seen the momentum of generosity that has been growing throughout the country. This will be an opportunity to act together for the benefit of all the populations affected by the conflict. The humanitarian question leads us to mention that of the reception of Ukrainians forced to flee, that is to say to address, after the presidents Olivier Becht and Jean-Christophe Lagarde, the subject of refugees. The Minister of the Interior made announcements earlier so that we could gather all the initiatives at the local level – the prefects are responsible for collecting them. At the national level, we are mobilizing DIAIR, the interdepartmental delegation to the reception and integration of refugees. We have to live up to it. [[Applause on all benches]] Since we are talking about solidarity, it is de jure and de facto with regard to all our compatriots, all the French established outside France, all the French established in Ukraine. A mechanism remains in place to date; We still have an embassy on Ukrainian soil, which unfortunately is not the case for all countries. On this occasion, I would like to pay a strong tribute to the entire team that Ambassador Etienne de Poncins hosts. By their composure, their courage, their unwavering commitment, it honours the Republic. In total, about 100 men and women act for the benefit of the 1000 French nationals who are still there. The latter are located in Ukraine or in neighbouring countries where we have planned teams to receive them and collect them as soon as they cross the border. Our teams are also composed of women and men working at the crisis and support centre at the Quai d'Orsay, who are mobilized 24 hours a day and seven days a week. They constitute this thread, O how precious but sometimes fragile, which takes the form of a voice on the phone to guide, to assist, to respond to a pregnant woman who has pains so that we can do as much as possible to send an ambulance in connection with the local services. All this will obviously continue in order to accompany as closely as possible our compatriots, those who take the road like those who are, alas, still blocked. This solidarity is also expressed with regard to the French in Russia and Belarus. The crisis cell is activated and telephone responses must be able to help and accompany them, including when they choose to return. I was talking about unity, we must also insist on firmness. It translates into massive sanctions on which Olivier Dussopt will return in a moment. These are the harshest sanctions we have ever adopted, which was necessary in view of the totally illegal, unjustifiable and irresponsible nature of the Russian aggression. This firmness vis-à-vis Russia also lies in our efforts to isolate it on the international stage. Again, the challenge is to punish unacceptable behaviour by exerting maximum pressure. Last Friday, at the UN Security Council, a resolution condemning the invasion, sponsored by eighty-two states, was blocked by Russia, which opposed its veto, but it clearly obtained a majority of votes in favour and no state voted against it, except for Russia. The United Nations General Assembly will meet tomorrow to discuss a new draft resolution. I would also point out that Russia was suspended from the Council of Europe on Friday. Unity and firmness: Putin relied on a weak and powerless Europe, it was undoubtedly a mistake. We are certainly living a moment of trial for the Ukrainian people, a moment of trial for the Europeans and their allies, and a moment of trial for our nation. The President of the Republic said that this war will last. It will have consequences in our lives; The Government, under the authority of the Prime Minister, is preparing for this. [[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens and on some benches of the LR group]] The French know that we are living in a world of threats and upheavals. Together, without ever losing sight of our universal values, we have been able to cope with the shock of the terrorist attacks that hit us on our soil. Together, we have been able to cope with the global shock of the pandemic crisis with civicism. Together, we will be able to cope, in solidarity and with determination, with the shock of the return of war in Europe. I have no doubt about that for a moment in view of the debates we have had in this House today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u113	The next speaker is the Minister for Public Accounts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u114	I shall return to two points: firstly, the question of sanctions, and secondly, the consequences of this crisis on our economy, on growth and on our public finances. Sanctions were decided at European and international level: the United States had taken a number of sanctions in the previous weeks, and the Council of the European Union decided on four sets of sanctions, the last not later than yesterday, 28 February. These sanctions are important: they aim to prevent trade in and transit of a number of goods and the activities of operators and economic actors in Europe. They cover a total of 500 individuals or entities identified for their links with the Kremlin, but also for the importance of their activities often related to military or financing operations. We apply the sanctions as they are published. We have begun to freeze a number of assets, such as those of the central bank of Russia. At the European Union level, this represents several tens of billions of dollars that this bank will not be able to mobilise to defend the price of the rouble. We have also already carried out a number of boardings of Russian flag vessels or Russian owners affected by the sanctions. Every time the owners are affected by the sanctions regime, we monitor and immobilize the ships. [[Applause on many benches of the groups LaREM, Dem and Agir ens and on some benches of the LR group]] The very good coordination with our neighbours in the implementation of financial sanctions for the freezing of assets or assets deserves to be stressed. This is obviously the case with the Member States of the European Union, all of which are committed by the four sanctions packages, but it is also true with Switzerland and the Principality of Monaco, which have decided to transpose all the sanctions adopted by the Union, which is very important in order to facilitate cooperation between our services and their own, and thus to freeze them. Of course, we continue to conduct these operations and, as the regulations of the sanctions regime are published, we will apply them with the utmost firmness, but also with the utmost care, in accordance with the law, so that everything is perfectly secure. As a mirror of the sanctions imposed on Russia, I also wanted to mention the level of assistance we are providing to Ukraine. The Minister of the Armed Forces has indicated this, and I cannot go back to it: assistance is provided in the form of military equipment, for a total of 450 million euros. Another form of aid: at Community level, macro-economic assistance of EUR 1.2 billion has been decided by the Council of the Union. In addition, the President of the Republic indicated that, in addition to humanitarian aid for refugees and people, France would provide €300 million in aid to the Ukrainian government in order to accompany it in the crisis and the difficulties it is experiencing. All these decisions, including the sanctions regime, will obviously have consequences for our economy. We believe that the French economy is not the most exposed to disruptions in trade relations between the rest of the world and the Russian economy. To illustrate my point, I simply recall that in 2020 France's exports to Russia amounted to EUR 6.4 billion, which represents 1.3% of our total exports, while our imports from Russia amounted to EUR 9.7 billion, or 1.6% of our total imports, of which three quarters are energy products. At EU level, there are 90 billion euros in exports to Russia – 4% of the total – and 145 billion imports, three quarters of which also concern energy products. We pay close attention to the situation of a few particularly exposed companies in sectors such as automobiles, energy and financial services. More generally, the main sectors exposed to disruption or cessation of relations with the Russian economic fabric are transport equipment – 22% of our exports to Russia; chemicals, perfumery and cosmetics – 20%; pharmacy – 12%; and industrial and agricultural machinery – about 10%. The agri-food sector deserves special attention. On the scale of the French economy, the sums at stake – 750 million euros – remain relatively modest – I say quite relatively – but we are dependent on imports of nitrogen fertilizers, the price of which depends heavily on that of gas: about 167 million euros are at stake. We are, of course, also very careful during the course of wheat. If France does not import Ukrainian wheat or Russian wheat, the difficulty for purchasing countries in obtaining wheat from Ukraine or Russia will lead to an increase in prices. This could have consequences for French agriculture, but also in countries where bread accounts for a substantial part of food, with all the social difficulties that this can entail. At this stage, we are ensuring that all producers can be accompanied. The Prime Minister said: we are working on a plan for the resilience of the French economy, which we will present in the coming days, in order to accompany the most exposed sectors, even if, as you will understand, the share of our economy exposed to these disturbances is fortunately not very important. Energy is obviously the main topic. In Europe, 40% of the gas consumed comes from Russia, which represents a substantial share, less in France than in the rest of Europe. The level of Russian gas dependence in some Western European countries can be as high as 55% of their needs, while some countries most east of the Union sometimes depend on it 100%. This can also be the case for oil, with Russia being the third largest supplier to the European Union. Many European thermal power plants operating with gas, the increase in the price of gas can have a major impact on the price of electricity, especially as price-setting mechanisms within the European Union link electricity prices over gas. The Prime Minister said: protective measures will be taken. If this is necessary, we are obviously prepared to extend the tariff shield for households on gas and electricity beyond June. We have a few weeks and even a few months to make such a decision. Here, too, we will ensure that the effects of the crisis are not devastating to the purchasing power of households, and the tariff shield we have designed to deal with another energy crisis may prove particularly effective, if necessary. It is obviously a little too early in the process to determine the cost of this crisis to our public finances. For example, the six-month extension of the gas price shield would cost EUR 3 billion. It is also too early to know the impact of this crisis on the level of confidence of households and investors, thus on growth. The scenarios we have are very broad: they range from 0.2 to 1 percentage point of global growth, but from 1 to 6 percentage points of Russian growth, reflecting the impact of the measures we have taken on the Russian economy, which is indeed the objective. [[Applause on many benches]] I will say no more: we will certainly have the opportunity in the coming months to come back to the economic and financial consequences of this crisis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-03-01-O1167.u115	The debate is closed. The meeting is adjourned.
