ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u1	The next item is the debate on the draft law on the reform of climate risk management tools in agriculture (Nos 4758, 4874).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u2	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u3	I am pleased to present this afternoon a text that is absolutely crucial for the future of our agriculture. As you know, climate change is a reality and farmers are the first to suffer the consequences because of the increasing frequency and intensity of climate events. We saw it again last spring, with this terrible episode of frost that was the greatest agronomic catastrophe of this early twenty-first century. It is a real sword of Damocles that weighs on our agriculture, but it is also a major obstacle to the installation, because who can agree to invest hundreds of thousands of euros to settle, innovate, become an actor in the transition by taking the risk of seeing the fruit of his work reduced to nothing from the first years? It is no coincidence that the President of the Republic announced the reform that we are discussing today on 10 September, in front of the young farmers gathered at the agricultural fair Les Terres de Jim – and what is true for the installation of our young farmers is, of course, as much for our farmers already settled. Today, the status quo is no longer possible, it would be contrary to the objective of agricultural and food sovereignty, which is the guiding principle of our agricultural policy. For if there is a consensus on all the benches, in all the sectors, among all the players, it is that the current system does not work: it is not sufficiently accessible, it is not sufficiently advantageous, it is too complex, it is sometimes unfair and, finally, it is subject to far too long deadlines for agricultural disasters. That is why we need to make a real overhaul of the system of compensation for crop losses, which is now unanimously considered to be a breathless one. We must do this not for two or three years, but for decades to come: it is a reform essential for the future of our agriculture, to ensure its adaptation to climate change. Reform has been discussed and expected for years, but is still being postponed. Many systems have been proposed, but none have ever been successful. Why? Simply because all the proposals made in the past were based on the same principle that farmers alone had to deal with climate risks. But this cannot work, it is no longer possible. Besides, things don't happen in any other socio-economic sector. Whether it is the automobile, housing or any other sector of the economy, it is each time a national solidarity that is organised to deal with climate hazards. This was not the case so far in the agricultural field, but things will change, because the first principle – essential – of this reform is that it is based on national solidarity. On this point, the Government's commitment is very clear: the aim is to increase funding for climate risk coverage to EUR 600 million as soon as the next finance bill is in place. We therefore propose a recasting of the system with as the first principle this national solidarity, which constitutes a paradigm shift, in accordance with the commitment made in a very clear way by the President of the Republic. The second principle of reform is the creation of so-called universal coverage. Every farmer must have access to it, regardless of the crop and whether it is insured or not, whereas at present both systems co-exist and compete for certain crops, which results in leaving entire parts of French agriculture unanswered. The third principle is to make climate multi-risk insurance (CRM) more accessible by encouraging its use without making it mandatory. In fact, if only 18% of the agricultural area in use today is covered by this insurance, it is by no means because our farmers are bad managers, but precisely because the MRC is not sufficiently attractive. The fourth principle is that insurance will have to be regulated more actuarially – and I would stress this point – through the creation of a pool that mutualizes risks, the development of common technical pricing and greater transparency in pricing, in order to strengthen confidence in the insurance system, to limit its cost and to allow the risk to be equitably distributed in order to combat any aversion to risk, to use the insurance terms. Finally, the new system will be fairer, as it will tend towards greater individualisation of the compensation arrangements and will promote prevention, in line with other parts of public policy that I have the honour to lead this ministry, in particular the massive investments that we are creating under the France Recovery Plan – we are spending, for example, almost EUR 200 million on equipment for protecting and adapting to climate change. Thanks to the France 2030 plan, this investment effort in the fight against climate change will grow. In short, what we are going to discuss this afternoon is simply a safety belt for farmers, based on national solidarity and designed to protect farmers from climate accidents, all for the benefit of our agricultural and food sovereignty. Before I conclude, I would like to clarify the content of this bill. The architecture of the new climate risk management consists of three floors, based on a principle of risk sharing among all actors. The first floor is for the farmer, who, with the support of the State, can take preventive and protective measures. The second floor is the responsibility of the insurer, who must also assume his or her responsibilities. I make it clear that the Government's objective is to make maximum use of the possibilities offered by the so-called omnibus regulation on the financial rules of the European Union, so that the insurance premium is further subsidized. Finally, above a certain loss threshold, the third stage is the responsibility of the State. This three-storey architecture allows the universality that I mentioned earlier, but also to reduce the cost of insurance for the farmer, both through the increase in insurance premium subsidies and by limiting the risk to which insurers are exposed. Indeed, what is very expensive for insurers is to put assets in the face of the risks they take; Once the risk is limited, the insurer has fewer assets to mobilise, which means less costs to pass on to farmers. According to our first simulations, this architecture should be a very encouraging step forward. It will make it possible to propose a much more attractive system for our farmers, but also to avoid that some insurers cover only the "good" risks, leaving others behind. In particular, this is the purpose of article 7 of the bill, which, in my view, is very important, and which provides for the sharing of data and risks within a pool of insurers, in accordance with the commitments of the President of the Republic. In order to ensure that farmers have wide access to this insurance floor, insurers must be obliged to offer an insurance contract to farmers, and your amendments will allow us to clarify your intentions in this regard. Finally, we will create a body for consultation and co-piloting the arrangements between the State, farmers and insurers, so that decisions are collectively taken by the stakeholders year after year. This text is quite short, since it contains only twelve articles, lays the foundations of a new system of risk coverage, but it does not allow to decorate the walls or to fix the size of the rooms. I am thinking here of setting the various thresholds and criteria, which are a matter of regulatory power and will therefore only intervene once the bill has been passed, at the end – I insist on this point, because it is my method of work – of a long process of consultation involving obviously all the sectors of the actors. However, let us be clear, my will, that of the Government, that of the President of the Republic – and, as I know, that of each of you, beyond the political divides – is very clearly to push as far as possible so that the various criteria that we will set by regulation are defined in the interests of our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u5	I repeat, I am very much in favour of subsidising insurance policies to the maximum of what the European omnibus regulations allow. But it seems to me absolutely essential that the various thresholds remain fixed by regulation: it is very important to ensure the dynamic approach to the reform that we are proposing. This reform is very much inspired by the Spanish system created in the late 1970s, which is now our neighbour's main public policy tool. In short, it is a historic reform that we are going to discuss this afternoon, probably one of the most structural of those that, for decades, have sought to foster the resilience of our agriculture. The future regime will be universal. It will be simpler, more efficient and more readable. Above all, it will allow us to better protect our agriculture and better support them on the road to adaptation to climate change. It is, in the end, a tangible act in favour of agricultural sovereignty. This text is the result of a very long work, a very broad process of consultation carried out within the framework of the Varennes agricole de l'eau et de l'adaptation à changement climatique, at which we brought together all the stakeholders. The working group worked hard for many weeks so that its chairman, Member of Parliament Frédéric Descrozaille, could deliver its conclusions to the Government at the end of July. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LR and LT groups]] I would like to conclude by welcoming the commitment of the stakeholders, and in particular that of Mr Descrozaille, rapporteur for the text, who has invested a great deal of effort on this subject with several of your colleagues: I thank him very warmly. His work is based on those undertaken by my predecessors, Didier Guillaume and Stéphane Travert, whom I salute. I have no doubt that our discussions will be exciting. The subject to which they relate merit, since it is nothing less than the adventure of agriculture in the face of climate change that is at stake. In a word, I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u6	Mr Frédéric Descrozaille, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u7	Climate risk management appears to be a technical issue with the narrowness of the specialty. I would therefore like to stress that it is food, agriculture and access to water that is the subject of this bill, which is being discussed in a broader agenda, namely, the Varenne agriculture of water and adaptation to climate change. Water and food are among the most strategic resources of any nation. I am deeply convinced that when we understand how people access the five essential resources of water, food, energy, money and weapons, we are able to decode virtually any geopolitical situation. That is the importance of the issue at stake this afternoon. This is not the first time in the legislature that we are looking at the issue of food. We have already put the nation's demands in this area through legislative provisions, which are changing and which have a considerable impact on production systems. These requirements are specific to a country that has a very special relationship to its food and therefore to its agriculture: a country whose history cannot be understood, according to an American Francophile historian, without taking into account the link between its inhabitants and bread; a country with 350 or 450 kinds of cheese; a country whose subsoil, vegetation and terrain change every 50 kilometres, as the agronomists point out; a country composed of a mosaic of micro-identities of which we all bear here, as members of the national representation; a country united around a concept of food that radiates all over the world. If the principle of national solidarity is to be so high in the machinery that we are going to discuss, it is not because it is important to extend a helping hand to a sector that is facing increasing difficulties. No, it is because it is up to the national representation to recognize the extraordinary contribution of agriculture to the quality of life of the French for decades. In 1946, rationing tickets were still in Paris and the food item accounted for almost 40% of the household budget for a total population of 40 million, whereas its share is now only 13%. The giants of large distribution and agro-industry have emerged and, whatever they say, we eat better and surely more reliably. All this thanks to a sector that has sold most of its productivity gains to its customers. No other person can boast of having done so in such proportions, except perhaps that of the automobile. This contribution from the agri-food sector, which has put pressure on its margins, prices and wages, the alpha and the omega of the measure of its progress, the contribution which French citizens have largely benefited from, is time for national representation to recognize it, at a time when the risks that this sector faces are worsening. The nation must assume what it expects from its food and agriculture and guarantee a renewed national solidarity to make it possible to maintain this influence and production potential. We have requirements for our own food, whether it's collective catering, restaurants or cooking that we develop in each of our homes, but we also have an international responsibility. Indeed, we export one in two tons of wheat, mainly to the countries of North Africa. Since the beginning of the health crisis, the boats have sailed, the trucks have driven. France is a reliable supplier and the contribution of grain chains to the geopolitical stability of our Mediterranean neighbours is absolutely crucial. While there are many hotbeds of destabilization in the world, it is a question of maintaining this potential and the influence of our agriculture by making possible its adaptation to global warming and thus its future – I am thinking here of the formula of Saint-Exupéry: the future, "you don't have to anticipate it, but to allow it". How can this be achieved? By laying down principles, starting with the principle of national solidarity which the minister has referred to at length. We must make all farmers eligible for compensation for exceptional losses provided by the State.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u8	"Eligible"!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u9	To do this, we need to go back to a system that has not been effective. By asking farmers to choose between the regime of agricultural disasters and the insurgency logic, he introduced the idea that there were channels that were deemed insurable and others that were not. The bill is based on another approach. He does not claim to define the boundary between what is insurable and what is not: first, because it is expected to change in the years to come; Secondly, because it is neither for national representation nor for the State to fix it, because it cannot be definitive. It is therefore a matter of establishing a mechanism through which farmers and insurers are able, in good intelligence, to adapt to its evolution. The aim is to allow both the development of the insurance market, the acculturation of risk management and the coverage by the State of exceptional losses, according to a formula with controlled budgetary impact. The second principle is universality. It must be ensured that the development of the insurance market harvests does not favour what the game theory calls cheating behaviour: an operator could be tempted to declare on his own and unilaterally that he stops covering such a risk for such a sector in such a basin. The monitoring of this border will be subject to the examination of the specialists who are the insurers but will also be the subject of concerted action. We will propose you to create a tool that can adjust two steps of non-overlayable time. The first is the long time required to adapt agriculture. I refer you to the sequence 2 of the Varenne de l'eau which provides for very ambitious adaptation plans covering changes of practice, the introduction of new varieties, including tropical ones, and diversification – not to mention investment in protective and preventive equipment. The second step is the commercial reactivity of insurers, which is based on an annual or infra-annual rate. The scheme will combine the risks that some may become uninsurable with the adaptation of agriculture in order to maintain or even increase its potential. The third principle is freedom. We propose a system in which farmers must have the choice of insurance or not, and where they will be offered inventive and innovative insurance policies, whether they are parametric or index policies that are not based on the logic of the compensation and thus offer more affordable prices or more traditional insurance policies, of an indemnity nature, based on a more humane personalized relationship with the insurer. [[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds]] The fourth and final principle is efficiency. Here I would like to commend the minister's determination. As he immediately seized this subject and had the courage to deal with it, according to a usual method, we were able to meet the deadlines. The reform will enter into force on 1 January 2023, which will enable us to honour our commitments. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups and on a few benches of the LR group]] Finally, I would like to thank all those who have mobilized: in addition to the minister, farmers, insurers and reinsurers, the government services, with whom I have had the honour of working hard and who have shown strong professionalism and support and of course those of my colleagues who have been involved in these matters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u10	In the general debate, Mr Antoine Herth spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u11	What is agriculture? It is above all the result of the interaction, guided by the hand of man, between a climate, a soil and plants. The fact that its purpose is to feed humanity makes it a universal rule that is at the very foundation of civilizations. Some of them, it is said, are those of the Mayans, Sumerians, ancient Egyptians, who have had the painful experience of the brutal effects of climate change. It should also be remembered that one of the triggers of the French Revolution, at least of the popular mobilization, was the succession of harsh winters and meagre harvests. The magic triangle climate, soil, plants is productive only thanks to human intervention, that of farmers and farmers, that of our agronomists who, terroir by terroir, production by production, year after year, contribute to making the French table one of the most generous and diversified in the world. What if the French gastronomic miracle had an end? That is the question we must ask ourselves about the forecasts of the impacts of climate change on our agriculture. Traditionally, farmers have come together and sought to pool the tools that enable them to cope with hazards. Thus they were the first to implement insurance against the effects of hail. The rapporteur, in his excellent report, recalled that in 2006, the Agricultural Guidance Act supplemented the disaster system with a new climate risk insurance. We have a decline of about 15 years and we now know the potential of these contracts, whose penetration rate is only 18%, as you said, minister. We can see them as prototypes from which we must build a new generation of insurance coverage modalities. Developments in European regulation also give us more flexibility to intervene in this system. Systemic reform is therefore needed to meet the challenges. And I would like to congratulate you, Minister, on having seized this subject with arms. This was not obvious because it is not always easy to engage in battles involving budgetary arbitrations that are not won in advance. I will of course welcome the rapporteur whose previous report, prepared in the framework of the working group on risk management and crop insurance development, an extremely technical but educational report, has informed our work on this bill. It is important to maintain the balance on which the relatively succinct text on which we look is based: the law to set the framework and the regulations to determine the modalities of application. It is all the more important that we obviously need to remobilise insurers, some of whom have left the climate risk insurance sector, and mobilise the channels – I don't know how – to implement the planned scheme. Regulation must be able to evolve and integrate all stakeholders into the round table. With this in mind, it is up to Parliament to get fully involved by monitoring the development of the system on an annual basis and by meeting annually at the time of consideration of the finance bill in order to vote the necessary appropriations for its proper implementation. The reading of History of Man, twenty-two years of amphi at the Collège de France, by Yves Coppens points to an obvious fact: man appeared as a species because of climate change in the East African Rift and was able to evolve thanks to his ability to adapt to hazards. It is all at stake in this text that we, the men and women of the twenty-first century, can adapt to the climate change before us. [[Applause on the benches of the group Actir ens and on some benches of the groups LaREM and Dem]] Therefore, Minister, the Action Together Group strongly supports structural reform through which our agriculture can continue to carry out its beautiful mission, with the certainty – it is important – of having the entire nation behind it in the event of a climate accident.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u12	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u13	On behalf of the IDU and independent group, André Villiers and I will accompany and support your text, Minister. In the contemporary history of French agriculture, professionals, to date, had their own traditional insurance regime and sometimes benefited from the scheme of compensation for natural disasters or the regime of agricultural disasters. This bill reflects the political will to take into consideration a particularity of our time, on which our colleague Descrozaille has worked well, which we welcome: hazards, particularly climate change. As Antoine Herth has just reminded us, farmers work the living, the soil, the plant and animal kingdoms; They belong to the primary sector and are subject to the multitude of these hazards. These can be political, for example, a few years ago, the Russian embargo on the pig sector; health, like pandemics – we know something about it; climate, like drought, thunderstorms, frost, and I'm going through it. The text before us is therefore of course welcome...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u14	Maybe!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u15	...and I do not see who, even in the left part of the Chamber, might oppose it. Article 1 establishes a general principle of national solidarity vis-à-vis farmers affected by climatic hazards. If the application or articulation of this principle can be debated, you, Minister, expressed yesterday its necessary and innovative character. Article 2 provides that the cumulation of national aid and the European Union contribution may not exceed 70 % of the premium or the insurance contribution thus partially covered. Mr Minister, you mentioned this in your opening remarks: European funds, tools such as the omnibus regulation help to support farmers or farmers in difficulty. Moreover, in a market context, since competition within the Union remains free and undistorted, farmers are in a way weakened: it is important to ensure their safety. You rightly recalled yesterday that the mother of the battles was the collective work on trade negotiations, involving all parliamentary groups and led by the Government, in order to assure them a better income; It is good that we also support the issue of insurance. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LaREM and Dem groups, as well as on some benches of the LR group]] Of course, this text will not be the panacea. However, in putting the various actors in line with their responsibilities, I repeat, he shows the political will that national solidarity is taking place alongside insurers in order to support French agriculture. Once again, Minister André Villiers here and I will support the text that you are proposing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u16	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u17	Allow me, at the beginning of this speech, to have a thought for the victims of the floods that are currently affecting my department and my region. In Occitanie, the memory of the late freeze of May 2021 is still alive in many minds: a few hours had sufficed to devastate hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land. Operators know that this tragedy, far from being exceptional, risks becoming less and less rare. Faced with the consequences of climate change, they try to protect their fields as much as possible; tree growers, viticulturers put up anti-hail nets to limit their losses. In many cases, these preventive measures are not enough to save cultures. Where the damage is too great, the economic consequences are too serious, farmers have no other recourse than the system of compensation for crop losses resulting from climatic hazards; But this regime, at the end of the breath, struggles to fulfil its functions. Only 18% of agricultural land is covered by a multi-risk climate insurance, which is a problem all the more important since the agricultural calamities regime excludes wine-growing, for example, leaving no answer, in the event of a major climate event, whole parts of French agriculture. In addition, insurance companies face structural deficits that challenge their ability to cope with future hazards: over the past decade, the annual premium claims ratio has averaged 105 per cent. In this context, a reform of the insurance system was needed. However, I regret the timetable chosen because of the proximity of the elections, especially since the numerous references to ordinances or decrees – sometimes in a distant period of time – provided for in the text leave much of the task of its implementation to the future government: as things stand, it is difficult to know what the arbitrations will then be. Having said that, I agree with the broad guidelines of the new system. Solidarity, simplicity and accessibility must be at the heart of the reform with a view to ensuring broad coverage against climate risks, which was the objective of the bill I introduced in 2008 to make crop insurance compulsory. The path you have chosen is different: you want to encourage farmers to make sure by increasing public support for insurance premiums. However, I am in favour of it. On the other hand, we have some differences regarding the way in which contributions are subsidized: I defend, for example, that they are taken over at 70%, and not within 70%, by the National Fund for Agricultural Risk Management (FNRGA), as well as a 20% or 10% deductible for crops with the greatest risk. Similarly, article 2 should apply to both "culture" and "farm" contracts. Mr Minister, you wanted to reassure us on this point in the Committee on Economic Affairs; However, concerns persist, and clarification of the text would be welcome. In addition, a debate must take place on the inclusion of the Olympic average as the basis for calculating crop loss compensation. The increasing frequency of climatic hazards derives from the average yields downwards, which may affect the attractiveness of insurance products. The text refers massively to decrees to determine the thresholds beyond which farmers will see their losses covered by the various schemes. We understand this need for flexibility, because the evolution of the disjunct could require a rapid revision of the said thresholds; However, it will be necessary to ensure that they are determined in consultation with stakeholders. Finally, a word about the governance of the scheme, more specifically the pool of insurance companies: I regret that the legal form and the way in which it operates, which is essential to the smooth running of the whole, are not decided at this stage. I am also concerned, like the Autorité de la concurrence, that a misguided sharing of data and risks within a single body could lead to an increase in the cost of insurance for farmers. [[The rapporteur applauds]] Let us hope that the consideration of the bill in a public sitting will help to dispel our remaining doubts and quickly implement this reform. Our farmers need tools that effectively cover the economic consequences of natural hazards and ensure the resilience of their farms. Then you, Minister, will be left to attack health hazards.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u18	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u19	In order to qualify for universal benefits, a contract of insurance must be signed, the compensation of the uninsured being not more than 50 per cent of that of the insured. Your schemes therefore only reinforce the inequality between insured farmers and others. No private contract, it's less public aid: it's about throwing farmers in the arms of insurers. In addition, the EUR 300 million increase in public expenditure will primarily benefit the most affluent farmers, the most profitable farms. Among the proposals put forward by rapporteur Descrozaille during the Varenne agricole de l'eau et de l'adaptation à changement climatique, is the reduction by 2030, aiming at the pure and simple abolition of the compensation of the uninsured; As a result, less than half of the agricultural area will be covered by 2030. The less profitable farms do not provide the means to afford insurance: they will find themselves penalized by less solidarity cover. At the same time, you want to dismantle the regime of agricultural disasters for the benefit of private insurance; Some sectors, such as beekeeping, arboriculture and diversified market gardening, are not, or difficult to do, insurable because they are not of interest to them. Therefore, the system that you propose, far from being universal, abandons entire parts of French agriculture and subsidises the private sector in order to allow the emergence of a market dedicated to profit. We all know that the management of intermediate risks is entrusted to insurance companies: the Government imposes on farmers those private intermediaries who seek only profits, and since this is not enough, recalcitrants who do not consent to insure themselves on the market will be punished by the deprivation of public aid in the event of a major climate event. National solidarity is here with varying geometry: instead of directly supporting the peasants, or creating, as the Peasant Confederation wishes, a mutual and solidarity fund involving all actors in the sector, the Government is pursuing its policy of subsidies to private actors. The current system is certainly obsolete at a time when the frequency and intensity of climate hazards are constantly increasing; We should therefore gradually reform the system of agricultural disasters, so as to allow better compensation and responses as soon as possible, and create the fund I have just mentioned, which would provide basic coverage of all farms, of all crops, including diversified crops, in the face of any climate risk. You also want to save the profits of private insurance by lowering the threshold of eligibility for subsidies and increasing their maximum rate. Insurers now pay more than they collect: the climate risk insurance market is very unprofitable, the highly concentrated agricultural insurance sector – only ten companies, with the two largest companies sharing 70% of the market – and the costs destined to become increasingly high as a result of climate change. Subsidized by the Government to enable them to continue to exist, these insurers will weigh heavily on public services and threaten the equal treatment on which they are based. With this bill, the Government alone wishes to decide on the management and governance of the future system. In addition, farmers facing more climate risks may be offered insurance contracts at exorbitant rates. When it comes to coercing companies and establishing possible sanctions, do we prefer to make an order? In my view, Parliament should have its say. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Similarly, while overseas departments are in a dire social, economic and health situation and are the first to be affected by climate change, the Government avoids discussing climate risk management for ultramarine agriculture with the Parliament. Do the Overseas Territories not deserve a parliamentary debate in the same way as the others? The Group of the European People's Party will not vote for this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u20	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u21	As we have indicated in committee, this bill is a source of concern to our group both in terms of its overall direction and the manner in which it is implemented. As you know: given the magnitude of the climate, health and environmental threats that will be affecting our agriculture in the coming decades, Communist MEPs are calling for a genuine public insurance and risk management regime in agriculture, encompassing all risks. Together with my colleague André Chassaigne, we tabled a bill to that effect in April 2020. We are defending a system in which every farmer, whatever his production, would be covered; a system in which farmers and public decision-makers would determine the objectives and means to achieve them, including the provision of sustainable resources to meet the needs identified each year. The text turns its back on this ambition – even if you defend yourself, minister, saying that it aims to "consolidate the late regime of agricultural disasters while making private insurance much more accessible." Consolidating the disaster regime by severely penalizing farmers who do not subscribe to a climate multi-risk contract – up to 50% of the third-floor public compensation – is a funny way of presenting things. Moreover, you justify the imprecision of the reform – we do not know the details of the applicable thresholds, nor the conditions for fixing the contracts proposed to farmers – by arguing that you want to remain as faithful as possible to the evolution of European law and the possibilities offered by the omnibus regulation. But what level of coverage are you talking about when the fundamental criteria are either left entirely to the assessment of the regulatory power or will be the subject of technical decisions by the future Crop Insurance Guidance and Development Committee (CODAR)? How can the legislator rule on a system whose mechanisms it does not know? You are talking about fairer insurance, but the text does not mention income inequalities between farms and does not provide for any progressivity of crop insurance support depending on the structure and income of the farms. Nor does it reflect any willingness to address these issues. However, in view of the fiasco of the current crop insurance contracts, we know that this is the fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u22	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u23	Our amendments designed to bring more justice to farms in difficulty have, moreover, once again been declared inadmissible. Finally, we are not fooled by the growing weight that insurers will have in defining contracts and terms of compensation. With 70% of public aid for the subscription of contracts and an over-representation in the new CODAR, you ensure above all the insurers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u24	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u25	Indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u26	This shift towards private management is not new. You guarantee this by promoting the extension of crop insurance, organised around a system of intermediate thresholds deliberately blurred, but which the insurance companies will be able to find profitable because of the very strong European and national public support that it will receive. As you know, the ongoing quest for state support to ensure the artificial profitability of private insurance products seems to us to be highly questionable. It is all the more so when we learn that the insurance companies that will be responsible for defining the content of the contracts and the levels of loss coverage within CODAR have just announced to the farmers that they will increase their rates from 10 to 25% by 2022! Curious coincidence. Finally, Minister, you have confirmed in committee the transfer to private interlocutors of the management of the two levels of compensation and the valuation of the losses. This public service delegation, carried out after a call for tenders, will devolve the deconcentrated services of the State of their current mission. You are in fact entrusting all the management of the system to the insurers, who will become judge and party. So, despite the seductive presentation of your reform, we remain very cautious about its real impact on the level of coverage of our farmers' climate risks, and dubious about the conditions for the implementation of this new gas plant. We are also concerned about the place and role of private insurers. If there is no substantial change to the clauses of the bill that will remove these concerns in our debates, we will not vote on the text. (Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Mr Dominique Potier and Mrs Émilie Cariou also applaud.)
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u27	Mr Hervé Pellois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u28	First of all, I would like to thank Jean-Baptiste Moreau for allowing me to speak for our group today – not only because this speech will be my last from the rostrum, but also because, as rapporteur for the agricultural budget in the Committee on Finance, I had the opportunity to take an interest in the effectiveness of the mechanisms for preventing hazards and crisis management funds in the agricultural sector in 2020, on the occasion of the Spring of the evaluation. A finance bill after a finance bill, I measured the growing importance of this issue at the budgetary level. The 15 hearings I conducted allowed me to make the same observations as yours, Minister. All my interlocutors agreed to denounce the inefficiency of the system and the lack of consistency between the rules applicable to insurance and those relating to agricultural disasters, whether in the estimation of losses or in the form of compensation. At home, however, there was no sense of optimism about the possibility of rapid reform. However, it was without counting on your determination, Minister, that I had already noted at our meeting in September 2020. You have been able to convince all levels of the state and implement an effective organization to meet this challenge. By entrusting our colleague Frédéric Descrozaille, a year ago, with a progress report and the task of proposing solutions to overcome the impasse, you made a very good choice. The text proposed by the Government today to complete this reflection was particularly awaited by the profession. As we know, climate change increases extreme weather events, damages yields and endangers our agriculture. The new system is intended to be fairer, more accessible and more efficient, around a three-storey structure shared between farmers, insurers and the state. It reflects a desire to protect our agriculture from this threat. The text aims to be ambitious, by creating a universal climate risk compensation scheme: all farmers, regardless of their type of crop, whether insured or not, will benefit from state intervention in the event of exceptional hazards. I had the opportunity to note the insufficient efficiency of the National Risk Management Fund procedure, in terms of the delays in training and payment or the methodological differences between the stakeholders. I hope that this text will give us an opportunity to come back to some of the cumbersome aspects of the system and thus to ensure faster and fairer compensation for farmers through advances in satellite technology. The general observation, with regard to agricultural climate risk insurance, is that it has too little coverage – as you pointed out, Minister. The proposed scheme is based on a risk allocation among all stakeholders and further subsidizes multi-risk insurance. State intervention, which will increase from EUR 300 million to EUR 600 million per year, should help to curb the increase in tariffs and thus encourage operators to enter the insurance system. Finally, this text empowers farmers to face the climate challenge. This impetus is not new and is part of the continuity of what we have been trying to do in recent years: the introduction of the precautionary savings allocation in 2019, aid for the modernisation of farms but also aid for investment in equipment to cope with the main climatic hazards, financed under the recovery plan. Some provisions remain to be specified by regulation. We have no doubt that the increase or reduction of the thresholds required by the Government will be an opportunity to go as far as European regulations permit. As our President recalled, "there is no great country without strong agriculture". Our majority, reform after reform, tends to preserve this greatness. I would like to take this opportunity to recall the EUR 1 billion aid granted to farmers to compensate for the losses caused by an unprecedented freezing episode last April. Our majority will continue to respond to climate events of this magnitude. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] This bill is also an additional tool to ensure farmers' income. This objective has been set from the beginning of the quinquennium, with the organization of the general states of food, and it remains relevant. If only a few were to be mentioned, EGALIM 1 and 2, the introduction of the precautionary savings deduction and the revalorisation of agricultural pensions were all advances for the profession. The path remains long but the will does not tarnish. We are continuing our efforts and the LaREM Group will obviously vote for this ambitious text. The budget debate at the end of the year will make it a reality.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u29	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u30	No, climate change is not a view of the spirit of popular doxa.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u32	I believe in science, which must be at the heart of our debates and on which our decisions are based. But we can't believe it only when it suits us. So when scientists explain to us, report after report, year after year, that the climate changes, who may not believe it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u33	Someone from your house!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u34	This is all the more true when we have our feet in the earth, in our valleys, our hills, our orchards, our meadows... The massive freezing episode of April 2021 spared almost no French region; it has caused 100% losses in arboriculture and in the cultivation of small fruits, as well as significant losses in viticulture and even in field crops, forcing some beetkeepers to sow again. There are also widespread drought episodes in 2020 and 2016, as well as hail episodes, repetitive storms and fires: the resurgence of adverse climate events in recent years places more and more actors from the agricultural world on the brink of a break. This phenomenon goes beyond the purely financial dimension of the losses suffered or the stakes of the food sovereignty of France – which is already severely undermined because of the normative imbalance that we suffer in relation to our foreign competitors. Indeed, the psychological pressure and moral damage caused by these climatic hazards fuel the unease of many farmers, sometimes leading to dramatic consequences. If our farmers are having difficulties, the insurance companies also have problems of an economic nature. They fear the multiplication of these climatic episodes that lead them to spend more than they collect – which shows that the system is out of breath. It was therefore necessary to respond to a demand expressed by the channels for more than 20 years. The issue of the reform of climate risk management tools in agriculture had been initiated with the Varenne de l'eau, whose work – carried out rigorously, I must say, the rapporteur – resulted in the bill that we are considering today. Spontaneously, we are wondering and we are surprised, legitimately, by the timetable chosen: we are indeed 90 days away from the presidential election. But the urgency is there and it will have to be answered sooner or later. By the way, I deplore the difficulty for the legislator to amend a text of this nature: Article 40 severely restricts the possibility of proposing amendments, and most of our amendments can only deal with form. It is a necessary, urgent bill, which I endorse the main principles – national solidarity, the freedom for farmers to ensure or not to ensure, the necessary complementarity between insurance and the state – but which also raises several questions. Questioning first of all on the application of the text, which should run until 2023: this means that it will depend on implementing regulations which will take place after the presidential and legislative elections. Insurers' question: in Article 7, you are considering setting up a pool of insurers in order to simplify and harmonize the use of private insurance and access to the new public compensation scheme. This pool could play a role as a trusted third party but in order to be effective, it absolutely must pool the risks. If you want everyone to adhere to it, the obligation should not only consist of data sharing. It is imperative to avoid sorting by insurance companies between "good" and "bad" risks. Finally, this beautiful architecture will have no effect if the funding does not follow. However, you have ruled out the possibility of shifting appropriations from the 2022 finance bill. Everything will therefore be based on post-election budgetary discussions so that the dedicated envelope covers the needs necessary to ensure the proper functioning of these risk management tools. The success of the reform is due to the accession rate of farmers, wine-growers, arborists, beekeepers and breeders. It is therefore essential to associate all sectors, each with its own particularity. This is the subject of amendments relating to the composition of CODAR which my group will defend in Article 5. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] The Republican Group will support and vote in favour of this bill. However, you will have to remove our doubts about the application, the guarantee of financing and the compatibility with competition law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u35	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u36	In agricultural history, there is an unwavering link, especially from the 19th century, between mutualist, solidarity, cooperative movements and the prosperity of agriculture. It can be said that solidarity has become a kind of life insurance for our agriculture. But times are changing and new risks are emerging, which we have to face. I am one of those who say clearly today that the status quo is not acceptable. The situation imposes on us, Mr Minister, a certain humility, since we have not reformed the system of insurance for agricultural disasters when the subject has not been before: for at least ten years it has been the subject of discussions in the agricultural world, in the trade unions and in the social democratic circles to which we belong. Yet we did not take the bull by the horns or carry out this indispensable reform. I repeat, the status quo is not possible: there are orphaned productions; the risks increase dramatically; less than 20% of the 28 million hectares of useful agricultural area (SAU) in France are covered by climate risk insurance; The current system of calamities and natural disasters is inoperative and subject to both political pressure and negotiation and scientific objectivation. We therefore approach the reform proposed to us with benevolence, curiosity and availability. The principles that you put forward are a priori sympathetic, and not only because the rapporteur has invested a great deal in this and has not been misguided by dialogue and pedagogy, who is also fond of a form of ethics of the social market economy: a public-private agreement, a universal dimension, a co-management within CODAR, all of which speaks to us and seduces us at first glance. But if today we are rather, between dubitatives and circumspects, in a logic that makes us available for a favourable, negative vote or an abstention, it is for two very simple reasons. First, we could have imagined an alternative solution – without arrogance, since we did not propose it earlier – that was conceptually and practically valid, provided that public resources were put in place, which is not so much the tradition: the alliance of public aid as it exists today in the form of grants and disaster relief with a system of universal contributions from the agricultural world – comparable to the compulsory voluntary contributions, the CVOs. We would thus have a mutual system organized by the State, the CVO being a hybrid of public policy and private dynamics, the state apparatus and the profession. Such a solution would have made it possible not to go through private insurance. That's the ideal. Secondly, we should have been given guarantees. We are not fooled: the recent rise is a kind of anticipation of a machine that could get bogged down, of a power that could become exorbitant. As long as thresholds consistent with justice and ethics are not set in advance, rather than referred to subsequent orders or decisions, we may fear a control of private insurance, whose contracts now condition almost all public aid to the agricultural world. [[Applause on the SOC and GDR benches. – Mrs. Émilie Cariou also applauds]] With this in mind, we will be careful to open the debate at least. The rapporteur undertook to have a substantive discussion on the possibility of an alternative offer. At a minimum, we will ensure that the conditions for public aid can be backed up by other than private insurance and that private insurance is at least subject to ethical requirements. We, who have been used in recent years to distributing, as a result of the pandemic, massively and unconditionally public money, are laying down the principles of a new system that could be based on an ethic of sharing value, so that public money and that of farmers do not feed a cash machine of private insurance that escapes any reason and solidarity that we intend to defend here.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u37	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u38	Agriculture is characterized by generally long production cycles, which expose it particularly to climatic hazards. In essence, the climate risk is consubstantial to agriculture. It has long been integrated into the reasoning of our farmers. Crops can be varied so as not to put all its eggs in the same basket; planting dates are spread, neither too early, to avoid winter frosts, nor too late, to avoid summer droughts. Although this is not a comprehensive list, there are many practices to limit or avoid the consequences of climate risks in agriculture. However, these avoidance strategies only work to address limited, clearly identified, low to medium frequency risks. A drought every five years in the summer is supported by a suitable and diversified operating system; Two drastic droughts in four years can condemn a farm. However, climate events of magnitude are increasing, like the 2021 frost, which so hard hit vineyards and orchards in particular. Agriculture is not able to adapt to climate events that are both more severe and more frequent. Of course, there are insurance schemes in place to deal with these hazards: the agricultural disasters regime, first set up in 1964, which is based on national solidarity, and insurance under private law, climate multi-risk insurance, about two thirds of the cost of which is covered by European financing, the rest being borne by the farmer. But the observation is clear: these devices are no longer suitable. Less than 30% of farmers subscribe to climate risk due to its cost but also due to the deductibles involved in the regulations. As for the system of disasters, it is particularly complex, leads to very long periods of compensation and is often unfair, since it leads to better compensation for those who are not insured than those who are, since the two mechanisms are not articulated with each other. In this context, the reform that you are proposing, Minister, is moving in the right direction. It is based on two simple observations. First, French agriculture is not in a position to provide alone for risks that exceed it as a result of climate change. Secondly, the architecture between the two devices is no longer functional, resulting in a complex, incoherent and even counterproductive system. To these two observations, the answer is clear, and we appreciate this: an unprecedented financial effort with the doubling of the crop insurance budget from EUR 300 million to EUR 600 million; the establishment of a unified system of protection, applicable to all productions and structured around three levels of risk on which I want to return. The first level is the equivalent of the deductible that remains to be paid when one has been the victim of a disaster. This is simply the farmer's risk. This concept is important. There are productions that are not or are no longer possible in certain agro-climatic contexts. To take care of them would be to remove any liability from the producer. The second level is the optional level of private insurance, which is responsible for the average risks by their frequency and intensity. Beyond a certain threshold, the damage to everyone, whether insured or not, is borne by the public authorities: this is the third level. It is also a way to reduce the cost of access to private insurance, which is discharged from the coverage of exceptional risks. If the text is clear and consistent, there are still important points on which I want to draw your attention. The application of the system must be rapid, in conjunction with the reform of the common agricultural policy (CAP) in 2023. The pool of insurers must be organised in such a way that it can offer insurance accessible to as many farmers as possible, regardless of production and territory – it is not about leaving the right risks to insurers. A definition of insurable yield potential should also be worked out: the Olympic average currently used is objective, but also has major drawbacks. Finally, we need to raise our farmers' awareness of the importance of ensuring that we are safe. Crop insurance should not be regarded as a financial investment but as a safety belt capable of saving a farm's life. This awareness-raising work must be done by both public authorities and agricultural professional organizations. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] We will be vigilant on these points but, as you will understand, the Democratic Group is extremely in favour of this text. It is fully in line with your overall thinking in favour of French agriculture, which includes work on the price paid to farmers or access to water.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u39	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u40	Last spring, an episode of frost came to hit our vines and many of our crops. Direct consequence: the state has had to release EUR 1 billion to support the agricultural world. This sad episode highlighted the impact of climate change on our territories and agriculture and led us to question how we can manage these risks that we do not control. This bill is the Government's response to the various climate events in France in recent years. The cost of claims has doubled compared to the years 2010-2015 and the shortening of the current system of compensation for crop losses resulting from climatic hazards is a shared finding by all: mechanisms too complex, unreadable, uninsured farmers and therefore no solution if they are not eligible for the agricultural calamities regime. Our farmers are suffering more and more from climate change. We can no longer allow entire sections of our agriculture to suffer these major hazards, which are expected to become more and more regular and violent. That is why we wish to welcome the Government's willingness to revise climate hazards management, which is considered almost obsolete by the majority of stakeholders concerned. It is vital that the legitimate concerns of our farmers and future farmers are heard. They can in fact lead to a certain discouragement of farmers: today, in the context of the butter price crisis, we can see how the abandonment of dairy farms, a compulsory and poorly remunerated activity, can put our food sovereignty at risk. That is why the aim of generalizing the use of insurance is a good thing, provided that it is strictly regulated by law. If we understand the need to make use of orders on certain aspects of the text, including the setting of trigger thresholds, we cannot give the Government a blank-screen to carry out this reform, which, I would remind you, is necessary and expected. The centrality given to private insurers in the bill should not lead them to guarantee state support to the detriment of farmers. We hear the arguments of the insurance sector that are concerned about the economic viability of this activity. However, in our desire to reform risk management, we cannot give them full powers. We also regret that this long-awaited reform still contains several unknowns: it is a pity that the current text provides for the power of the Government to legislate by order for the creation of the famous pool of insurers to guarantee the sharing of data and risks. For months and years we have been alerted to the too high amount of deductibles, as well as to the cost of insurance. We call for a general sharing of calamities and the consolidation of financing of prevention tools, in order to combat climate hazards effectively. Although we understand the Government's willingness to encourage farmers to resort to crop insurance, it does not seem realistic to us given the current cost of insurance, the amount of deductibles to be paid and the triggers that are still considered too high by a majority of actors. The effectiveness of such a reform will therefore necessarily require decisive intervention by the State, whether through direct aid or through negotiations with insurance, in order to create affordable and serious insurance offers. Supporting our farmers would help combat their impoverishment in a context where natural disasters will be increasingly recurring. Accompanying the world of agriculture and its actors in the face of climate change is one of the major challenges of our century. Agriculture is not an industry like any other and we guess that the timing of the bill's introduction is not insignificant. However, as climate incidents become more and more frequent, there is an urgent need for the Government to listen to the proposals of all groups in order to address the legitimate concerns of farmers. They expect the executive to live up to the task. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] Given the uncertainties surrounding the application of this new insurance system, I will not oppose this text, but I will not be able to vote in favour of it either.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u41	The general discussion is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u42	I note, first of all, that everyone agrees on both the challenge and the urgent need to get out of the status quo. It is always easier, in order to find a solution to a problem, to share the same observation. Secondly, different positions were expressed in this Chamber. Several of you, I am thinking of Members of Parliament Antoine Herth, Thierry Benoit, Hervé Pellois and Nicolas Turquois, welcomed the work of the rapporteur and the relevance of the mechanism presented in the bill: I thank them for this because this text is the result of a very long work of consultation and many discussions. Others, such as Julien Dive, Sylvia Pinel and Émilie Cariou, recognize the relevance of the device but wonder about its timing and how it is applied. But we cannot be sued for opportunism...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u43	It didn't even touch us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u44	... to the extent that we announced this reform a year and a half ago. Some rightly believe that the intention to make this reform the basis of a public policy based on national solidarity will have to be confirmed in the finance bill and that its implementation will depend on the determination of the minister who will be in my place in a few months' time. I say to you very humbly: your greatest assurance, ladies and gentlemen, is to support very clearly those who propose this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u45	[[Smile]] We'll take it back!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u46	[[Smile]] This will prevent you, Mr Dive, from speaking in this forum about climatosceptics. Support the text, do a collective work at the service of farmers! Mr Potier, on the other hand, defends another model – which we have also studied – based on the CVO. The idea is that farmers do not assume the risks alone, but are supported in this by all the players in the sector. In doing so, you express the same intention as we do: not to leave farmers alone. However, as we rely on national solidarity, you defend another form of solidarity. [[Antoine Herth applauds]] The compulsory voluntary contribution is a rather incredible invention... However, it does not belong to the State but is the result of interprofessional agreements: the professionals concerned ask the State to extend the CVO to all the actors in the sector. In other words, more than 70 per cent of stakeholders in each of the downstream sectors in the agricultural production chain would have to agree to ask the Government to extend this contribution scheme to all. To the extent that there are more than forty-two channels, this will never happen. The only solution would then be to introduce a tax rather than a CVO. But it will not have escaped you that the majority I belong to is very committed to not introducing new taxes or taxes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u47	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u48	A final part of you have expressed opposition to the bill. First of all, I will distinguish between the opposition expressed by Mr Dufrègne, who is based on an ideological difference: he wants this system based on national solidarity to be exclusively in the public domain – I have spoken about it with President Chassaigne in committee and I respect that position. The mechanism we are proposing involves a share of the responsibility assumed by the insurers, whereas you would prefer the scheme to be a matter of national solidarity. For my part, I think that we must retain a share of the responsibility assumed by the insurance companies. Even if I like to exchange ideological views with the communist group, we will not be able to join on this approach.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u49	I didn't say the word!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u50	I'll give it to you, Congressman. Finally, Jean-Hugues Ratenon's opposition is based on false assertions: for example, when he says that the reform would subject certain aids to farmers' subscription of an insurance contract. This is not written anywhere in the text and it is strictly false. Then, and it's strange, he added that the insurers had organized a system in which two of them shared the cake – in fact, they're a little more numerous, but it doesn't matter. It's almost economic Darwinism: do you think the climate multi-risk insurance sector would attract only two major players if it were so lucrative and profitable? No, obviously not.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u51	That's why the system can't work!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u52	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Why are insurers gradually disengaging from climate multi-risk insurance? Not to let two of them share a particularly rich cake alone! You defend an incoherent view of the economic system that, in any case, after five years of discussions with you, I will never understand or understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u53	I'll explain it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u54	I now call, in the text of the commission, the clauses of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u55	Mr Andre Villiers has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u56	Weather events are becoming more frequent and the severity of their effects is increasing, especially for farmers, due to climate change that causes and reinforces extreme events. The episode that occurred last April in a department that is dear to me, the Yonne – three days of freezing and temperatures around 8 degrees – greatly affected the trees and wine growers. They have been recognized as victims of agricultural disasters and have since yesterday been able to make their tele-reports online – almost a year after the facts, you will agree that the deadlines are far too long. This example of a disaster department among so many illustrates that the boundary between what is insurable and what is not – and must therefore be a state responsibility – is becoming increasingly blurred. The link between the insurance component – climate multi-risk insurance contracts – and the state-linked agricultural disaster regime – must therefore evolve. However, France is still experiencing a war on agricultural and food prices, which weakens farmers' incomes and prevents them from saving enough to overcome climate events. Moreover, the inflationary risk attributed to fuels now weighs on food prices: the announcement has just been made that the 30% increase in wheat prices will lead to a 2.5% increase in pasta prices in the negotiating boxes – which is outrageous! This text, which aims to generalise the insurance coverage of farmers, therefore goes in the right direction because, at present, too few crops are concerned: only 30%, excluding grasslands. But the goal of reaching 60% of insured areas by 2030 seems far too progressive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u57	Thank you for closing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u58	I'll do it. The necessary national solidarity cannot be lost: the drought tax still haunts the minds of a public opinion always ready to stigmatize farmers,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u60	... yet entrusted with the noblest mission: to secure food sovereignty. Mr. President, I'll just say a word to Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u61	I will let you finish, Mr Villiers, but I would like to remind you that the speakers on the Rules have only two minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u62	[[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and SOC groups]] I would have finished my remarks if you hadn't interrupted me...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u63	In these circumstances, Mr. Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u64	First of all, I would like to respond quickly to the minister: there was no lies or inaccuracies in my colleague Ratenon's remarks. When he spoke of aid, he referred to those which fell within the scope of insurance: the payment of public aid was therefore subject, in this case, to the subscription of private insurance. On the other hand, do not pretend not to understand what we meant with regard to the two private insurers who hold 70 % of the market and are in a quasi-monopoly situation or, at least, enjoy a powerful balance of power. The rapporteur himself admitted that they would be relied upon to determine what could be assured and what would not be assured; In other words, they will be allowed to decide when they will stop compensating for certain risks because it will no longer be profitable for their business. This will be tantamount to leaving a majority of farmers facing risks that are declared uninsurable because they are unprofitable by insurers, whose logic is purely financial, while national solidarity implies a pooling of risks within the agricultural community.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u65	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u66	"In the beginning was the Word": when we begin consideration of a bill, we are entitled to the departures of the minister and the rapporteur; This is part of the parliamentary exercise. "The text is wonderful, absolutely revolutionary, it will meet all expectations," we are told... A few years later, or even earlier, we find that the landing is very disappointing compared to the initial flights.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u67	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u68	[[Smile]] This bill will not escape. With regard to Article 1, everyone jumps on his chair like a cabri by saying: "national solidarity, national solidarity, national solidarity! But if I take out my Thiers knife and scratch it a little bit, I discover that behind this national solidarity is above all a solidarity for insurers: we must reassure insurers; and to reassure them, we must reassure them. This ultimately leads to a form of privatization of earnings and a socialization of losses. As you said, Minister, the sector is dominated by two players, Pacifica and Groupama, who account for 70% of the market. They're the ones pulling the strings. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Jean-Louis Bricout also applauds]] We will often intervene on the articles to explain our position, since half of our amendments have been liquidated – I am not delusional about the fate of the other half. So I say: what you are proposing is a copy-paste not of the Spanish system, but of the American system. Public money from national solidarity will benefit only a few.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u69	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u70	Article 1 is the exact opposite of what you describe, Mr Chassaigne. It announces the very spirit of the text and its fundamental principle: universality. Contrary to the current situation, all farmers will now be protected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u71	But on different levels!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u72	Whether the farmer is insured or not, he will be able to turn to a single interlocutor who will compensate his losses if they exceed a certain threshold – thanks to national solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u73	Only 50%!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u74	If the farmer is insured, the compensation resulting from national solidarity will be in addition to that which will be paid by the insurer. If it is not insured, it will still be compensated, but will not be able to receive more than 50% of what an insured farmer will receive: this is a European rule which is already in force. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Article 1 lays down a fundamental principle: leave no one on the roadside and remedy the shortcomings of a system which, due to the administrative burden of the agricultural disaster regime, too often left farmers in an economic impasse – or, if they were not eligible, without any accompanying solution. The principle of universality is essential to respond to increasingly frequent climatic hazards. The proposed architecture is simplified. It is composed of three floors, depending on the risks: on the first floor, a management by the farmer of the low risks; on the second floor, insurance coverage, subsidized by the State, of the average risks; on the third floor, a management by the State of the so-called exceptional risks. This architecture is simpler, more legible and more equitable than the current system for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u75	Mr Guillaume Larrivé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u76	I am pleased that, at the end of this parliamentary term, we collectively managed to move forward on the very important issue of protecting farmers from climate change. As a Member of Parliament for Yonne, like my colleague André Villiers, I know how hard farmers, arborists and wine growers have been hit by difficult weather events in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u77	Let's think about the chablis!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u78	However, the current system is not working properly: the system of agricultural disasters comes too late, and the insurance scheme is too fragmented. The logic that you propose, which has been studied by the committee, is the correct one. It consists of a universal regime accessible to all farmers, according to a principle of freedom – far from a compulsory system in the Soviet, it respects entrepreneurial freedom. It is broken down into three stages: a franchise, an insurance regime and a stratum of national solidarity. That principle suits me. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] However, I would like to draw your attention to two points of vigilance. The first is legal – Charles de Courson will mention it just now: we have become aware with some concern of the opinion of the Autorité de la concurrence, and wish to be assured that the future law can be applied without difficulty, without breaching European law. Moreover, as Julien Dive will explain on behalf of the Republicans, we want all sectors to be involved in the implementation of the scheme. It is therefore essential that all be represented in CODAR. Obviously, the producers of cherries in Jussy, in my constituency, Chablis or Irancy do not have the same constraints: they do not have exactly the same profession, are not subject to the same timetables and do not have the same concerns. Therefore, field actors must be involved in the implementation of the scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u79	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u80	Allow me to respond to these interventions; So, I'll be shorter afterwards. I agree with you, Mr. Moreau. In addition, Mr. Larrivé and Mr. Villiers, the recent episode of frost offers a perfect illustration of our approach: we have developed an ad hoc device – Mrs. Verdier-Jouclas can testify – that draws the premises of crop insurance. You consider the procedure too long, Mr Villiers, but ask the farmers on the ground: many will tell you that the arrangements have never been so fast – we are not satisfied with them. Kernel fruit producers, for example, received the first compensation in the summer, whereas they normally wait a year and a half to two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u82	We are now dealing with seed fruit producers – the lag is due in part to reporting cycles and production end dates. Our reaction to the freezing episode is therefore one of the premises of the device we propose. We need to go even further: that is the purpose of the bill. Moreover, Mr Chassaigne, it is especially important that the Word be made flesh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u83	[[Smile]] This is for Dominique Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u84	The 50% compensation you refer to is the strict application of European rules; It is already in place in the National Committee for the Management of Risks in Agriculture (CNGRA).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u85	Really?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u86	This is how it works today, and it is a copy and paste of European regulations. I come to the question of balance, which Guillaume Larrivé and André Chassaigne have mentioned in particular. Studies have shown that even if all farmers made sure, as car drivers do, pooling risks would not lower the cost of insurance. That's the great difficulty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u87	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u88	This option, which was considered a time, was therefore ruled out. We have therefore considered another mechanism, which must necessarily be based on national solidarity: without it, it will not work. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] How can we explain that pooling the risks of all farmers does not reduce the cost of insurance, as is the case with motor insurance? The reason is as follows: today, 18% of insured areas represent the lowest risk in the most at-risk areas; This is roughly equivalent to the average risk in the national territory. Knowing that the system does not work for 18% of surfaces, it will not work for all surfaces with an equivalent risk average. The first pillar of the reform is therefore national solidarity – I insist on it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u89	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 110, which deletes Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u90	We propose to delete this article, which lays the foundation for a national solidarity with variable geometry for farmers in the face of climatic hazards. It provides for farmers to receive compensation on national solidarity under the conditions laid down in Article 3 of the draft law; However, according to the Commission, farmers who have not entered into a climate risk insurance contract will not be able to receive more than 50% of the compensation received by insured farmers. In doing so, the Government introduces conditionality of State aid to insurers and larger farms. It is more than likely that half of the farmers will not be able to purchase such an insurance policy by 2030 – as indicated in the impact assessment, the target insured area at the end of the decade is 46%, and even 30% for horticulture, arboriculture or grassland. In these and other sectors, in particular beekeeping, the lack of protection for farmers is due both to their low incomes and to the reluctance of insurance companies to cover them. This refers us to the debate on insurable or non-insurable holdings: who sets the cursor? Therefore, advocating national solidarity that favours farms that have the means to secure themselves is at least inappropriate, if not slightly hypocritical.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u91	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u92	There is always much to say about a deletion amendment. I will try not to be too long, knowing that we have just mentioned the subject you are raising. If the scheme were as favourable to insurers as you say, they would be the first to support and promote it. It will not have escaped you that this is not really the case. On the contrary, they stop the four irons: they fear that they will have to bear obligations and continue to supply a product that does not allow them to earn money. On this subject, I am surprised every time I hear you – you or some of your colleagues – talking about people who make money. How is it problematic for someone to get richer if they do a service in a moral way, with the desire to satisfy their customers? I fully assume this: it is a question of creating a system in which insurers, whose job is to cover hazards, can achieve a result that will enable them to invest, pay their employees, prospect and prosper economically. That is the logic of the text. However, the device is not made for the big ones or for the small ones. The bill is supported by a representative trade union, the National Federation of Agricultural Operators' Unions (FNSEA). You are often keen to condemn the latter, but I would remind you that 60% of farmers vote in the elections to the chambers of agriculture, compared with only 8% of their fellow citizens in the elections to the prud'homales, and that the FNSEA is largely majority. The State has few interlocutors whose representativeness is also proven. I would add that this union represents all sectors; It has small actors as well as big players, all political sensitivities. I am therefore falsely against your words: the scheme is not for the benefit of the insurers. We will, however, ensure that the assurance logic does not go to the detriment of customers – we will talk about it in Article 7. A grouping will also have to be created, in order to develop collective intelligence. Therefore, safeguards are provided, in a market development logic. Finally, Mr Potier, the extended voluntary contributions – also known as compulsory voluntary contributions, a somewhat contradictory terminology which, I admit, is ready to smile – are defined by inter-professions of initiative and private law: it is not up to the State or the legislator to dictate to them a base, a rate and an object.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u93	I can tell you from experience that an interprofessional is in unstable balance. It's like a bike: if it doesn't move forward, it falls, and the less the state takes care of it, the better it gets. Finally, national solidarity must be exercised outside the food sector. It is only a matter of helping, of guaranteeing the nation's support for a whole value chain that has been crushing its prices, wages and margins for decades. We will not solve the problem by taking money downstream, in a sector where the balance of forces is such that in general it recovers that money from its own purchases – this is what we discussed during the review of the EGALIM 1 and 2 laws. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u94	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u95	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u96	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u97	Mr rapporteur, we have a different philosophical approach. You are redoing the game of risk sharing, which is part of a mutual insurance system, but only with private insurers who will make money. The question is always one of the relationship between profits and costs: paying private insurers and their shareholders costs more than a mutual service in the hands of policyholders. As for the idea that if this mechanism were so favourable, the insurers would have shown themselves to support it, what about the fourteen farmers' organisations and trade unions which consider it unfavourable to them and which do not support your text? There's a problem here too! This may not help the bankers, but on the part of the future insured, there is a fairly broad and united front to say that this measure does not meet the current needs of their profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u98	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u99	Our Freedom and Territory Group fully supports this Article 1, which first provides for the freedom of insurance for each insured person, without compulsory insurance, and secondly for liability. Indeed, it is entirely logical that those who are insured should be better compensated by the collective system than those who do not. It is indeed the tragedy of the present system that the fund of calamities only intervenes for those who are not insured: it is the very example of a system of collective irresponsibility, when the principle of responsibility is restored.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u100	Of course!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u101	As for the solidarity of the nation, to say – as you do in the summary statement of your amendment – that you oppose "the general logic of this text, which envisages forcing farmers to throw themselves in the arms of private insurers and, failing that, to leave them on the sidelines" is entirely wrong, because everyone will benefit from the fund, even the non-insured, for whom the conditions will be less advantageous than those who are insured, but who will not be sent into the arms of private insurers, since they are free to do so or not. We cannot therefore accept your amendment, which is contrary to the very text of Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u102	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor to support Amendment No. 171.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u103	Mr rapporteur, I will not talk about people who make money, but about those who are at risk of losing money, particularly with the drafting of Article 3 on which you came back earlier, which reduces the amount of compensation that farmers who have not entered into a climate-related multi-risk insurance contract by 50 %, which, moreover, makes our colleague in Courson jump. This penalisation measure, whose objective is – I understand it well – to push farmers to make sure, will prove particularly unequal and dangerous, especially for farms already in difficulty or with the lowest incomes, which often make the bet of not making sure because it is less expenditure when they are already unable to cope with others. I know, in particular, of many livestock farms which today do not have the means to subscribe to an MRC contract and whose increase from 65% to 70% of public support for subscription will not profoundly change the capacity to subscribe to it. If this mechanism is, as we have just been told, a copy-paste of European legislation, we must ask ourselves how we can nevertheless support farmers who have not signed a climate-related multi-risk contract and are being reduced by 50% of the compensation they could have claimed had they done so, especially the most fragile farmers, so as not to push them even faster towards often increasing difficulties.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u104	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u105	Mr Dufrègne, Mr Chassaigne, I will tell you two things. The first concerns farmers in difficulty, who do not produce a result allowing them to have a strategy including subscriptions to insurance contracts, or even to save. This is a real tragedy in agriculture, and this bill certainly does not make it possible to redress this injustice. We have passed laws that try to protect farm income, but farmers are subject to a very unfavourable economic power relationship and it is not with an insurance product that an income is protected. The idea drags on in the agricultural world that insurance must be able to guarantee a kind of minimum income, but no one calculates the rate of return on an insurance contract! No one is waiting for a flood, a fire or any other event to be reimbursed for what his home insurance contract costs! So, humbly, we need to be very clear about the fact that this bill is not intended to come to the rescue of farm income, but to have a resilience: it is not to have to close a shop, to put the key under the door in the event of a disaster or the succession of some climatic accidents. I admit, however, that there are farmers in great difficulty, who will find it difficult to enter into an insurance contract and have a strategy – but that is another question. Second point: the 50% reduction. This is, it is true, European legislation, but if this measure were not included in the European text, I would still have liked it to be drafted in this way, because when farmers are asked today whether crop insurance should be compulsory, two irreconcilable camps are emerging, each responding with the same aplomb. For some, it must be absolutely mandatory; For others, it's out of the question. I respect these choices, which are heartbreaking in the agricultural world. If you ask winemakers in the Pyrénées-Orientales – not big ones: small ones, who don't have a lot of income – the climatic accidents they live in the Mediterranean area will probably make them say that they are in favour of compulsory insurance. In Brittany, on the other hand, there are chances that farmers will tell you that this is out of the question. No one should be despised. Insurance must not be compulsory for those who consider it not to be compulsory, and everyone must remain free, but it must also be said to those who want it to be mandatory that we encourage farmers to make sure and define business strategies for calculating and transferring risk.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u106	I would remind you, Mr rapporteur, that apart from that of the Government, all statements on the amendments are limited to two minutes. This also applies to the rapporteur. What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u107	Mr Dufrègne, the black-and-white figure in the Rules of Procedure is 50%. I will be able to pass on this document to you, and I stress this point. On the other hand, because I know your involvement in this matter, I would point out that according to a 2010 order, the percentage of compensation retained by CNGRA for the prairie is 28%. Therefore, since the loss exceeds 30 %, the compensation shall be 28 % from the first euro of loss. This measure is in line with the 50% figure laid down by European legislation, which gave rise to this order, but the figure is now 28%, with a difference from the first euro of loss. The project therefore does not create a vice which would be less favourable than the existing one. I would like to be very reassuring about this: it is a matter of transcribing the rules laid down by European legislation, but they are already in force today. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u108	Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u109	Following on from the comments of my colleagues Julien Dive and Guillaume Larrivé, I would like to say that the Group of the Republicans is in favour of this text and its Article 1. However, at the beginning of our discussions, I should like to point out that, in the context of climate change, the best insurance policy lies above all in protective equipment, which is expensive and difficult to absorb for farms, hence the importance of State and local authorities intervention to accompany them. The best crop insurance is also irrigation – and I am not talking about the 1980s, but about 2022: it is not about intensification of agriculture, but about securing farmers' incomes throughout the country. I know in particular, minister, that you are convinced of the value of winter water storage, but your services still have a long way to go on the ground to make projects in this area happen. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group]] With respect to the bill we are looking at, the role of our debate is to provide guarantees, first of all with respect to the 70% subsidy and the subsidyable exemption of at least 20% applied in full to all productions and contracts. We must be well aware that without this, there will be no positive dynamics to go further than is currently being done. There is also a need to clarify the arrangements for intervention of the agricultural disaster fund, pooling all risks – we will return to this at length, in particular to Article 7. Finally, even if this has been said and written, concrete evidence must guarantee the entry into force of the text by 1 January 2023 at the latest. This will be the subject of amendments tabled in particular by our group.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u110	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u111	I will not go back to the comments made earlier by the rapporteur, who drew inspiration from Guizot, saying: "Enrich yourselves, enrich yourselves! »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u112	Work!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u113	The times have evolved since the July monarchy. With regard to coverage, the aim of this text is to ensure that those who are not insured are no longer compensated. You have said that yourself, Mr rapporteur, and I have here a press article in which you state that, in the long run, the uninsured should no longer benefit from State intervention in order to be compensated. I don't know if you're confirming that, but they're here. The reality is that some people will not be able to make sure, because their income will not allow them to do so. The 70% of insurance assistance will therefore only benefit those who can be insured. On the other hand, the 50% reduction will also, in your opinion, apply to those insured, but I do not believe so. So there will be a difference between those who are insured and those who are not. Moreover, everything depends on the threshold, and the difference with the previous situation can be very penalizing. On the third stage of the rocket, that is, at the time when the State intervenes again in addition to private insurance, everything depends on the fixed level, which will also define the level of loss compared to what was assumed by the previous provisions. I will return later to the herbager system, which should be very concerned with these issues. In any case, this measure is very selective: those who have the most difficulties will not be able to secure them, and public aid to pay insurance contributions will go only to those who will be insured, while the rest will be reduced.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u114	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u115	On Article 1, I have a request for a public ballot before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Guillaume Garot to support Amendment No. 42.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u116	I understand the Government's willingness to provide answers to all questions related to insurance protection in the face of climate change. The objective, however, is not universal coverage. First of all, as has been said a lot before me, not all farmers subscribe to crop insurance, because they simply cannot afford it. Secondly, not all productions are eligible for this type of insurance – I think in particular, and subject to verification, beekeeping. How can we reform without being in the hands of insurers? It is in these terms that the Socialist and Related Group would like to raise the problem, in order to preserve the objectives of general interest and to support the whole sector without indirectly financing another sector. We therefore propose the establishment of a scientific committee with two tasks. The first would be to work on the level of compensation, beyond the risks described as catastrophic. It is important that experts be solicited to participate voluntarily in this scientific committee and conduct this work in a collegial manner. A second mission will be assigned to this committee, in line with what Dominique Potier explained earlier: to determine how to mobilize a diversity of contributors to this solidarity, so that not only national solidarity, but also sector solidarity, can be exercised. I heard your arguments – interesting – about the CVO, but we need to go further. This is in any case the proposal that we are making, in order to achieve the most just and effective system that meets the objective of universal insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u118	It is unfavourable, for two reasons. On the one hand, I do not go back to the contribution of solidarity targeted at certain actors in the sector: it is a question of increasing the State's share of support for French agriculture, and not of having such an actor rather than another contribute within the sectors. On the other hand, I fully agree with you on the follow-up committee: there is no doubt that a committee of experts will have to ensure that the law is properly applied. Only this role will go back to the future CODAR – or to CODAR, if it takes the form of a committee: we will have the opportunity to come back to it when we consider amendments on this point. This body will have the task of bringing together the expertise of insurers and agricultural professionals to identify, as close as possible to the ground, the sectors where the reform will produce its effects and those where it will not work, with a mid-term review scheduled for 2026.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u120	Same opinion, for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u121	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u122	I would add an argument, which I consider to be powerful, against this amendment and the following: you intend to charge the endorsement, but only the endorsement located in France, since you will not be able to impose such a contribution on actors located in England, Germany or the Netherlands. If your amendment were adopted and if the scientific committee you wish to set up concluded that it is necessary to tax the support to finance the upstream, French agro-industrial activities would therefore be penalized. I am not even sure that such a provision is in conformity with Community law: if a farmer exports half of his wheat abroad and you charge only French millers, since you will not be able to charge Belgian millers who will then re-export their flour to France, you create discrimination against French agro-industry. The spirit of this amendment therefore seems to me to be completely contrary to the interests of the French agri-food sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u123	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 43.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u124	Charles de Courson is concerned about the agri-food industry. For our part, we care about the incomes of farmers in the event of climatic hazards: generally, in these situations, the acquiescence is quite good. The question is therefore that of the producers. I have heard the rapporteur's arguments, which explained earlier that the difficulty of mobilising all the interbranch was the main obstacle to the creation of CVO. At the same time, he praised the power of the majority union, appointed in elections involving seven out of ten peasants, giving it the capacity to represent all trades and territories. This argument presents at least a paradox. I have the greatest respect for the FNSEA and for the union fact in general. Nevertheless, the rapporteur could have explored with the inter-professionals, in their diversity, the way of regulation and risk sharing. I would remind you that when we opposed the reintroduction of neonicotinoids, we calculated the cost, on a bottle of soda, of a tax to collect the EUR 300 million needed to fill the deficiency caused by the hazard caused by the green aphid and yellow beet. The extra cost would have been a few cents per bottle for three years. In other words, the downstream players would be perfectly able to show solidarity with the changes in production and the inter-branch could mobilise this resource. Moreover, agro-industrialists could no longer place this additional burden on producers, since, I say without irony, since the adoption of the EGALIM 2 law, prices have been built from the bottom, on the basis of production costs – at least we hope. Finally, there was never a question of creating CVOs in each inter-occupation and of exempting the State from its contribution: it was indeed a question of building a system in which the public authority and inter-occupation, together, jointly manage a mutual and state insurance system. If not universal, this alternative option should at least be offered to farmers, in parallel with private insurance. That is the meaning of the amendment that we are submitting, which takes the form of a request for a report drawn up by a scientific committee so as not to fall within the scope of Article 40 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u125	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u126	For the reasons already set out above, I express an unfavorable opinion. I did not say that it was not possible to create CVOs: I pointed out that this could only be done by private initiatives. We can always invite the actors concerned to seize this possibility, but neither the executive nor the legislator can impose on an interprofessional to set up a project in this direction: it is simply impossible. The State shall carry out compliance checks in the context of a possible extension, but it is indeed the inter-occupation which takes the initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u127	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u128	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u129	Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u130	I am quite surprised by the amendments tabled on Article 1. Through this bill, the State is committed to taking on the risks that will no longer weigh on the agricultural world, beyond the exceptional disasters alone. This is still the best answer to give to farmers, including those who are most in trouble! Of course, as the rapporteur has pointed out, some do not have the means to finance insurance. But expanding the insurance spectrum will strengthen the system and develop a risk culture – because while some operators cannot take out insurance, others do not want it, because they apply a return-on-investment logic. As I mentioned earlier, insurance must be regarded as a safety belt, which protects farms in the event of a major risk: it is not an investment, it is a protection. We should welcome the intervention of the State as it proposes to do. This in no way prevents us from taking into account the problems of profitability which affect certain farmers and which must be dealt with elsewhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u131	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u132	I support our colleague's amendment. The members of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left took a similar approach when they tabled a bill on 7 April 2020, article 6 of which, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, "introduced a mandatory contribution from banking and insurance companies, as well as from the agricultural and agri-food sector, to the National Fund for Agricultural Risk Management (FNGRA). This new contribution, whose base and rate would be defined by decree, relates only to financial revenues, i.e. the sum of gross and assimilated dividends and gross interest earned." [[Smile]] I wanted to stress this, because it was out of the question that I had to be doubled on my left by Dominique Potier!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u133	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u134	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 103 Number of votes cast 95 Absolute majority 48 For adoption 94 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u135	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No 129 on the additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u136	It aims to modify the consequences of the use of the professional savings made in the context of the precautionary savings deduction (EPD), by removing the tax re-integration of the deductions used to deal with the consequences of a hazard of climatic, natural or health origin. The tax re-integration exemption would be limited to expenses related to hazards, i.e. those that would not have been incurred in their absence. The situation has probably never been more conducive to such a change, as farmers are fully aware that support mechanisms will have to change. In addition, this amendment would be – icing on the cake – a bonus for good management.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u137	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u138	In all sincerity, I was initially in favour of your amendment. I shall, however, express an unfavourable opinion for a number of reasons. On the one hand – and I admit that I did not think about it immediately – the amendment, if adopted, would affect the ceiling on de minimis aid, which falls within the scope of Community law. We do not have any visibility of the potential impact of your proposal, as there are no data on the potential impact of your proposal. On the other hand, the highly successful DEP is based on a principle of simplification and greater efficiency compared to the previously existing hazard deduction (DPA). Let's not touch it at the moment: let's wait to see how the device evolves. Even if I consider your motivations and your idea to be good, I express an unfavorable opinion at this stage.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u139	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor to support Amendment No. 228.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u140	Its purpose is to supplement Article L. 1 of the Rural and Maritime Code, in order to clarify the objectives of public policies on the prevention and management of climate risks in agriculture. The aim is to engrave in the marble the universal character of the proposed risk management system. For the past five years, the majority has committed themselves to a public policy of prevention, with a dual objective: to improve the resilience of agricultural production systems to climate change and to create tools for prevention and coverage of risks. I would like to point out that the bill we are looking at comes in addition to the France Recovery Plan, in which we spent 160 million euros on prevention tools and 1.2 billion euros on the agricultural transition and the transformation of our production model. It is also a continuation of the measures announced by the President of the Republic in the framework of the France 2030 plan, which makes the transformation of our agriculture one of its objectives. Finally, as the Minister pointed out, the envelope devoted to the fight against climate hazards is doubled and increased to EUR 600 million.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u141	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u142	This amendment has the merit of clarifying, therefore, a little more so, the intention of the legislator and of better regulating the interpretation of the text by the executive power responsible for declining its regulatory application, whatever it may be. I am firmly in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u143	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u144	I, too, am very much in favour of this amendment. I would like to point out to President Chassaigne that while politics is always complicated, it sometimes reserves us some mysteries that are difficult to break. In this case, I am presenting a government bill proposing, thanks to national solidarity, to increase the amount devoted to the fight against climate hazards from 300 million to 600 million euros per year...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u145	That's right, I do.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u146	... and to create a mechanism which has been the subject of eighteen months of work, extensive consultations and a unanimous vote by the French Council of Agriculture (CAF). A great many stakeholders have been involved in the drafting of this text – I have even personally exchanged with you. Yet a small music is heard that we would seek to create a system that is less beneficial to farmers than the existing one.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u147	We didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u148	Let's be serious! Do you really believe that we would have spent so much time and energy rescuing arbitrations in order to get a doubling of the state's contribution to national solidarity in order, in the end, to propose a less effective system for farmers? [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] I'm going to make you a confession: never before has my concern been whether the insurers would be happy with the reform – given the number of emails we receive, I think they are not. Those who have been following me since I took up my duties know this: I have always made this indifference a marker, because I only know this profession too well. My only compass is the resilience of French agriculture! That's what we're fighting for! [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I will give you one point, Mr Chassaigne: the thresholds are not fixed in the law. But I am challenging you: since you are fully aware of my intention and that of the President of the Republic, let us make sure that this reform is completed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u149	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u150	We can only support Mr Moreau's common sense amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u151	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u152	It is not entirely normative, but it does not eat bread. He referred to the adaptation of production systems. I would like to give an example. At my home in Champagne, people do not make sure because we have put in place a device, the individual reserve, which has become perennial after several years of experimentation. This is to set aside the wine obtained during the good years – which of course means to bear the cost of storage. When things go wrong, we can pee in the individual reserve. This was the case in the last harvest: the yield, which had been fixed at 10000 kilos per hectare, was only 6000 but thanks to the individual reserve, which this year amounted to 8000 kilos per hectare, the Champagne market has not experienced any tensions. Here's a good example...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u153	It's a privilege!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u154	... adaptation of the system that costs nothing – it does not require a penny of public money, which proves that we do not always need it. I know that this system is of interest to other types of viticulture. Of course, this is not possible in Beaujolais, where the vine has an annual cycle. But in other vineyards, like the Bordelais, I know we're working on it. There are, therefore, many examples of how systems and production rules can be adapted to provide collective insurance. I can give you another example, very recent, that of the consumer potato industry. A large agreement has just been signed between McCain and 800 producers. It foresees that prices will be stabilized no longer over three years, as is currently the case, but over six years, in order to ensure greater readability. It is also all such initiatives that help to avoid or remedy climate problems.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u155	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u156	I would point out to the minister that we are fully aware of the increase in the state's resources for this reform. The question we are asking is who benefits from it? Who's taking advantage of it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u157	Farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u158	Our answer is not necessarily the same as yours. Mr Moreau's amendment focuses on the resilience of our production systems, which we obviously share. I would, however, like to say a bit more: in the name of resilience, there should not be an even greater specialization of the territories according to their climatic advantages. If specialization is further increased, this may cause problems of production flow, induced pollution or relocation of other productions available in our territory. We must be very vigilant on this point. Earlier, François Guizot was mentioned, but one could also speak of an English economist of the same time, David Ricardo, author of a theory of comparative advantages advocating to produce where it is profitable and not to produce where it is not. The result of this policy was the use of imports, particularly from South America. Let us be careful to avoid reaching such a conclusion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u159	Mr Andre Villiers has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u160	The target of 60% of the area covered by 2030 appears to be quite progressive, perhaps too much. We question the capacity of this reform to achieve the stated goal of universal coverage. I would remind you that the peasants have just been scalded by the disappointed hopes of the EGALIM law. Finally, the agricultural profession is concerned that many issues are referred to orders and orders in the bill. It would be desirable for the modalities to be specified in the text, or for the Government to make at least clear commitments. Minister, I remember the triptych you mentioned earlier: a universal, simpler and more efficient regime. I'm kind enough to give you an appointment. In the meantime, I will support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u161	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u162	I will weigh my words, because I am tetanized when I speak here in the presence of the breeder Jean-Baptiste Moreau, Jean-Paul Dufrègne and other Members who know much better than I do the concrete problems encountered by herbagers. The latter are on the front line in the face of climatic hazards. As everyone knows, adapting farms to climate change is a major long-term challenge. It must therefore be accompanied by a strong security of the farms in the face of climatic hazards, with recurrent extreme events. It remains to be seen whether this bill will address this concern, especially since farmers have the lowest levels of cash flow and profitability. The impact of this bill must therefore be carefully considered. The great specificity of ruminant rearing is that a lack of harvest results not only in a decrease in sales, but also in an additional purchase of fodder and consequently an increase in cash flow difficulties. I come to the point I wanted to make with regard to Article 2. To date, the assessment of prairie losses had to be based on data over a long historical period. I understand that this calculation will now be based on a five-year Olympic average. Is this change an advantage or a disadvantage? I was told it was a disadvantage, but Jean-Paul Dufrègne assures me that it can also be positive. As I do not have enough expertise in this area, I cannot judge it. However, the text provides that the modalities will be determined by decree. Could we, however, have some clarifications? Will the annual average be calculated from the five-year Olympic average or from data over a longer period?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u163	Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u164	This bill provides for three-stage risk management, the first being for the farmer, the second for subsidized insurance and the third for the state. The second stage of the reform is therefore covered by Article 2, which strengthens the system of public management of subsidized insurance contracts. As a result of the bill, the minimum rate of public take-over of contracts increases from 65 per cent to 70 per cent of losses. This Article provides for a reduction from 30 % to 20 % of the loss threshold from which contracts become eligible under the grant mechanism. All these changes are carried out in accordance with European law, the thresholds being defined by decree, which makes it possible to demonstrate collective intelligence in order to respond to the specificities of each sector. Mr. Chassaigne spoke about the risks that the new mechanism would pose, but it is today that there are cash flow problems. Indeed, the drought allowance is often collected at best 18 months after this climatic phenomenon, while it is necessary to buy fodder two or three months after the drought event – even during it. This mechanism is therefore intended to improve the efficiency and speed of the payment of these allowances, as cash is not abounded by the system as it exists today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u165	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 111, which seeks to delete Rule 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u166	By this amendment, we would like to delete this article, which is intended to allow for an increase in subsidies for climate multi-risk insurance premiums. Article 2 aims to cover part of the insurance premiums by raising the maximum subsidy rate from 65 % to 70 %. The surplus of public money will therefore allow private for-profit insurance companies, which we have been talking about for a while, to find a market for farmers with the financial capacity to make sure. Even though with a subsidy rate close to two-thirds, only 18% of the agricultural area is now insured, this surplus of subsidy appears above all as a gift to the few insurance companies that make up this sector – we have already talked about it. Currently, only ten insurers offer these products, with two groups sharing 70% of the market. This scheme seems to be all the more costly because it does not put any brake on the more than likely increase in insurance premiums – such as the one already planned and announced by the insurers for 2022. In the future, therefore, it will certainly be necessary to continue to increase the amount of public money needed to subsidise the operation of the crop insurance market in order to ensure the significant profitability expected of the players in this market. We return to the debate that we had earlier: since the market and the commodification have shown their inefficiency, would there not be a less expensive option – I mentioned the mutualisation just now – and more in line with the general interest? Like the Council of State, which has issued an opinion to this effect, we regret that the impact assessment remains unsatisfactory with regard to the alternative options that could or should have been retained. Thus, a mutual and solidarity professional fund would seem to us to be more economical – since it does not pay shareholders – and more protective for our farmers, their crops and their income, which is still the objective that we all share.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u167	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u168	I'll try to be quick, but this is an important issue. You propose to remove the possibility of taking the omnibus regulation into account in the law. I suggest that you be invited by trade unions to a general assembly and try to justify this point of view to farmers. Good luck! You say we subsidize the insurers. The State is helping to make a product attractive and farmers have access to a cheaper product. It is impossible to say, by looking at the situation from afar, that it is the insurers who benefit from the subsidy. As far as mutual funds are concerned, your approach is perfectly legitimate. We have also considered it in the working group that met within the framework of the Varenne de l'eau et du changement climatique, and we have discussed it. In passing, I welcome the participation of the unions, who, if they oppose the bill today, have remained assiduous throughout the course of the proceedings, taking part in the discussion in a positive spirit. From a budgetary point of view, however, the alternative solution of a mutual fund represents an amount that has nothing to do with our proposal. Be aware that we have done the calculations, because we have examined this hypothesis. Among the possible scenarios – which we have all studied – was that of compulsory public insurance, mutual fund. It was based on the idea that the State should intervene first and that insurance would play a possible role only in a logic, if not in comfort, at least in response to a non-vital need for exploitation. In this case, which is more fiscally burdensome, farmers are assured that the state will maintain and protect agriculture as it is today. But the current logic is not that. Agriculture is going to be transformed, subjected to upheavals. The message that needs to be conveyed is, therefore, that the strategy of each sector and operator must be to avoid as much as possible the risks that are worsening, in a logic of acculturation, calculation and transfer of risks, with the State intervening not first, but last, in the event of a catastrophic disaster. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u169	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 112.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u170	By this amendment, we propose to abolish any subsidy to insurance premiums from the National Fund for the Management of Risks in Agriculture. In this way, we are moving radically in the opposite direction of the bill, which aims to increase subsidies to private insurance in the hope of increasing the coverage rate for farmers. As the current subsidies do not allow the market to function properly, you consider that they should be increased. What do the unequal effects and inefficiencies found before matter? Moreover, and this is important, the FNGRA is financed by all farmers, whose taxes are expected to increase, while a minority of them are covered by insurance. Indeed, the Descrozaille report, produced in the framework of the Varenne de l'eau, provides for a doubling of the dedicated taxes for all farmers and a substantial increase in the contribution of the State. It is only under these conditions that it anticipates a fiscal balance in 2030, and only for less than 50% of farmers. This system is less a matter of run-off or national solidarity, which you are calling back to us than of siphoning the taxes of everyone by the richest. Indeed, a minority of farmers are insured. As a result, their insurance premiums are subsidized by the entire agricultural community – and taxpayers – through the state budget. But only the most easily insurable and easy category of farmers will benefit from it, insofar as it has the cash necessary to pay at least part of these insurance premiums. I don't want to get out of it, these subsidies make it possible to make the business of private insurers profitable, who can take advantage of them to raise their rates. They have already said that they will, since a few weeks after discovering the bill, insurance companies have announced an increase of 15 to 25%. This architecture therefore places the risk of public money being collected for the benefit of insurers. That is why we propose to remove any financial contribution from FNGRA to insurance premiums.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u171	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u172	Unfavorable. I will not repeat the arguments I have just made, but I will add one. You are talking about taxes siphoned by the richest, but I invite you to ask the wine growers and cereal farmers for their views on the current regime, to which they contribute without being eligible. What we are proposing is much more accurate, since the principle that "I therefore contribute I am entitled" becomes universal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u173	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u174	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u175	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u176	I would like to reply to Mr Prud'homme. The reality is that the deletion of the mechanism provided for in Article 2 would call into question the entire three floors of the proposed architecture. The interest of this article is precisely that it increases the maximum subsidy rate for the insurance premium from 65% to 70%. In addition, without this article, the reform of the FNGRA's modalities of intervention in the context of national solidarity would no longer make sense. It is therefore fundamental, and that is why it must be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u177	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor to support Amendment No. 72.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u178	The purpose of this amendment is to clarify that the public subsidy share could also vary depending on the cost of insurance contracts. If the maximum subsidy rate of 70% could not be applied to all production sectors, the change in this rate based on the cost of the contract would be an interesting way to better take account of the reality of the insurance context. In a context of rising rates for MRC insurance contracts – Groupama announced for 2022 increases of between 10% and 15%, or even 25% for certain crops – it is necessary to ensure that the level of public subsidy is maximum for productions that are difficult to insurable. I am thinking of diversified market gardening, beekeeping, aromatic and medicinal plants, for which the rates offered by the insurers are in fact the highest.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u179	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u180	This amendment is already satisfactory, my dear colleague. I insist, because it is very important: as it is written, the text takes almost word for word what is planned at Community level. In other words, it guarantees that by 2023 the State will be able to compensate exactly the same conditions as today under the agricultural calamities regime – including for herbager breeders, Mr. Chassaigne. Variations in FNGRA's coverage from 30 per cent of losses take into account the nature of the risk and the terms of the contract in order to provide as much flexibility as possible and to make the reform as painless as possible, since it is a question of persuading, as entry into the scheme is optional. We will take as long as it takes for that to happen. CODAR will monitor the implementation of the scheme. I know that all this was misunderstood by some and worried them: this is the time to reassure. Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u181	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u182	Same opinion. I will insist on two points, starting with what the rapporteur has just said, which is essential. There have indeed been fears. I would point out that before Mr Descrozaille, another committee had worked on the subject for almost a year and a half. In this context, proposals had been put forward, which had emerged from the consultation, calling for a reduction in the attractiveness of the agricultural disaster regime in order to promote insurance membership with a view to improving the system. It is precisely to this conclusion that I objected and that is why I asked Frédéric Descrozaille to draft his report and pleaded with the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic that what was in my view the only solution, namely not to degrade the interest of one to favour the other, but to introduce the notion of national solidarity to convince farmers to turn to this new system. The second point I want to stress is that the text will allow us to accompany farmers, with more so-called schemes than before, while being dynamic in terms of the reality of the field, i.e. whether or not there are really accessible insurance offers. As for the amendment, I think it is counterproductive. Under no circumstances should the legislator provide that the premium level depends on the cost of the insurance, except to encourage the insurer to increase the premium level. Because if the level of subsidy depends on the level of the premiums, it will create in some insurers the idea of increasing the premiums due to competition,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u183	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u184	[[Smile]] ...obliging us then to increase the level of subsidy – and for the farmer, zero profit! This is exactly the opposite of what it takes for the system to benefit the farmer and not the insurer – but I do not want to make it seem that I am even more left-wing than MM. Potier, Dufrègne, Bricout and Chassaigne. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the premium level in the text depends on the nature of production, that is to say, its context.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u185	Has the amendment been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u186	I withdraw our amendment because I recognize that its wording is confusing. But if it is wrongly drafted in legal terms, I would like to restore its motivation: the summary statement makes it clear that it is where there is a lack of insurability due to the mode of production that more needs to be subsidized. Let there be no misunderstanding about our intention!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u187	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor to support Amendment No. 113.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u188	This withdrawal amendment proposes to keep the subsidy rate at 65%. Like our previous amendment, it was drafted with the Peasant Confederation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u189	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u190	Unfavorable notice on the same grounds as I have already explained to you, the Minister's clarifications that have just been provided in addition to my argument.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u191	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 109.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u192	It is an amendment of reflection. I would point out that, in the present state of law, the loss threshold from which the State can subsidize is 30%. The Community omnibus regulation reduced it to 20%. The Government therefore proposes in this article to be based on 20 per cent. The aim of this amendment is to reserve this new threshold for the most difficult cases, i.e. for arboriculture and grasslands, the impact study showing that in these two sectors the insurance costs are very high. They're the ones who have to help the most. For the others, that would be 25 per cent, an improvement already over the existing system, i.e. 30 per cent. Perhaps you will tell me that you agree with me but that you will proceed by regulation, Minister. Anyway, I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u193	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u194	I am against this amendment, Mr de Courson, because I believe that it is necessary to state in the text that the Government can go as far as possible as the omnibus regulation allows, for all sectors. I can tell you that for field crops, the 20% threshold is very high, because the risks that threaten them the most are not so much typical freezing disasters, which can ruin 100% of an orchard, as the recurrence of average risks, that is between 20% and 40% of losses. I would of course have loved to be able to announce immediately to the channels: "We will start from 2023 with full pot omnibus. But I respect the spirit of the reform: we are defining its legal framework today; It will then be up to Parliament to draw the budgetary consequences in the next legislature. I personally believe that this regulation will have to be applied in full in 2023 for all sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u195	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u196	Same opinion, for exactly the same reasons. I stress that thresholds with financial implications can only be established in a finance bill, regardless of whether they are deductible or total grant rates, and that their application is specified by regulation. But the Government's position is already very clear: it will be 600 million euros of subsidy to insurance and compensation for crop losses in 2023. Secondly, I strongly support the implementation of the omnibus regulation by going as far as possible. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to the need for a very pragmatic approach. If I am in favour of using the full-pot omnibus regulation, what interests me at the end of the day is the price paid by the farmer. Here's my only compass, my only anchor. To return to the discussion we have just had, if the increase in the subsidy of the insurance contract leads to that of the premium, I will not be part of this game. In this regard, I refer to Article 7 on the regulation of the actuarial system, which is essential. The Government will be all the more comfortable to use the full-pot omnibus rule as your assembly will have been ambitious on Article 7. It's very important. Finally, I would point out that the whole balance of the system is based on three criteria: the franchise, the subsidy rate, but also the threshold, because, depending on the level of the latter, the insurer does not assume the same level of responsibility, does not have to predict the same number of assets against risk, and changes the price he charges the farmer. It is therefore a sector by sector, a culture by culture, that everything must be studied, hence the importance of having an ambition on Article 7 to ensure that what is going to succeed is done well by the farmer and not by the insurer. This is not a reform for insurers, but a reform for farmers. It's obvious, but it's better to say it. Having said that, I really want to welcome insurers who, for some of them, are also looking for solutions for the sustainability of the scheme: let us not fall into caricature or even stigma. You know like me some insurers that are close to the territory. But I repeat that this is a reform for farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u197	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u198	If I tabled this amendment, it was in order to give you a pole and allow you to say that you would make the most important efforts towards arboriculture and grasslands, because it is in these two sectors that the insurance problems are the most acute. You didn't want to go so far in your answer...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u199	Yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u200	It was enough to tell me that I should withdraw my amendment, Mr.Minister, since that was his purpose. Mr rapporteur, you refer to the finance law – but yes and no, since it is the regulatory power that will then fix the rates, sector by sector. Given that budgetary resources are limited, my amendment was intended to encourage the Government to concentrate aid on these two sectors, since all impact studies show that this is where the problem is most difficult.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u201	Is the amendment withdrawn, Mr de Courson?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u202	I expect a clear answer from the minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u203	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u204	I really want to bounce back on what you're saying, Mr. de Courson, so there's no misunderstanding. Today, the sectors you refer to are considered non-insurable and benefit from CNGRA's interventions. As we create a universal system, we will include other cultures. Some fear that this will happen to the detriment of those who are already insured, but the answer is no, archi no! I keep repeating that this reform is based only on its fundamental principle, the increase in national solidarity. It will therefore not lead at all to a transfer from one to another. Let's stop saying to the farmers: "Get on your own. As guarantors of our country's agri-food sovereignty, we must tell them: "Whoever you are, insurable or not insurable today, we have in mind that you cannot face it alone, so we come to help you, but not in the existing sphere, since it will be at most. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u205	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u206	I withdraw my amendment, Mr.Minister, but it remains unclear whether the increase from $300 million to $600 million will solve the underlying problem by focusing on the most difficult sectors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u207	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 172.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u208	[[Smile]] It aims to ensure that trade union organisations are consulted. Mr rapporteur, in committee, you told me that it was acquired. Good Auvergnat, I told you, I never buy a donkey in a bag. I therefore prefer that things be specified in the law – even if this mention is in your opinion a kind of pleonasm, since you find it obvious. I would like to take this opportunity to comment on your remarks about herbagers. In your opinion, they will not lose from what they are now suffering under the agricultural disaster regime. Your argument may also mean that their situation will probably not be better taken into account as climate hazards multiply. All of this needs to be clarified. The EUR 600 million that the minister was talking about should not benefit just a few, while others, who could have benefited from it, should not see their insurance system improve. It is also essential that insurers do not territorialize insurance premiums – you have made this decision in committee, minister, and I take note of it. Within the framework of national solidarity, the amount of premiums must be the same, by production, throughout the country. It can't be variable geometry depending on the location...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u209	Threshold!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u210	I understand that that was what you said, but I may have been wrong. In that case, you will correct. I may have lacked insight.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u211	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u212	If you will, Mr Chassaigne, we will discuss the harmonization of the level of premiums at a later stage, as it is discussed in other articles. I have told you, as you have reminded me, and I repeat to you: your amendment is satisfactory, since CODAR – it will be necessary to say CODAR if we adopt the amendment which aims to transform the committee into a committee – is the product of CNGRA. Your motivations are perfectly legitimate, and I fully agree with your objective, but it would be superfate to introduce into the text the device provided for in your amendment. I therefore ask you to withdraw it. I'm not a lawyer, but it's a matter of good legislating.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u213	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u214	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u215	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 48.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u216	Today, around EUR 300 million is spent annually between subsidies for private insurance and the scheme for agricultural disasters – the rapporteur has just confirmed this amount to me; tomorrow, with your strength of conviction, Minister, you will put 600 million on the table to make the regime universal. Our amendment seeks to clarify the nature of private insurance which will complement the insurance system of our producers, because there is private insurance and private insurance. Some private insurances fall almost under the social economy regime: profits are reinvested and shared with the insured. On the other hand, other insurers, at the top of the CAC40, have practices in tax havens and distracted most of the added value in choices that have nothing to do with what we are looking for, whether in terms of food security, the maintenance of our producers, spatial planning... When we guarantee private insurance to the tune of 600 million euros, I think we can ask that they meet a minimum of ethical requirements. I do not claim to be dealing with Emmaus's companions or the Little Brothers of the Poor, but if one considers the European taxonomy, one could ask, for example, that insurers undertake to respect not only the law, but the spirit of the law, that they practise a sharing of value, in short, that they join the mutualist movement. Unless we are part of a mutual system of CVO as we dreamed of on the left, we ask, in a logic of compromise, that appears in the debates of CODAR – since the text refers to CODAR and the ordinances – the requirement that the insurers who will be partners of this New Agricultural Deal for food security be ethical insurers, insurers who work for the real economy and not for the speculative economy, the one that escapes in tax havens. Don't tell me it's not possible: it's a matter of political will. Such a concern can be echoed far beyond our ranks and shared. I hope to obtain favourable opinions – if we have to draft a sub-amendment, I am sure we will find accomplices on the left as well as on the right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u217	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u218	You give me the opportunity to bring a nuance to a previous debate: I did not think specifically of Guizot speaking of enrichment. Coupidity, pettyness are not the prerogative of fat people or rich people...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u219	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u220	Likewise, generosity and the spirit of collective action are not the prerogative of the little ones or people in difficulty. I fully agree with the objective of your amendment, which, however, has no normative scope. I would like to ask you, once again, to withdraw an amendment which does not add anything to the content of the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u221	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u222	I would add that the arguments put forward relate in fact to the functioning of the grouping of insurers, i.e. Article 7 and CODAR, i.e. Article 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u223	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u224	Obviously, Mr. Potier, we all agree. You want to favour insurers who "commit themselves not only to the law, but to the spirit of the law" – but they must all do so, whether they are "ethical" insurers or not! We are in democracy: they must respect 100% of the meaning and spirit of the law. The question does not arise. If they do not, they must be tried for non-compliance with the law. I have worked on these issues before, and I can tell you that the regulatory framework, whether at international level – I am thinking of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) – or at national level – I am thinking of the various laws in force, some of which you and some of your colleagues are very committed to – must prevail over all the activities of insurers, whatever they may be, as long as they work in our country and even in Europe – and this is not just about crop insurance. Your amendment has something strange. Incorporating what you are proposing in the legislation would imply that for other industries, it would be less serious if insurers were not ethical or respectful of the meaning and spirit of the law. No! The regulation applies to all insurers. A non-ethical insurer – one may wonder what non-ethics is, even if the OECD defines a number of rules in this area – is also part of the unfettered regulation of insurers. I insist: the bill has virtues that it allows national solidarity to benefit farmers by guaranteeing, in particular in section 7, the regulation of insurers. I call for the amendment to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u225	Mr Potier, do you withdraw the amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u226	There are, however, few insurance systems to which the state contributes EUR 600 million or which it subsidizes at 70% as provided for in the bill that we are going to vote for. We'd subsidize a 70% insurer, and some of his profits would escape into tax havens? Don't tell me it doesn't exist: these escapes may not be morally acceptable, but they have a legal existence. As legislators, we still have the right, without referring to CODAR and co-management, to ensure that the insurance system that we support and subsidise does not fuel speculation or the funds of tax havens, but that it is a logic of ethical social market economy, with transparent value-sharing rules. Don't tell me it can't be "coded." The European taxonomy, for which the Secretary of State for the Social, Solidarity and Responsible Economy, Olivia Grégoire, is fighting, must make it possible to distinguish, for savers and for all public and private operators, good savings from bad savings, good investments from bad ones. Before 2023, we can perfectly impose conditions as we have already done in other pieces of legislation, especially since this time frame corresponds to that of the bill. It's possible; It is only a matter of political will. [[Ms. Émilie Cariou applauds]] With our experience as a producer, we know that the entry of a European subsidy into a market, for a suckler cow or for another production tool, can sometimes lead to an increase in prices that benefits the seller rather than the buyer. I wouldn't want that pattern to happen again with the insurance. It is therefore essential to choose a range of insurers that meet the requirements of the real economy, not the speculative economy and tax evasion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u227	So you're not withdrawing your amendment?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u228	Not at all! Its adoption even conditions the positive vote of the Socialist and related group on the bill!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u229	I propose to give the floor to three speakers: Mr Pradié, Mr Chassaigne and Mr Turquois. Mr Aurélien Pradié has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u230	During each review of a bill, parliamentarians debate the scope of the act and the regulation. It is our work, and it is a good thing that we remain vigilant guardians of what is within the realm of the law in order to ensure the widest possible approach. But if there is one subject for which the last adjustments, the last details, can change everything from the intention of the law, that is the one. For example, when it comes to defining exactly what we call loss, how it is calculated beyond the 20% threshold provided for in the legal framework, the solution chosen can absolutely change everything. As you know, Minister, the biggest discussions with agricultural professionals in years have focused on the definition of loss, sometimes related to stocks for certain agricultural products. Because all of this will come under regulatory authority, it seems to me essential that you and your successors be able to regularly and accurately report to us on the definition of the details: everything will hold in the definition of these details. If, tomorrow, we are not able to adapt scrupulously to the different productions, for example when we define loss, then the whole system will be dead letter. I note that when, a few decades ago, the public authorities pushed private insurers to ensure agricultural production – at the time, the public authorities were pushing the private sector in this area – they had left their hands to define the criteria for calculating losses... That's when everything collapsed. That is what is behind the current system, which no longer works. In other words, the definition of details is not an obsession of parliamentarians; This is what will make the text live or not live.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u231	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u232	[[Smile]] I do not share all of Dominique Potier's spiritual commitments or Sunday practices, but we find ourselves on certain values, on certain notions of ethics and what can be called morals. To the extent that public money is given to private insurers, it must be possible to ask them for commitments that may take the form of a charter. That should be clarified in the amendment. That is why I will ask for a suspension of the sitting at the end of my remarks so that we can work together on a sub-amendment that my group will support. What also brings us closer, Dominique Potier and I, is – at the risk of surprising you – that we do not believe in acts of faith, at least in the political field. Things must be inscribed in the marble of the law, otherwise all drifts are possible. As I said before, 70% of the insurance is done by two operators. Others will no doubt intervene, especially as they will be able to enter the farms and take market shares. There will probably be a great battle. It is therefore preferable for the law to be clear, and we are going to draft a sub-amendment to that effect with our socialist colleagues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u233	If you will allow me, Mr Chassaigne, before we suspend the sitting, I propose that you hear Mr Turquois who wished to react.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u234	And me! It's misogyny, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u235	Ms. Cariou, who had subsequently registered, might wish to speak at the resumed meeting. Mr. Nicolas Turquois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u236	I am quite shocked by the ongoing suspicion of the insurers involved in the agricultural sector. In this case, they are mainly two. Their names were cited: Pacifica and Groupama. If this market is so profitable, why do other insurance players not intervene in the field of agricultural insurance? In fact, we are talking about an extremely difficult risk. I invite you, in your territories, to participate in the general meetings of the local caisses : you will see that the loss report on contributions reaches 130%. Which insurer should continue to participate in this kind of system? The reality is there! This leads to continuous inflation of insurance contributions in order to make up for it. It is therefore through State intervention to cover the most important risks that the system can be rebalanced by allowing other actors to take an interest in this insurance sector in order to establish healthier competition. I believe in the role of the CODAR committee to put the figures on the table and to avoid a number of the bounty effects that you suspect, but let us stop the constant suspicion against mutualist actors. We must not be naive, but I find this speech completely outdated and ill-placed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u237	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u238	As the minister said, it is a reform for farmers and for agriculture. That is why, in the wake of Mr Turquois, I wanted to point out that the main insurances in the agricultural sector are composed of actors who, on the ground, live on a daily basis the risks that farmers face and against which they guarantee themselves. Let us not oppose each other as it happens too often in parliamentary debates. Contrary to what I have been hearing for a few moments, the opposition between agricultural insurance and farmers does not have to be.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u239	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u240	In this kind of situation, I am rather embarrassed: one could give the impression of being against virtuous and responsible behaviors encouraged by some. In my view, if we consider that a number of financial institutions do not have virtuous and responsible behaviour, you, as a legislator, must act within the framework of a specific law to combat non-virtuous and non-accountable behaviour, not on the occasion of each bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u242	Otherwise, the text could be sub-modified to take into account other criteria, such as carbon balance, parity, etc. The logic of the bill is to help farmers. I will also insist on an important point. As you will understand, I do not hold a speech of complacency with the insurers – for years I have paid to see. Nevertheless, as has just been done by Messrs. Turquois and Dive, I salute the insurers who are in the field today. Many farmers complain about insurance premiums that are too high and they are right, but they also thank insurers for being with them. It should also be noted that the aid is not paid to insurers, but to farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u243	Yes, it makes a difference!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u244	Indeed, it is still a difference. It's not a subsidy to insurers. In addition, allow me a little comment on the operational nature of the device you are proposing. If instead of dealing with the subject at the root, the state services must always ask all farmers in France and Navarre what the nature of their insurance contract is, then look for the origin of the contract and the insurer in question in order to judge with which authority if the latter is ethical and responsible, we will add processing times – that is very nice, but it will be to the detriment of the farmers themselves. We need to legislate in the right place and at the right time. I am a fervent advocate of ethics and accountability, but I do not see how Mr.Potier's amendment, even under-amended, could hang on to the issue that concerns us – if not generically and therefore not in this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u245	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u246	The meeting was resumed. If I followed correctly what happened during the suspension of the sitting, it seems to me that President Chassaigne will present to us sub-amendment 276.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u247	This is a particularly sharp sub-amendment, allowing us to clarify the thinking of our socialist colleagues in order to achieve the desired objective. The sentence should be added: "A list of authorised insurers shall be drawn up on the basis of the European taxonomy as soon as it is adopted in European and French law. It is a clarity that I believe should convince you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u249	More than 2,000 agents work in the field for insurers of a variety of types. We create a device so that things go fast and that – pass me the expression – the mayonnaise takes it from 2023. We need everyone. I have had many contacts with these agents and I think they have a say in what the functioning of CODAR will be – we will talk about it in Article 5. If we vote what you're proposing, we're going to scare everyone. We need all the actors, if only to be more effective in compensating for exceptional losses, i.e. to go faster than the state services today. We are not going to start sorting out and weighing up the reform even before it comes into force. I think it's unwise. In order to ensure that this reform is not diverted and remains at the service of farmers, I maintain that Articles 5 and 7 do not require the insurers to implement the reform by 2023 without consideration or obligations. I therefore reiterate my request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u251	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u252	Mrs Emilie Cariou has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u253	I agree with the Socialist and Related Group's amendment and with the GDR Group's sub-amendment. As has been pointed out, we are entering here, because of the support of the State, into a "delicate" scheme for private insurers, who will profit from all this – the aim of an insurance company is to achieve a profit, a positive result. Beyond a certain level of loss, the risk will no longer be borne by insurers; This is not the type of risk borne by insurers in normal time. To ask for commitments in ethical terms, in terms of compliance with certain standards, therefore seems interesting to me. This goes beyond the legal framework of tax evasion. Mr Potier is thinking in particular of a ban on having subsidiaries in non-cooperative third states – today it is allowed. There, ethical actors will be chosen, who will not derive excessive profit margins from their contribution and premium levels. Mr Chassaigne proposed an additional level of regulation. What we are asking you, in short, is to regulate this device, but I know that we are unlikely to succeed: in general, you do not like regulation...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u254	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u255	...and that's a shame, because I think a good economy is a regulated economy. It's about avoiding drifts. Believe me, the goal of the insurers is not to make mutualism!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u256	Mrs Danielle Brulebois has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u257	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] The 600 million euros will not go to insurance: we must not let him believe! And farmers still have enough common sense to know where to make sure. I note that they often appeal to the social and solidarity economy, to insurances like Groupama, who certainly need profitability and growth to pay their employees, but whose statutes are based on a principle of social utility and solidarity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u259	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u260	This amendment does not, of course, target historical actors who are rooted in the territories and who are part of the social economy: don't get me wrong, Mr Turquois! We are on a new level, Émilie Cariou said it perfectly, with a kind of assurance from the insurer and the possible arrival of people with less ethical concerns than the two historical actors we have mentioned. It is therefore a matter of framing it, with the European taxonomy allowing us to do so. It is very simple, Minister, it does not create any administrative complexity. Once CODAR has decided that ten insurers are licensed, the market will do its job and there will be no need for administrative control behind it. It's simple, efficient, ethical.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u261	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u262	I have been a member of the Government for almost five years and I do not know how many hours I have spent in this House. On the ground, the French tell us that they can no longer stand standards, which we put absolutely everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u263	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u264	There may be some normative inflation, but let us remember that the norm is not just administration. We do a lot of administration-bashing, but the administration doesn't like the standard more than that: 90% or 95% of the standards on which it spends time are taken in fulfilment of what you decide. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] I have no lessons to learn about regulation, Mrs. Cariou. The EGALIM 2 law is a great law of regulation – regulation that a certain majority had "unzingued" with the law of modernization of the economy, called LME law. You gave up regulation, because you didn't believe it anymore, but macroism is to liberate and protect! We regulate when we have to regulate! I am introducing a bill on agriculture today. So table a bill to impose the same clauses on the insurance of your permanences! Why not, after all?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u265	I agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u266	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] But we are discussing a bill on agriculture. Let's stop mixing the genres by saying that some are for ethics and that all the others are not, because that's not true! We've got to show the subjects, or we can't make it anymore!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u267	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u268	We can only support this bill and the IDU and independent group will vote for it. When I look at section 3, I still have two questions, or rather two requests. First of all, we must guarantee the full application of sliders for all productions and for all types of contracts. I have had the opportunity to study the bill with representatives of the agricultural world in my home in the Vosges, and that is a real request from them. However, this is not currently the case in Article 3. We should move forward on this issue so that all productions are concerned. Secondly, I would like to clarify the way in which the agricultural disaster fund and the disaster risk fund are to operate, in order to reverse the logic of the current scheme by identifying non-insurable risks and integrating them into the overall scheme.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u269	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u270	[[Smile]] Minister, I assure you, my tenure is assured in Groupama.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u271	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u272	Here, a little free publicity... We are not up against your reform. We recognize significant progress, but it is also our role to insist on particular situations, particularly those I mentioned earlier, which are likely to end up with 50% less compensation. As I say again, farmers in difficulty should be the subject of further reflection. In previous years we have had accompanying measures for farmers in difficulty. Recovery plans are under way: should a special gesture be made for farmers in this situation? [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] We did not have an answer to President Chassaigne's question about the five-year period, particularly in relation to the prairies, where appreciation is sometimes somewhat complicated. If we make 50 quintals on a wheat crop of 80 quintals – I take fanciful figures – we see the difference, we know the price of wheat and the bases compensated; However, poorly established grasslands may produce less in subsequent years, and the incidence is not limited to grassland production. I know, for example, that herds of lactating cattle affected by drought have less fertility. There may also be an impact on carcass weights. In short, there are particularities in some territories and these need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u273	Mr Fabien Matras has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u274	As a Member of Parliament for an electoral district that is regularly affected by climate events, I can only welcome this bill, and my colleague Philippe Michel-Kleisbauer here today associates himself with my remarks. After the terrible floods we experienced in 2010 in Draguignan, the Var is hit almost every year by the weather that hit our territories and farmers. Each time, farms are put at financial risk and jobs are threatened. This is just one example among so many in our country. Global warming will only aggravate an already tense situation. We met with the minister last year, and this bill responds to their demands in that it secures and improves compensation for catastrophic events – this is the purpose of section 3. It also organises the insurance system to allow better compensation for farmers. As you said, minister, this is a law for farmers. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Beyond individual situations, it is our sovereignty that is at stake. I wish to congratulate Mr Descrozaille on his work and the report that has been delivered. Minister, thank you for hearing the farmers' requests and for taking this important subject with you. Thanks to this text, national solidarity will be on the side of farmers for a system of universal compensation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u275	We come to the amendments to Article 3. Mr Loïc Prud'homme, in support of Amendment No. 114, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u276	We propose to remove the unequal assignment of the third section of the FNGRA. This article provides that uninsured farmers may receive only compensation amounting to not more than 50% of the compensation which would be received on average by insured farmers. This question of 50% is problematic, because it is a ceiling, the maximum, and it is intended to be reduced. As the proposals submitted during the Varenne Agricole de l'eau et du changement climatique note, this rate of compensation is intended to reach zero for the uninsured in 2030. It is first of all a question of twisting farmers' arms to force them to make sure – you can use the word "inciting" instead, but the result is the same: it is, whatever you think, a constraint. The path of the system consists of increasing the torsion level of the arm of the recalcitrant farmers to the point of fracture, with a zero rate of compensation. In order to prevent some farmers from ultimately receiving zero compensation when the full strategy of your bill is completed, we propose to delete this clause.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u277	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u278	Without going back to the argument I developed earlier, let me make a point. Do not confuse, Mr. Prud'homme, the report I submitted on behalf of the Working Group on Risk Management and Crop Insurance Development at the Varenne Agricole de l'eau et du changement climatique, with the bill. It is not false modesty to recall that this report, which contained indicative data, was primarily the result of collective work. If we look today at the bill to reform climate risk management tools in agriculture, it is because of the determination of the minister, but it is also because of this long-awaited and accountable collective work. As for the gradual reduction in the number of uninsured persons, it will result from the proliferation of actors on the ground and there is no need to clarify it in the bill. I talked about it as chair of the working group because I saw the growing number of insurance professionals harvest. It is they who will implement the reform, thanks to the word of mouth and the work of conviction of the trade unions and consular chambers. Many farmers are waiting for this incentive, defending acculturation at risk and wanting to break with the idea that there is no point in ensuring that the state is there in the event of a natural disaster. We must foster accountability in parallel with the process of adapting to global warming. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u279	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u280	Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u281	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u282	On the issue of risk acculturation, let me remind you that the vast majority of farmers are not in the status quo: they understand, adapt to and face climate risks. Losing a harvest is unbearable after a year of labor. For farmers as for any entrepreneur, seeing his work destroyed by a climate hazard is intolerable. It is not true that the agricultural profession is attentist on the grounds that the State will compensate for losses due to the weather and that there is FNGRA! This argument is not admissible and does not reflect the reality of the profession.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u283	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 4, 81, 98, 136, 155, 188 and 207. Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u284	Mr President, allow me a little bit of a break to reply to the minister, which you did not allow me to do earlier. You claim, Minister, that the EGALIM 2 law is a law of regulation: certainly, but a law regulating the failures of the first EGALIM law, which your majority had defended! End of the parenthesis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u285	It's a little easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u286	We can also remind you of the laws that you have supported!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u287	The reform we are debating introduces a new climate risk management regime in agriculture. The creation of a universal compensation scheme open to all farmers, whether insured or not, requires a perfect link between crop insurance and the so-called catastrophic risk fund. The bill maintains the agricultural disaster fund for risks that would not fall under the new scheme. The accumulation of the agricultural disaster fund with the single window created by the bill is a source of complexity and confusion. This amendment, which we are many to defend and to which I associate my colleague Dino Cinieri, is intended to enable the FNGRA to contribute to the compensation of losses related to "disabling" or non-insurable risks. This would reverse the current logic of agricultural disasters by considering that any climate risk is insurable in principle, except for certain listed risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u288	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 81.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u289	The bill sets the framework for a new climate risk management regime in agriculture. It could have included health risks, which hinder the activity of many of our farms and which we will have to worry about sooner or later. It is essential that Article 3 provides for a perfect link between crop insurance and the "disaster" risk compensation fund. The cumulation of devices would be a source of complexity. This amendment therefore proposes simplification by reversing the current logic of agricultural disasters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u290	Amendment No 98 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz is being defended. I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 136.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u291	As my colleagues have said, the accumulation of the agricultural disaster fund with the single window introduced by the bill is a source of complexity, could lead to incomprehensions and could mitigate the innovative nature of the reform. That is why we are many to propose a different wording of Article 3 with a view to simplification.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u292	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 155.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u293	To complement the previous interventions, I would like to point out that the amendment is intended to allow the third section of the FNGRA to contribute to the compensation of losses arising from the occurrence of a "disaster" or non-insurable climate risk. Minister, this is a useful amendment. I thank you in advance for listening kindly to our arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u294	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 188.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u295	This amendment is important because it will simplify the architecture of the scheme by removing the reference to the agricultural disaster fund and by integrating the provision of compensation for non-insurable or "disaster" risks into the FNGRA.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u296	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 207.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u297	It has been perfectly defended by previous speakers!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u298	What is the opinion of the committee on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u299	It is unfavourable for two reasons. First of all, with regard to the simplification objective of the amendments, it turns out that the retention of the agricultural disaster fund in the bill is necessary, from a legal point of view, for the loss of funds – I myself recently discovered this legal subtlety. It should be remembered that this fund represents about EUR 15 million, which is very little compared to all the risks to be covered. The continuation of the scheme created in 1964 and modified in 2006 and 2010 is, however, essential to cover the losses of funds. I myself would have preferred the new device to replace the old one, but that is not possible. Secondly, these amendments introduce the idea that a list of non-insurable risks could be drawn up at national level. With this bill, on the contrary, we want to avoid it. Uninsurable risks for which sectors and for how long? The aim of CODAR and the monitoring of the application of the law – on which we will return to Article 5 – will be precisely to define the ever-changing boundary between insurable and non-insurable risks, while taking into account the solidarity constraint on insurers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u300	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor in support of Amendment No 49.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u301	It aims to clarify that the loss threshold from which national solidarity will be mobilised will also be set, for each production, according to the insurance context. In view of the high prices of crop-based climate risk insurance contracts for certain crops, it should be ensured that the FNGRA can be operated from a lower threshold for hard-to-insurable crops, such as diversified market gardening, beekeeping or the cultivation of aromatic and medicinal plants.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u302	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u303	I would ask you to withdraw the amendment, Mrs Jourdan, because he is satisfied with the Government's amendment No 256, which we are going to consider a little further. Your amendment raises, in fact, the question of farmers' access to insurance – the most emblematic case, I repeat, is that of herbag farmers. Article 3 refers to an implementing decree to fix, according to the nature of the productions and, where appropriate, according to the type of insurance contracts subscribed, the loss threshold, of at least 30 % under European law, in order to qualify for FNGRA. The article also provides for differentiated arrangements for farmers' compensation – the rate of compensation may be 100%. Thus, the conditions under which herbagers will be compensated will be smoothed in 2023 in the event that insurers do not submit attractive insurance policies sufficiently quickly, covering risks of between 20% and 30% of losses. In summary, Article 3 allows for the failure of the insurance offer to be taken into account, and Amendment No. 256 of the Government specifies this in full letter. I therefore invite you to withdraw your amendment, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u304	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u305	As I have said on several occasions, the bill creates a new architecture. It remains to be seen whether the next majority will wish to take action. The President of the Republic has been clear: an envelope of €600 million will be devoted to national solidarity for climate risks in agriculture. I told you myself that we wanted to get the most out of the omnibus regulation. The reform we are undertaking is a reform for farmers and aims at actuarial regulation of insurers. If, tomorrow, another majority comes to power and refuses to implement this reform, then it will be the status quo. It would be tragic, in my opinion, but at least there would be this status quo. The bill guarantees that. [[Exclaims on the benches of the LR group. – Applause on several benches of the LaREM group]] [[Smile]] With all the consideration I have for Mr Dive, I would like to inform him that the EGALIM 2 law did not come to regulate the first EGALIM law, but the LME law of 2008. But you know what a majority of them were on the initiative! I tell you with all the consideration I have for you, especially since I know that you know it! As for the question of whether non-insurable cultures should be reintroduced, the distinction between them is indeed a profound mistake. As you pointed out, Mr Villiers, during the freezing episode, we were unable to support certain crops with the agricultural calamities fund because they were considered insurable. I will therefore oppose all the amendments aimed at reintroducing this distinction. As the rapporteur has pointed out, the question is not so much whether crops are insurable or not insurable as to allow the State to intervene in a universal framework taking into account the insurable context. Clearly, when insurers fail, national solidarity must be fully exercised. We propose to put an end to the dichotomy which we have created ourselves and which prevents us from supporting certain sectors. Of course, it is not a question of reducing our support for those who already benefit from it – I say for Mr Chassaigne – hence the additional funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u306	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u307	This is a very small clarification amendment, aimed at coordinating the third and fifth paragraphs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u308	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u309	As in committee, I would ask you to withdraw it for the benefit of your amendment No 187.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u310	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u311	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u312	Mr Antoine Herth, in support of Amendment No. 198, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u313	This is a 'Stabilo amendment'. The text proposed by the Government and resulting from the work of the commission already says that compensation for a risk will be more favourable once the farmer has entered into an insurance contract for that risk, but the amendment clarifies and reinforces this provision to ensure the incentive nature of the bill, which aims to encourage farmers to make sure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u314	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u315	As I said in committee, precision is useful. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u316	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u317	Positive opinion, too. With regard to the famous rate of 50%, I propose to Antoine Herth, André Chassaigne, Dominique Potier and Loïc Prud'homme, if they wish, to withdraw the figure from the text during the parliamentary shuttle and simply specify "in accordance with current European law". I'm really ready to do that, which should make them even more confident!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u318	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 173.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u319	Minister, respect for European law is sometimes of varying geometry. There is no shortage of injunctions for European directives that are not applied! The fifth paragraph of Article 3, which I request to be deleted, is very important because it deals with approved interlocutors. Curiously, this paragraph states: "Indemnification may be paid by a network of authorized interlocutors acting on behalf of the State. One might have thought that management or evaluation would be the responsibility of these authorized interlocutors, but that is compensation. This means that there will be approved interlocutors, of which we do not know where they will come from – apparently representatives of private companies or insurance companies, or possibly officials, as you said in committee – who will intervene with farmers. It is clear that it is in fact a matter of replacing the human means of FNGRA with private actors who will replace them to manage the compensation. Another problem is that it may give rise to infringements of the personal data of farms, since authorised interlocutors will have access to the reality of what is happening there and to economic information about their management. It should not be forgotten that, when these interlocutors are insurance representatives, their objective will not only be to manage the compensation: they will also want to expand their portfolio and, once they have set foot on the farm, they will seek assurances other than the one that justified their displacement. In doing so, the public authorities are effectively abandoning a part of their tasks: this is in fact tantamount to carrying out a delegation of public service in favour of the main insurance companies which, by offering climate-related multi-risk insurance contracts, will endeavour to place other insurance contracts thanks to their agents enjoying the status of authorised interlocutors. Mr rapporteur and Mr Minister, you have not been very clear about these agreed interlocutors, including in committee. Again, you're trying to get us to buy a donkey in a bag; In Auvergne, we don't like it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u320	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u321	Mr President Chassaigne, we have before us a pencil drawing on which you have just put a lot of black; I'll try to add some color. What is behind the creation of approved interlocutors – as you know very well – is the desire to make compensation faster and more effective. Today, the functioning of the FNGRA is certainly perfectly respectable, but it is slow: before you can compensate, you have to set up a commission, make field visits and investigate a case, and then the state has to make a decision. Compensation may only be awarded more than 12 months after the claim has been assessed. It is therefore simply a question of enabling the State to provide itself with the means to be more effective in this field, in the context of a call for tenders. What do you have against tendering? Something comes to mind about this: I have been recruiting for three years for the leisure centre sector. In this case, the communities entrust to private actors, in a competitive market, the care of children. The device is completely framed, very rigorously defined and completely regulated; private operators comply with a public specification. In the present case, it is a matter of allowing operators to intervene, who will be able to assess and compensate the loss more quickly. You see everything in black; For my part, I see a new device that is faster and more efficient. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u323	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u324	Again, I understand what you're saying, but the animal in the bag you're talking about doesn't get away; You have to push him! This is an intangible principle. In this case, Mr Chassaigne, I am not trying to shoot you, but I am not explaining your fear. Indeed, the authorized contact person is, by default, DDT – the departmental direction of the territories – and, if you do not want to speak to another operator, you can continue to go through it. But do a small survey among the farmers around you: despite the remarkable work our agents do on the ground – I take my hat from them – how much are satisfied while a year and a half after the drought, the compensation for agricultural disasters has still not been paid to them? Then – this is my second point – in the current situation, above 30% of losses, no compensation is provided for anyone who is not insured, including in the prairie, since CNGRA starts to intervene when losses exceed 30% of the average annual production. And yet, only 1% of our farmers are covered by prairie insurance. Let us take the example of a farmer who, because we have managed to reduce the cost of this insurance, will be covered for losses between 20 and 30 per cent of its production and who will therefore benefit from insurance which will trigger as soon as 20 per cent of its losses. Do you not think, Mr President Chassaigne, that the farmer who has made this choice, by accepting the offer offered by an insurer, will be very pleased that the same insurer will also pay him, on behalf of the State, compensation for losses exceeding 30%, the threshold at which the State will intervene? Obviously, he will be! Which can be the least possible and, in this case, we propose that it be possible to pass through a network of authorized interlocutors. If the breeder does not wish to do so, it is DDT which, by default, will intervene – it can be written in the Official Journal! But in many cases farmers themselves will want to go through other interlocutors. It's obvious! I have already replied concerning the reduction of 50% of the insurance premium for uninsured operators. As for the inclusion of the Olympic average as the basis for calculating compensation for crop losses, this is – to put it simply – the benchmark established to define the level of subsidy that the State can allocate: such subsidies can only be paid under public aid schemes if the benchmark used is that of the Olympic average. This also refers to ongoing discussions about the WTO Green Box – World Trade Organization. I will avoid being too technical, but for me it is a major concern that we must express in European and international fora in order to change things. Finally – as you know very well, honourable Member – the major problem that arises when assessing the damage caused by drought on the prairies is the method of calculation, which is delusional: it is based on the growth of the grass, at the beginning of the season, when it is not necessarily related to the amount of hay available at the end – between the two, it has been possible to do a lot of things! It is this system that we want to improve, since it does not work, so that compensation is finally as close as possible to the reality experienced by the farmer. But we do not want to create a gas plant, because the payment must be fast. That is the twofold challenge we are seeking to address.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u325	Mr. Pierre Venteau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u326	I just wanted to point out to Mr Chassaigne a problem of coherence. You proposed, in Article 2, a sub-amendment to create a list of authorised insurers; and here, when it is proposed to create a list of approved interlocutors, which could probably be accompanied by some rules of ethics, would you like to delete it? Personally, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u327	We'll explain it to you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u328	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u329	I am very sensitive to everything that can lead to a weakening of officials and the skills of those who, particularly within the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, can work on these issues. I regret that calls for tenders are being organised to entrust their tasks to private companies, and that reminds me that in 2017 some of you, very attached to liberalism, went so far as to propose the introduction of calls for tenders that would have allowed the use of private firms – instead of administrative officials of the National Assembly – to accompany the deputies in their work in the information missions. Such an ultraliberal approach is comparable to what you are defending today: you are also referring to calls for tenders and, although the minister mentioned the possible intervention of DDT officials, I do not see how this gas plant could deploy. We know very well that in the end, all the missions concerned will be entrusted to the private sector, because that is your objective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u330	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u331	It will indeed be much easier to intervene for private insurers! We'll talk about it again, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u332	Yeah, we'll talk about it again!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u333	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 187.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u334	It is an amendment of precision, which will reassure President Chassaigne: it aims to clarify that the compensation paid on the basis of national solidarity is realized "by or on behalf of the State" – "on his behalf", President Chassaigne – by a network of authorized interlocutors. I also wanted to say to President Chassaigne that such a mechanism exists in many other sectors! This is particularly the case with respect to the relationship between primary health insurance funds and insurers, mutualists or others, which may give rise to delegations, either in one direction or in the other. As far as EDF is concerned, for example, the primary funds delegate management to the CCAS – communal centres for social action – I believe, and you see no danger! Such a functioning already exists and poses no problem; I've never seen anyone report him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u335	I have before me a number of amendments, Nos 65, 2, 135, 153, 206, 24, 78, 95, 182, 233, 245, 197, 224, 236 and 248, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 2, 135, 153 and 206 are identical, as are Amendments Nos 24, 78, 95, 182 and 233, and 224, 236 and 248. I call Mr Fabien Di Filippo to support Amendment No. 65.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u336	You know that in the area of compensation, the pitfall for our farmers is often not the insurance system but the assessment of damage. The amendments that we are about to consider are intended to allow, when an evaluation raises a question, that recourse be made for it to be reviewed, on the basis of national indices but also of what actually happened on the plot, on the ground. Indeed, it is often realized that some evaluations are quite unacceptable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u337	Mr Julien Dive has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u338	It is intended to allow the challenge, by allowing farmers to request a counter-assessment of the losses suffered by them, through the use of an in situ investigation. The assessment of pre-compensation losses must be based on a partnership approach between the State, local authorities, insurance and farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u339	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 135.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u340	Unlike President Chassaigne, I am not requesting the deletion of paragraph 5; On the contrary, and in the same spirit as the previous speakers, I propose to supplement it with the following sentence: "In the event of a challenge to the valuation of the losses on its farm by a farmer, a supplementary on-the-spot investigation shall be carried out under conditions laid down by decree in order to make an estimate of the damage. » Indeed, the assessment of pre-compensation losses must be based on a partnership approach between the state, communities, insurance and the profession – I insist on the profession – in order to stick as close to the ground as possible. It is this complementary approach that it is necessary to adopt, by opening up to farmers, who are best placed to judge actual losses on their farms, the possibility of contesting an assessment and resorting to a field investigation. It seems to me that the adoption of this amendment – or of one of those which, in the same spirit, are proposed here – is essential to ensure good cohesion between the various actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u341	Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier has the floor to support Amendment No. 153.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u342	Like my colleagues, I believe that this amendment is very important. It aims to provide farmers, who are best placed to judge actual losses on their farms, with the opportunity to challenge an assessment and to resort to a field investigation. Indeed, Minister, in order to be effective, accurate, fair and useful to farmers, the assessment of pre-indemnification losses must be based – as has been said but must be repeated – on a partnership approach between the state, communities, insurance and the profession, which is closest to the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u343	Mr Vincent Descoeur has the floor to support Amendment No. 206.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u344	It aims to open up the possibility of using a field investigation in the event of a challenge to the valuation of losses; It is therefore a common-sense amendment and I do not see what might stand in the way of its adoption. Indeed, it is the guarantee of a fair assessment, and I would add that the use of a field survey is all the more relevant when it comes to assessing grassland losses.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u345	Mr Jean-Yves Bony has the floor to support Amendment No. 24.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u346	It is almost the same as my colleagues have just defended. The aim is to trust the farmer by allowing him the opportunity to challenge the assessment that has just been made and to propose another, complementary, evaluation carried out on the ground. This seems to me to be essential and essential; Indeed, the operator himself is well placed to assess the damage caused on his farm and to judge the losses suffered. But what is really wanted here is a partnership approach between the state, communities, insurance and, of course, the farmer himself.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u347	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u348	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 78.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u349	Many of us, Minister, are defending this important measure. The valuation of losses on the farm is the basis of compensation; It is therefore essential that it be precise and as fair as possible. The amendments are therefore intended to give farmers the opportunity to challenge the assessment, if it does not correspond to what they have estimated, and to make effective use of a field survey.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u350	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 95.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u351	Several arguments have already been put forward to defend this amendment. I would add that, in terms of damage caused by a climate event, there are relatively large differences depending on the basin, slope or massif. Thus, in the Haut-Jura, the impact of a drought period on the grasslands varies greatly depending on the exposure of the land concerned, which requires precise segregation to assess the losses – in the same way, the canton of Nozeroy is affected every two or three years by attacks of mules that devastate the meadows. In all these areas, special attention should be paid to the valuation of losses incurred.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u352	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 182.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u353	As far as I am concerned, this is in a way an amendment of withdrawal: in so far as we cannot have blind confidence in the decision of the approved interlocutors, it is necessary for farmers to be able to have recourse, if the compensation offered to them does not seem to them to correspond to their prejudice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u354	Amendment No 233 by Mr Pierre Morel - A- L'Hussier is being defended. I call Mr Venteau to support Amendment No. 245.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u355	Confidence is an essential element for the system to function, but I am not convinced that the investigation carried out on the ground systematically results in a fair assessment of the damage, which is why I believe it is essential that the compensation procedure preserve the individual appeal possibilities of the farmers concerned, in the event of disagreement on the valuation of the losses. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u356	Mr Antoine Herth, in support of Amendment No. 197, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u357	With your permission, Mr President, I shall at the same time defend my amendments Nos 197 and 236, both relating to paragraph 6 of Article 3. The first is to clarify that the conditions under which an operator may request further expertise in the event of disagreement on the valuation of its loss will also be determined by Order in Council. This is, in fact, a new version of Amendment No 236, drafted with my colleagues Jean-Baptiste Moreau and Nicolas Turquois, which I did not think was sufficiently affirmative. It is not enough to say that the decree "can" lay down the conditions under which the valuation of losses may be the subject of a request for reassessment: Parliament must entrust a clear mission to the Government by specifying precisely the purpose of the decree – in this case, define the conditions for valuation, as provided for in the two amendments. I want to say to our colleagues in the LR Group, who have tabled many amendments on this point, for example, that committees of inquiry will go to the field, that the assessment of damage can also involve modern technologies such as satellite imagery, drones and artificial intelligence. It is therefore appropriate to refer to a decree the conditions under which an operator may request new expertise: in fact, the current assessment conditions may be completely exceeded in two or three years' time. Finally, Amendment No 236 refers to a request for re-evaluation by 'operators' in the plural, suggesting that only a group action would be admissible. It seems to me better to refer to the terminology of the European Commission, which defines the beneficiary of the contract and compensation as "the operator", in the singular. For all these reasons, Amendment No 236 will only be an amendment to my mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u358	We therefore come to the three identical amendments referred to by Mr Herth. Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau has the floor to support Amendment No. 224.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u359	As Antoine Herth has explained very well, this amendment, which I am carrying on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, aims to ensure that the Government can specify by decree the conditions under which an operator may request further expertise in the event of disagreement on the valuation of losses.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u360	A recycling amendment!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u361	It's the washing machine!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u362	Identical Amendments Nos 236 by Mr Antoine Herth and 248 by Mr Nicolas Turquois are being defended. What is the Committee's opinion on all the amendments under discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u363	The number of interventions on this point demonstrates the importance of the climate of confidence that must be built. I agree with everything that has been said, and I am in favour of Amendments No 224 and identical.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u364	And why not ours?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u365	The idea, particularly with regard to herders, is to create a climate of confidence that allows operators to challenge an assessment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u366	This new parliamentary practice of recycling opposition amendments is a detestable practice!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u367	I don't see how the practice is detestable, President Chassaigne...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u368	It's systematic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u369	Come on, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to allow the rapporteur to speak.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u370	[[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Mr Chassaigne, I would like to acknowledge that we have probably not always displayed the most intelligent behaviour towards oppositions during this legislature...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u371	It smells like an election!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u372	In my personal capacity, humbly, I would say that I have become accustomed in the House to a fairly cleavage functioning, leading the various groups to confront each other – because of my professional experience, I know that this is a little less so in the Senate – and that we sometimes have a little difficulty in demonstrating collective intelligence. That said, in all sincerity, by issuing an opinion in favour of Amendment No 224, I was concerned to respond to the concerns expressed by all the speakers. I would add that with regard to forage production losses, the Institute of Livestock submitted a study, certified by an independent body in the absence of double blindness, having established that the correlation rate between the Airbus index – where each pixel represents a square of land of 300 metres by 300 – and the field observations is 0.8, which is excellent. However, this index is contested by a very large number of farmers and even professional leaders, and a great deal of listening, pedagogy and conviction remains to be done on this point. Having made this important clarification, I confirm my support for Amendments Nos 224 and 224.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u373	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u374	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u375	Do you have anything to add, Mr. Chassaigne?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u376	No, Mr. President, I think the demonstration is done!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u377	I have before me two amendments, Nos 51 and 256, which can be discussed jointly. Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u378	It is intended to clarify that the compensation arrangements will be determined for each production taking into account the insurance context.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u379	The Minister has the floor to support Amendment No. 256.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u380	This amendment clarifies one point on which I had committed myself in committee, namely that the rates and compensation arrangements take into account the insurance context. It is extremely important, especially for currently considered non-insurable crops – arboriculture or grassland, as Mr de Courson said earlier – and even below the trigger threshold, that account be taken of the assuring environment, since that is what defines the farmer's ability to ensure if he wishes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u381	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u382	Everything was said about the motivation of the Government's amendment No. 256. At the risk of being accused of recycling, I am in favour of this amendment and I call for the withdrawal of Amendment No 51.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u383	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u384	When the Government's amendment refers to "the lack of development of climate risk insurance", you will admit that it is a little muddy... Does this mean that, if there are few farmers insured for a certain type of production, they will be better compensated than those in sectors where they are more insured? In any event, this does not seem to me to be in keeping with the spirit of the law we are discussing, namely, accountability. It would be interesting to know what you mean by "the insufficient development of insurance. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u385	It's a lack of insurance.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u386	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 178.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u387	If I have withdrawn my amendment No 172 to Article 2, I will not do the same because, as verified, not all trade union organisations of farmers are necessarily consulted on the conditions for determining the criteria for the implementation of Article 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u388	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u389	I have not changed my position: since the current system is not contested, let us not unnecessarily complicate it! It is obvious that the application of this law cannot be a success if agricultural professional organizations (OPA) are not called upon to pilot its application. As I have already done in the case of your other amendment, I would ask for it to be withdrawn, and I will, failing that, issue an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u390	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u391	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u392	Would you like to withdraw your amendment, Mr Chassaigne?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u393	Oh, no, I'm holding it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u394	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine to support Amendment No. 59.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u395	On the basis of the fact that the system of compensation for damage suffered by farmers no longer works, that crop insurance has become obsolete for many farmers and that the subscription to crop insurance prevents them from benefiting from the system of agricultural disasters, it appears necessary to review the link between the system of agricultural disasters and that of crop insurance. To this end, Amendment No 59 adds a new article to the insurance code, in order to define the new scope of crop insurance: insurers would now cover losses between 20 and 50 % of crops.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u396	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u397	This amendment poses several technical difficulties. Holding a rate of between 20 and 50 per cent is contrary to the spirit of the law: it cannot be determined in advance that the insurer covers exactly that part. Furthermore, the wording of this amendment suggests that there is an assurance market for losses of funds, which is not the case. For these two reasons, I express an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u398	I have before me six identical amendments, Nos 6, 169, 189, 209, 257 and 258, aimed at the deletion of Article 4. Amendment No 6 by Mr Julien Dive is being defended. Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 169.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u399	We propose to delete section 4, because this bill introduces a new climate risk management regime in agriculture, open to all farmers, whether insured or not, requires a perfect link between crop insurance and the disaster risk compensation fund. However, the proposed wording leaves the agricultural calamities fund open for risks that would not fall within the scope of the new scheme. This combination of mechanisms, alongside the one-stop shop, is a source of complexity for us, which could lead to incomprehension and thus undermine the innovative nature of the reform. In line with the amendment proposing the rewriting of clause 3, we therefore propose the deletion of clause 4 of the bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u400	Mrs Sylvia Pinel has the floor to support Amendment No. 189.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u401	I will withdraw it because I had tabled it in consistency with the amendments to Article 3, which were not adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u402	Amendments Nos 209 by Mr Vincent Descoeur, 257 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin and 258 by Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz are being defended. What is the committee's opinion on these deletion amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u403	In view of the number of amendments to delete the article, I would like to clarify the matter. We are entering into a legal complexity that obliges me to learn myself. I would stress, Mr Aubert, that it is the nature of the losses that makes it possible to distinguish the items: crop losses will be covered by the provisions of Articles 1, 2 and 3; the losses of funds by those of Article 4. It is the coverage of the latter that requires the maintenance of CNGRA and the regime of agricultural disasters as it exists today. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u404	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u405	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u406	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u407	If we have tabled this series of amendments, it is not for the pleasure of deleting an article, but because it was the logical continuation of the amendments to Article 3. For my part, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u408	Can I take it that all the other deletion amendments have been withdrawn? Was Mr. Aubert convinced?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u409	Yes, I was convinced by the rapporteur. Vaincu, never; convinced, sometimes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u410	Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 52.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u411	The second paragraph of this Article restricts the application of the system of agricultural disasters to the concept of property, thus exclusively to losses of funds, i.e. losses in respect of equipment, livestock, installations, buildings and equipment destroyed by climatic hazards. It is tantamount to abolishing compensation under this scheme for crop losses, since they concern risks which are not considered insurable by decree. The aim of this appeal amendment is to warn of the risk that non-insurable crop losses will be compensated under the new exceptional state scheme only from a high trigger threshold. It responds to a problem raised by the Peasant Confederation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u412	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u413	For the reasons I have already outlined, I am against this amendment. Above all, this confusion should not be reintroduced. A clear distinction is made between any crop loss of any kind, including non-insurance, which is covered by Articles 1, 2 and 3, and any loss of funds, which refers to Article 4. If the regime of agricultural disasters persists, it is only for losses of funds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u414	I have before me several identical amendments, Nos 5, 82, 99, 146, 156, 190 and 208. Amendments Nos 5 by Mr Julien Dive and 82 by Mrs Isabelle Valentin are being defended. Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 99.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u415	The drafting of the bill left the agricultural calamities fund unaltered for the risks that would not fall under the new scheme. However, this combination of mechanisms, alongside the single window, is a source of complexity that could lead to incomprehension and mitigate the innovative nature of the reform. Without removing the fund for agricultural disasters, the amendment clarifies the scope of non-insurable risks or for which there is no sufficient technical reference for insurers to play their role as sole interlocutor. We would like clarification on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u416	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 146, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u417	Let's imagine that I am a tree grower – a profession that I could have worked for because it's my father's – and that a freeze of less than twenty degrees makes me lose the entire harvest of my peaches and causes a burst of wood, so a loss of funds, how could I be compensated? Would my case fall under a two-tier system, two different commissions? If we have tabled these amendments, it is in order to clarify the link between the former calamity fund and the new insurance system. Even if we understood that the terms and conditions would be determined by order-in-council or by order, we would need you to give us a concrete vision of the operation of the scheme, as if we were on the edge of a piece of frozen peach.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u418	Amendments Nos 156 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier, 190 by Mrs Sylvia Pinel and 208 by Mr Vincent Descoeur are being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u419	You will allow me, Mr. Brun, to go a little further. Take the case you have submitted to us with an insured tree farmer who has suffered losses. The question is what insurance products it has subscribed to, as less than 3% of the arboreal areas are covered by an MRC contract. I will take another example, because I had a discussion with the President of the National Association of Pears Apples (ANPP). The pear sector will ask insurers, through CODAR, to cover among other risks the freezing for all orchards in France. This will mean that the risks associated with freezing are covered in the same way for all tree growers – a point that we have discussed with Mr Prud'homme, who is no longer there. This risk-sharing requirement will therefore lead insurers to put on the table all the ice-freeness data, for all pear orchards, from Picardia to Bouches-du-Rhône, through the Drôme, even though the frequency and intensity of frost episodes are not the same in these different territories. From the common pricing base thus generated, each insurer will have its own commercial policy. Some will invent an index insurance policy, complicated to apply to the arboriculture but which will be likely to convince thanks to premiums far less than those proposed by the insurers now the compensation logic, which assumes that an expert moves – let's put at a cost of 300 euros – first to see the effects of the cold episode, then to evaluate the harvest and compensate the losses. For the loss of funds, the current regime of agricultural calamities, completely separate from that which covers the loss of harvest, will apply. With regard to arboriculture insurance products, insurers will also be able to offer, in addition to MRC contracts, yield buybacks and hedges of a portion of the capital, as is the case in viticulture, or other formulas adapted to the strategy of each holding. I hope I answered you, Mr. Brun. I repeat, there is a distinction between losses of funds, which refer to the agricultural calamities regime, and losses of harvest, which fall under the insurance regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u420	If there are two separate regimes, then there will be two different files!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u421	What is the Government's opinion on these identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u422	As Mr Dive pointed out, there is a link between your amendments on Article 3 and those tabled on Article 4. What we must have in mind is that the current system of agricultural disasters is based on a completely artificial distinction between insurable and non-insurable risks, a distinction which this reform will remove. I think we all agree that this is one of its strong axes. The Government's amendment to article 3 makes it clear that, where there is no accessible insurance offer, MP Charles de Courson, the losses can be compensated by the State, even if they are below the threshold for triggering compensation on the basis of national solidarity. This amounts de facto to maintaining compensation rules that are consistent with the principle that prevails today for CNGRA. This Government amendment is very important and responds to the concerns expressed by Ms. Dalloz and Mr. Dive. As for Mr Brun, he was right to point out that two regimes would coexist. In fact, it is mainly on operating losses that we are regularly questioned, as the losses of funds are less frequent, fortunately. The coverage of the latter is closer to the natural disaster regime than to the new insurance scheme, which is intended to apply on a recurring basis. If we wanted to distinguish between two schemes, it was because the current insurance system hardly covered losses of funds. It's almost a state of affairs. That is why we considered that the worst solution – I say very humbly – was to maintain the regime that applies today. But I repeat, the main concern is the operating losses, because they are the most recurrent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u423	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u424	I would like to take this opportunity to ask a question which may have already been answered – unfortunately I could not be present in the Chamber at the beginning of the sitting. Mr Brun spoke of the need for some farmers to have to file two dossiers, but the returns we have shown us that farmers, especially those with small, multi-crop farms, are afraid of having to carry out several procedures at the same time. Will these small farmers benefit from simplification? Will they all fall under the first tier for their compensation? Should they also depend on the second part for the losses of funds if some of their crops were not insurable? How will the articulation between regimes be made?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u425	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u426	In general, there are two ways of compensation, either by the farm or by the crops, even if things can be complicated if the farmer has entered into several climate risk insurance contracts with different types of insurer – he is free of his choice. Under the current system, compensation is by crop, with a trigger threshold that takes into account the overall impact on the farm. I believe that these arrangements need to be changed by focusing on crops rather than on exploitation. All this will depend on the balance to be determined in the discussions on the various loss thresholds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u427	Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u428	I would like to thank the minister for this bill, as well as the rapporteur and all the colleagues who worked on it. This reform has long been planned without anyone going to it. We will adopt it today and we can welcome it. The wine growers, who were waiting for this text, are already satisfied at this stage, I know. Article 5 provides for the establishment of the Committee for the Guidance and Development of Crop Insurance, CODAR. It will involve professional agricultural representatives, as recommended by the Varenne de l'eau, as well as insurance and reinsurance companies. It will be responsible for making collective decisions based on clear objectives and issues, taking into account the need for market development. It is intended to determine a technical balance, by deciding what is insurable and what is not, and to define the actuarial rules for the intervention threshold and the deductible rates. I would point out that we have tabled an amendment to ensure that all production lines can be represented on this committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u429	Mr Jean-Marie Sermier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u430	That will be my only address, Mr. President. Agriculture and especially viticulture are the victims of global warming. In the Jura vineyard, for example, the rise of temperatures from February onwards leads to a more marked deployment of vegetation, and the frosts of April cause worrying damage. In this way, in the department, we experienced three years of freezing in five years, in 2017, 2019 and 2021. Technical solutions must be found. I am thinking in particular of the antifreeze towers, which can reduce the harmful effects. In this regard, Minister, I should like to thank you for allowing the stimulus plan to apply to the financing of such equipment. However, this is not enough. It is important to look for other means, including appropriate insurance contracts. You have committed yourself to this and I support your approach. [[Applause on several benches in the LR group]] Simply put, for all this to work, the channels must be represented as a whole within CODAR, which will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the scheme. It is well known that the current structure does not encompass all sectors. It is now necessary for each farmer to be able to consider himself represented on the new committee, in order to be sure that the insurance arrangements are adapted to his type of holding and his production chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u431	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 179.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u432	This Article 5 establishes within the CNGRA a specific committee responsible for the orientation and development of crop insurance, the composition and operating procedures of which will then be determined by decree. We are therefore asked to consider, by a kind of act of faith, that everything will be done for the best, when we know that this new structure is intended only to strengthen the weight of private insurers in the conduct and management of public policies in the field of risk management in agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u433	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u434	It is unfavorable, which will not surprise Mr Chassaigne. On the one hand, insurers will be prohibited from playing on the selection of risks, i.e. to decree that they no longer cover a particular risk, to the detriment of farmers; They will be forced to stand together, as in the example of pear orchards I have quoted. On the other hand, if the technical balance becomes difficult to achieve, such risk for such production, in such a basin, will cease to be insurable, and the sector will have to adapt its own strategy, or even create a water resource – I refer you to the second and third sequences of the Varenne agricultural water and adaptation to climate change. On the other hand, farmers will be able to say to the insurers: "We need a product to insure such a culture that is not, such an experiment for which there is no evidence of sinistrality. Moreover, what has not yet been mentioned, the Central Reinsurance Fund (CCR) will play a pivotal role, as a reinsurance professional and as a third party of confidence with farmers, in terms of the authenticity, if I may say, of pricing based on the data of disorientation! Therefore, I repeat, I am against this amendment. We are not here to govern the details of the execution, of what the professionals will do, but to define intentions, that is to say, to determine the expected results, and then to ensure that these results have been achieved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u435	Mr Antoine Herth, in support of Amendment No. 203, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u436	This amendment is intended to clarify the text. It provides that, as its name indicates, CODAR will be competent for the guidance and development of crop insurance. For example, the first paragraph of Article L. 361-8 of the Rural and Maritime Code provides that "a National Committee for the Management of Risks in Agriculture shall be established with competence for the management of hazards in the climate, sanitary, phytosanitary and environmental fields". Similarly, provisions should be laid down by decree not concerning the competence of the CODAR but its functioning, the establishment of thematic or sectoral committees, thus making the system more flexible and its evolution simpler.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u437	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u438	Request for withdrawal; Failing that, adverse notice. Mr Herth, I prefer your amendment No 222, to which I shall be in favour.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u439	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u440	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u441	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u442	Minister, I can see that I made myself misunderstood earlier; But we must vote knowingly. Suppose you own a farm including a vineyard and almond trees. Let's admit that you're recording 40% of your farm losses on the vine; At the same time, almond trees have died, which is a loss of funds. Since the thresholds for compensation are set per holding, does the fact that the loss of funds falls under another scheme removes it from the calculation? Is there a risk that you are considered to have suffered only 40% of losses, so that you will only be eligible for some aid, whereas the damage is actually much greater? In other words, the question is the relationship between the farm threshold and the two schemes. I hope I've made it clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u443	You were, Mr. Aubert!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u444	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 186.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u445	You are aware that the National Committee for the Management of Risks in Agriculture has competence in the management of climatic hazards, but also in the management of sanitary, phytosanitary and environmental risks. Its tasks therefore go beyond the issues related to the development of crop insurance. That is why this amendment seeks to establish a special committee for crop insurance guidance and development within CNGRA to deal specifically with these issues.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u446	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u447	Mr. de Courson is absolutely right. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u448	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u449	Same opinion. In addition, to reassure Mr Aubert, the trigger thresholds for both devices are already different: the text will therefore have no effect on this point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u450	I call Mr Potier to support Amendment No. 53.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u451	It is, in a way, an amendment of withdrawal, dealing with a substantive debate that we have already had: it aims to ensure that CODAR promotes an ethical and responsible offer. Mr Minister, Mr rapporteur, we have come here in good terms, with the will to support this text, while showing that there are other solutions, which we regret being excluded. We have therefore tabled some specific amendments. Our attitude does not deserve the lightnings that fell on us earlier, and our request that CODAR take into account the quality of the assurances, their ethics, is nothing exorbitant: I hope that it will be welcomed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u452	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u453	I very much regret that my words have seemed to you as many lightnings: far from me the idea of pounding anyone. What is more, I fully agree with what is behind this amendment. On the other hand, its terms are not normative, so I don't see what it does to the content of the bill. We have already had this discussion: if it is a question of drawing up a list and excluding certain insurers, I repeat, I am against it; If supply is to accompany the resilience of agriculture, this is clearly expressed much more strongly by the universality, sharing of data and risks, which will be discussed in Article 7. We will also address the issues of compulsory membership and the right to competition. Honestly, since we agree on the substance, I would not understand that you are fighting, that you are making your vote depend on a clarification which, I repeat, is not normative. I therefore call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Failing that, adverse notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u454	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u455	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u456	Mr Jean-Louis Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u457	I would like to ask the Minister for a further reply. In addition to the liability and ethical issues raised by Mr Potier, the agricultural insurance market is shared almost entirely between two companies, as has already been said; Hence the risk that public money will be captured by the insurance system, instead of helping our producers. Is it possible that precautions are taken, that insurers are required to provide some figures, such as the amount of contributions received and the amount of compensation paid? We would thus know how both the supply and the market are evolving.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u458	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u459	Mr Bricout, this is the whole purpose of Article 7: actuarial control and regulation. As for the amendment, it does not require CODAR to judge the ethical nature of insurance, but "to assess the impact of public aid and to determine whether such aid contributes to a responsible and ethical supply of insurance". Such a task cannot be entrusted to a committee, only to Parliament, to inspection missions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly nineteen hours and thirty-nine and we still have fifty amendments to consider: I therefore propose that we push a little more than twenty hours to complete the examination of this text. However, if, at 20.00 p.m., I find that we have not made sufficient progress, I shall adjourn the meeting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u461	Fifty amendments are a lot!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u462	I trust that the speeches will be of exemplary brevity, Mr Di Filippo. I have before me six amendments, Nos 87, 222, 225, 237, 247 and 180, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 222, 225, 237 and 247 are identical. They are also the subject of five sub-amendments, Nos. 269, 274, 277, 278 and 271, the first four of which are identical. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 87.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u463	Article 5 aims to create within the CNGRA a specific committee – or commission – the CODAR, whose composition is referred to a decree. However, it would be necessary for the law to establish its principles. The aim of this amendment is therefore to clarify, for the sake of balance, that it is composed of "representatives of insurers and reinsurers, representatives of agricultural professions and representatives of the State". I said "equally": this can be negotiated. However, the exercise of regulatory power should be monitored.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u464	That's right! Once again, you're on the same line as the left!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u465	The identical amendments No 222 by Mr Antoine Herth and No 225 by Mr Jean-Baptiste Moreau were defended. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 237.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u466	I propose that you adopt these identical amendments instead of all the other amendments with the same purpose. As Mr. de Courson has just said, "the representation of representative trade union organizations, insurance companies and the State" should be guaranteed: this wording expresses the intention of the legislator more precisely and therefore makes it easier for the Government to apply. The same amendments also provide that the decree "also specifies, where appropriate, the local variations of the said commission", or committee. A national mastodon, with many feathered chiefs, would indeed be absolutely intergovernmental: each production basin, each watershed, must have its antenna to follow as closely as possible the question of what is or is not insurable and the adaptation of the channels.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u467	Amendment No 247 by Mr Nicolas Turquois is being defended. We come to the sub-amendments to these four identical amendments. Subamendments 269 by Mr David Habib and 274 by Mrs Lise Magnier are being defended. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support sub-amendment 277.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u468	Should Antoine Herth's amendment and the three identical amendments be adopted, it should be made clear that the functions indicated are carried out on a voluntary basis and that the various agricultural sectors are represented.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u469	Mrs Emilie Bonnivard has the floor in support of sub-amendment 278.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u470	It is due to Mr Dive, who has taken up several of our amendments which are considered inadmissible. The composition of CNGRA does not sufficiently reflect the diversity of agricultural sectors; The Commission's task is to avoid this pitfall, especially with regard to the most secure sectors. It is therefore essential that any agricultural sector which so requests be represented.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u471	I call Mrs Mirallès to support sub-amendment No. 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u472	The other co-signatories of this sub-amendment and I would like to make sure that all agricultural sectors, by sector of production, will be represented once they have requested it. If the commission is subject to local variations, this representativeness must also be guaranteed. We therefore propose to insert in the first sentence of article 5, paragraph 2, after the word "State", the words "and the agricultural profession, for each sector which so requests, without being able to receive another form of remuneration, even symbolic, distinct from their usual salary or salary".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u473	I call Mr André Chassaigne to support Amendment No. 180.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u474	I'll take it off.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u475	What is the committee's opinion on these amendments under joint discussion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u476	Once again, I propose that you adopt the amendments identical to point 237, which I myself supported. With regard to the representation of the sectors, I fully understand the concern of the professional leaders, who believe that they alone can express themselves in the name of their sector: the infinite diversity of agriculture is moreover a French wonder; If only in the Bouches-du-Rhône, we find everything, from polyculture to vines and olive trees! This reform would make no sense if it did not take into account the basin-based sectors and, in short, the data of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). The CODAR will project on the production basins, on the watersheds,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u477	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u478	...what we know about the consequences of global warming for local sectors. For their part, they will transmit to CODAR, either by their own representatives or by other representatives who will speak on their behalf, as decided by the Government, their requests to insurers to accompany their adaptation. That is the spirit of the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u479	My amendment provides that the text does not go into this level of detail but provides that, in accordance with the spirit of the law, the professional officials concerned are the first to make requests to insurers and, above all, to take into account the risks that may become non-insurable in each basin. I therefore express an opinion against the amendments and sub-amendments to the joint debate, with the exception of mine and the identical ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u480	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u481	I am in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, which is against the others, and I am calling for the sub-amendments to be withdrawn. Clearly, reforms do not take place without the channels. The problem is that there are at least forty-two! For me, the only obstacle is operational: a CODAR in which representatives of forty-two channels, five OPAs, insurers and the state would discuss threshold levels, it would not work! To say that CODAR must consult the channels and function in good intelligence with them is obvious. The role of the executive represented in CODAR, or agricultural representatives, is to ensure this. Those who know me know that I work systematically with the channels. But a CODAR cannot work with 60 people – unless you specify that not all channels are represented, in which case I wish you good courage to choose which ones are represented! What the rapporteur says is that it is possible that only representatives from certain sectors will participate in CODAR. On the other hand, it cannot be imposed that each sector should be represented. Indeed, I know at least forty-two, and there is probably more. Moreover, the reform is not being served by making a CODAR decision critical on the grounds that a sector – even a small one – would not have been invited. My concern is therefore purely operational: I am in favour of consulting the sectors, but it does not seem to me that they are all present in CODAR. I therefore call for the sub-amendments to be withdrawn, while at the same time supporting the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u482	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u483	I am prepared to withdraw my amendment and my sub-amendment in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, as it allows for a local decline in CODAR. It is true that, since some sectors are very localised, it is not necessary to make everything go back to Paris in what would soon look like a Parliament! Indeed, you refer to forty-two channels, Mr.Minister, but there is much more in reality. In winemaking alone, for example, champagne cannot be assimilated to beaujolais and beaujolais to bordeaux, as the problems are different.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u484	Mrs. Patricia Mirallès has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u485	In view of the commitment of the Minister, I am withdrawing Subamendment No 271.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u486	On Article 5, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche group. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. If you agree, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that we do not wait for the five minutes before voting. I put Rule 5 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u487	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 71 Number of votes cast 68 Absolute majority 35 For adoption 66 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u488	I have before me two identical amendments, No 204, corrected, and 238, amending the additional article after Article 5. Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas has the floor to support Amendment No. 204, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u489	It aims to enable agricultural cooperatives to draw up an accounting provision which they can release in the event of an agricultural hazard which is precisely identified in their rules of procedure. None of the current provisions allows cooperatives to set up and dispose of aid funds in the event of difficulties arising from the occurrence of a hazard, as there is no accounting mechanism to do so. The creation of reserve funds for cooperatives had therefore been requested and subsequently accepted by the Accounting Standards Authority (ASC). However, the incorporation of this fund into the accounting plan was subsequently rejected, on the ground that the principles of solidarity and mutualisation alone cannot constitute a sufficient legal basis. The matter has therefore been referred back to the legislator, which is why we are tabling this amendment today. The purpose of the scheme is to allow cooperatives to set up a contingency fund by including in the Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code (CRPM), in order to take account of the opinion of the ANC, that those wishing to set up such a provision must provide, in their rules of procedure, the conditions for setting up and resuming the provision when the risk is realised, as well as the conditions for assistance to co-operators. We are encircling this system of guarantees: I hope that our amendment will receive favourable opinions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u490	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 238.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u491	I am so in favour of this amendment that I have indeed tabled an identical one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u492	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u493	Without recovery, I am very much in favour of these amendments. Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u494	On Article 7, I am seized by the groups La République en marche and Les Républicaines of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Fabrice Brun has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u495	Article 7 is very important because it deals with the obligations imposed on insurers to ensure that the future system benefits all farmers. We, the Republicans, believe that the text is too cowardly and that we would benefit from making our expectations of insurance clearer. They still have too much room for manoeuvre at this stage. I propose two principles on which we could agree. The first is that of mutualisation: all risks must be pooled, because the greater the pooling, the wider the contribution base and the stronger the system, with appropriate premium calculations. As many farmers as possible will benefit from the future insurance system. Secondly, it seems important to us to engrave in the marble of the law that membership in the group of insurers is compulsory. All must join it, play the game and be transparent. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we risk aggravating the current situation, in which insurers select the best risks and gradually withdraw from the market in certain sectors or sectors. That is why we wish to make membership compulsory. To say it is good – indeed it seems to me that you said it, minister – but to write it in the law is better. If this provision were not incorporated, I would have a very specific question: within which time will the order on this obligation of membership be issued, minister? This question is decisive because it conditions the operational nature of the new system on 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u496	I have before me an amendment, No 181, to delete Article 7. Mr André Chassaigne has the floor to support it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u497	Article 7 refers to orders on matters as important as the obligations imposed on insurance undertakings, the tasks entrusted to the Central Reinsurance Fund, the arrangements for supervision and penalties applicable and the reporting obligations imposed on uninsured farmers. Unless amendments to Article 7 are made by way of amendments, our group is calling for its deletion in its current wording.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u498	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u499	This article, President Chassaigne, is one of the pillars of the whole reform. It is the one through which the goal of universality of the new regime can be achieved. I come back to the discussions we had earlier: while there is no obligation today on insurers and it has long been considered, at the top of the state, that, when crop-based multi-risk insurance grew sufficiently, it was no longer necessary to have access to the agricultural calamities regime – hence the famous, inoperative distinction between the channels deemed insurable and those not to be insurable – Article 7 of the bill reintroduces strict complementarity between the state and the insurers. This shows how important it was to get along! You can blame us for a lot of things, but not...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u500	That's not what we blame you for, it's prescriptions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u501	Article 7 allows, thanks to the group of insurers we are going to talk about in a few moments, to guarantee the universality of the scheme – that is, as Mr Brun has explained very well at the moment, to avert the phenomenon of risk selection, when it takes place at the expense of farmers. I am therefore against your amendment, Mr Chassaigne.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u502	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u503	It is unfavourable for exactly the same reasons as those mentioned by Frédéric Descrozaille; I totally agree with him. I would add, in response to MP Brun, that our objective is that the order be made within six months. We had originally scheduled nine months, but the Committee on Economic Affairs has reduced this deadline.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u504	Will that be enough?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u505	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 90.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u506	This is the first of the amendments tabled by the Libertés et Territoires Group to seek to regulate the orders provided for in Article 7. We do not like ordinances too much; We believe that Parliament must do its job. At the very least, they must be supervised. Amendment No 90 proposes that, beyond the scope of Article 38 of the Constitution, it be recalled that Article 7 must be implemented "with respect for the plurality of insurance". It is a matter of making it clear that we are not creating a monopoly or an oligopoly – we will come back to that earlier, on the occasion of other amendments. Competition rules must be respected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u507	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u508	I will make a detailed answer on this point which has been discussed in general discussion. It is very important to recall that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), also known as the Treaty of Rome, provides in Articles 39 to 42 that the objectives of the CAP prevail over the application of competition law to the agricultural sector. This principle of law is a subtlety difficult to interpret, and the French authorities have been struggling to do so for years. When it comes to judging the application of competition law to the agricultural sector, the Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) or the Autorité de la concurrence often tend to argue with their difficulties in interpreting the prevalence of the CAP's objectives and, in doubt, proscribe anything similar to a derogation from competition law. The Court of Justice of the European Union has clarified decisively in the so-called endive cartel case, highlighting two key concepts for the interpretation of this principle of subtle law: useful effect and proportionality. The legislator we are can perfectly interpret this Community law by making no infringement of competition law in its principle and of the constitutional freedom to undertake. On the contrary, the aim is to develop the insurance market, to favour innovation, the plurality of insurers, commercial policies and business models, so that different offers are offered and the freedom of the operator, who pursues his own business strategy, is guaranteed. But there is a constraint on insurers: it is important that they do not go too fast, that they do not short-circuit the movement of adjustment of the sectors and that they do not leave on the tile farmers in areas where the appearance of bad risks would damage the rate of loss compared to the premiums, that is, the technical balance of the insurance product. I am therefore rather in favour of your amendment No 104, which has to be considered at a later stage, because it refers to this balance between the constitutional freedom to undertake, which is fundamental to the development of the coverage of the average risks, which is our objective, and respect for the objectives of the CAP. However, these are the second pillar allocations. We must guarantee the universality of the regime and the development of the boundary between insurable and non-insurable, which allows our agriculture to adapt. No farmer should be the victim of too rapid a reactivity of insurers. I therefore ask you to withdraw this amendment in favour of your corrected amendment No 104.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u509	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 142, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u510	[[Smile]] I propose that you engrave in the marble of the law an objective that is likely to be unanimous because it is simple, clear and effective. He is entitled to the goal, in accordance with the motto of my favorite club, by posing that the system of harvest insurance benefits all farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u511	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u512	On the objective, we agree, but since we have not adopted a compulsory insurance system, I am against your amendment. Compulsory insurance is complicated to implement, for many reasons, including technical ones. We have chosen an incentive system. Pedagogy is needed to build confidence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u513	As with the vaccines?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u514	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u515	Unfavorable. Without wanting to play on words, farm access and farmers' access to insurance, it is not exactly the same thing. This enabling article provides very clearly the obligation for insurance companies to offer an insurance contract to potential insured persons. This is clearly one of the objectives of empowerment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u516	[[Smile]] Mr Brun, I will refrain from establishing any football prognosis on the basis of the lack of success of your amendment... The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 240.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u517	The clarification provided by this amendment aims to protect farmers from the danger of risk selection, or opposing selection, which is the profession of insurers. The pooling of the risks referred to in the article is in fact the pooling of the data of the break-up and the price of the reinsurance. The aim is to pool the intensity and frequency of the risk, so as to obtain a common pricing base, apart of of course from the expertise and management costs, which may vary. It is in this way that the constitutional freedom to undertake and the universality of the regime will be reconciled.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u518	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u519	I'll have a wisdom opinion. I am very much in favour of the substance, but it may be necessary to improve the drafting of the amendment in the context of the shuttle. So it's a "favourable wisdom," as they say.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u520	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u521	Do we know exactly, Mr. Rapporteur, Mr.Minister, what is "opposite selection"? Is there any text that defines it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u522	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 122.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u523	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have the right to secure ourselves abroad, in application of the principle of free trade which prevails within the European Union. For example, I have the opportunity to make sure that I have a Belgian company.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u524	Bad idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u525	Maybe, but it's my freedom. This amendment arose from a question about the compatibility of this insurance pool with European competition law and free trade rules.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u526	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u527	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u528	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u529	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u530	I call Mr Bruno Duvergé to support Amendment No. 191.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u531	This amendment is intended to replace the words "may consist" in paragraph 2 with the word "consisting" in order to secure the device.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u532	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u533	This amendment more strictly regulates the authorization of the Government. I am in favour of this, since it makes it possible to clarify the obligations that will be imposed on insurers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u534	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u535	I would ask you to withdraw this amendment in the light of the discussions we need to have in the context of the implementation of this order. We are, of course, determined that this order should be as ambitious as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u536	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u537	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 104, as corrected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u538	This amendment, which was the result of lengthy discussions in committee and with the rapporteur, seeks to ensure the link between EU law, competition law, on the one hand, and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which governs the use of personal data. The creation of this grouping should not lead to the establishment of an oligopoly. Indeed, the exchange of data, for example between the three main operators, which account for 80% of the market, could lead to the elimination of competition.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u539	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u540	Favourable for the reasons I have already outlined.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u541	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u542	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u543	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 121.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u544	Article 7 of the draft law empowers the Government to take measures by order to ensure that farmers have wide access to a climate risk insurance scheme, including the creation of an insurance pool. However, the contours of this insurance pool and its operating procedures are not yet determined. The authors of this amendment consider that the power to legislate by order is, as it stands, too broad and that the Government should clarify its intentions with regard to the way in which the insurance pool is organized. They therefore propose to clarify that the pool, of which insurance companies marketing RCM insurance would be members, would have the legal form of an economic interest grouping (EIG). The aim is to encourage the Government to clarify its position on the matter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u545	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u546	Although the report that I submitted to the Minister advocates the status of GIE, I am against this clarification being included in the legislation. Not fully aware of the law of business, I do not know whether this grouping could take on other more appropriate legal forms. That is why I would prefer not to clarify this point, which seems to me to be relatively secondary in terms of the obligation to join and the obligations that will be imposed on its members.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u547	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u548	My position is the same. The only examples we know are in the form of GIE, but there may be other possibilities, as the rapporteur has just said.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u549	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u550	On a matter that is still important, we are a little in the fog. I believe that you, the rapporteur, referred earlier to the compulsory nature of the grouping; In the text before us, however, it is not mandatory: it was not the Government's position. What happens if the insurers fail to agree? It seems to me a bit dangerous, on such sensitive issues, to let the Government manage without setting a framework for it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u551	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 239.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u552	As a follow-up to the discussion we have just had, I propose that the obligation to join the group be included in the law, in order to counter the ambitions to pool the data before deciding to join the group. In order for the reform to be truly committed, there must be a climate of trust that has been mentioned by a great many Members. In order to ensure the universality of the new scheme, insurers who wish to market a product which is still 70% subsidized by Community money must be obliged to join the grouping.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u553	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u554	Wisdom.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u555	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u556	I agree with the Government's wise position, because our rapporteur's amendment goes very far. Is there a right to give the Government the right to make membership of a group of which the nature of the group is not known compulsory?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u557	But we're in for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u558	Maybe, but we're here to discuss the substance, and that's why I'm asking you this question. Is it even constitutional? Are you able to answer that question, my dear colleague?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u559	I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 123.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u560	The text as drafted poses a very delicate problem of retroactivity. We have talked a lot about this in committee and it was agreed that the rapporteur would work with you, Minister, to find a solution. It cannot be said that existing contracts can be brutally repealed. Hence my proposal that this provision applies in accordance with the principle of non-retroactivity. Private law contracts cannot be terminated, even on grounds of general interest, which I believe does not apply in this case, whatever some may have said.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u561	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u562	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn. Your concerns are legitimate, but I would like to make an amendment to Rule 12 that seems to me to respond to it, as it takes into account the wishes expressed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u563	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u564	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u565	I have before me four amendments, Nos 84, 101, 145 and 157, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 84, 101 and 145 are identical. Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor to support Amendment No. 84.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u566	In response to the challenges of climate change and the high expectations of farmers, the Act is expected to come into force on January 1, 2023. This will to move quickly is an absolute necessity, but it implies a large-scale technical implementation from the beginning of the year 2022. For this reason, it is proposed that, like CODAR, the centre of insurance companies wishing to market climate risk insurance products should be established before the full mechanism, scheduled for 1 January 2023, enters into force.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u567	Mrs Marie-Christine Dalloz has the floor to support Amendment No. 101.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u568	I would add that my colleague Isabelle Valentin said very well that a very rapid creation of this pool bringing together all the insurers would have the advantage of allowing the future flow to be organised, but also the stock mentioned in Mr de Courson's previous amendment, which is a real necessity. If the scheme is to enter into force on 1 January 2023, 2022 must be devoted to this substantive work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u569	Mr Fabrice Brun, in support of Amendment No. 145, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u570	I would simply like to mark the deadline of 1 January 2023, which is decisive in view of the recurrence of climatic hazards. As we mentioned in June, minister, you may present us with an information report between June 12 and 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u571	Amendment No 157 by Mr Jean-Pierre Vigier is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u572	You are a thousand times right about the importance of the entry into force of the law on 1 January 2023 and the need for the grouping of insurance companies to get to work without delay. If it were up to me, the deadline would be reduced to a month.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u573	Same!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u574	The six-month period seems reasonable to me for a number of reasons. This text deals with complicated and sensitive issues. We have just adopted amendments that have received wisdom from the Government. If we want to do things seriously and correctly, and not end up in the middle of an election period, this time seems reasonable, I repeat. As for the insurers who would be in bad faith enough to wait for the publication of the order in order to get around the table and reflect on what they will do on January 1, 2023, I want to say: so bad for them! Those who have followed the debates, who know our determination and know that the reform will take place will not wait. There will be an obligation to join. We will see, as part of the parliamentary shuttle, how the text will come back from the Senate. I hear your warning, but we are justified in interpreting Community law and its compatibility with national law. I therefore insist on the date of January 1, 2023 and repeat that we will not wait until the law is published to ask the insurers to put themselves around the table. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u575	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u576	In order for this to be included in the Official Journal, I shall put the strongest pressure in the tube so that the orders provided for in this Article are taken as soon as possible. We need to give visibility. I have always held good on the date of 1 January 2023, because this reform must be carried out, but also because this date corresponds to the one foreseen for the entry into force of the CAP reform. The reason why the text provides that the order will be made within six months and not three months is that we must also consult the National Commission on Informatics and Freedoms (CNIL) or the Autorité de la concurrence: if their timetable, of which I am not in charge, did not allow this order to be made within three months, I would be obliged to return to Parliament. It is therefore preferable to keep the six-month deadline, with a very firm commitment on my part to put pressure, as the rapporteur said.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u577	I put Rule 7 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u578	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 89 Number of votes cast 65 Absolute majority 33 For adoption 64 Against 1
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u579	Mr Philippe Naillet's amendment No 105 is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u580	Clearly, the consultation called for in this amendment will take place. An amendment further clarified that a local variation in the functioning of CODAR would apply. Request for withdrawal or, failing that, adverse notice
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u581	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 241.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u582	The purpose of this amendment is to align the regime applicable to goods used for both professional and personal purposes – so-called mixed goods – with that applicable to goods used exclusively for professional use. The aim is not to penalize professionals, especially farmers, who also use goods for personal purposes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u583	Mr Julien Dive has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u584	I take this opportunity to take advantage of the fact that we are coming to the end of our consideration of the bill to revive you, minister, on an important subject. This text will be operational in one year, on 1 January 2023, but will not have retroactive effect. So I wanted to draw your attention to a situation that you know, since you came last July 20 in the department of Aisne, which experienced an exceptional flood after the Oise came out of bed: 5000 hectares of pastures and crops were affected. Farmers are not eligible for compensation for agricultural disasters. You told them, however, that they could benefit from exceptional assistance – I know you're working on it. However, to date, apart from the exemption from the property tax on unbuilt properties (TFNB), no aid has been introduced. The subject is important for the territory and the farmers concerned, who suffered a flood even though it was not raining: the facts occurred in the middle of the summer, and this flood was the result of the heavy rains falling in Belgium, dams that fell or were closed, etc. I'd like them to get an answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u585	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u586	In addition to the exemption from the TFNB, we have opened an envelope of more than €8.5 million for social security contributions (CSP). The subject illustrates perfectly the provisions that we are taking today: to schematize and without generalizing, the losses of many farms that suffered the floods that occurred last summer in the Great East and in the Hauts-de-Frances, remained below the threshold of 30% triggering agricultural calamities – with the exception of a few special cases on floodplains or other. We therefore see the relevance of introducing a mechanism to combine crop insurance and agricultural disasters. As long as we do not have such a system under which an insurance company takes over the losses of between 20% and 30% and the scheme applies beyond 30% – the minimum threshold under European rules – we will not be able to provide a satisfactory response to the farmers you mention. This example thus demonstrates the relevance of the mechanism that we are working on and that would have been welcome if it had been put in place before the disasters that occurred last summer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u587	I have before me two amendments, Nos 124 and 242, second rectification, which may be subject to a joint debate. I call Mr Charles de Courson to support Amendment No. 124.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u588	I had tabled this amendment, which recalls that the rules on non-retroactivity and non-retroactivity of contracts apply, because the wording of Article 12 was not acceptable as it stood – we agreed in committee. The rapporteur and the minister had committed themselves to tabling an amendment, which was done through Amendment No 242, the second amendment. So I'm removing mine.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u589	The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No 242, the second amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u590	He pointed out the very well-founded questions which had arisen at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The contracts under way on 1 January 2023 will remain in force in the terms in which they are drafted. Nevertheless, each farmer will be able to ask his insurer to bring his contract into conformity with the new scheme: he will be responsible for doing so, by way of an amendment to the contract or after termination and subscription of a new contract. In the absence of a request from the farmer, the current provisions of his contract will apply until the latter is tacitly renewed, for which the insurer will have a legal obligation to propose a contract in accordance with the new scheme. Let us be clear: this reform will apply on 1 January 2023. It is a matter of reassuring farmers who are concerned about the way in which the year 2021 happened; There is no question that they live two years in a row waiting for this new regime.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u591	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u592	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u593	Mr Charles de Courson has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u594	I would like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the drafting of his amendment, which states that the farmer "can" ask for his contract to be brought into line with the new regime. If he does not, let us be clear, he will come to an end and can even be renewed in the same terms with his insurer. However, there is one question that you do not address: what happens if the operator requests the amendment of his contract, in the form of an amendment, and the insurer refuses? As your amendment is drafted, we do not know that very well.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u595	Before I turn to the amendments to the additional clause after clause 12, I would like to inform you that, on the bill as a whole, I have a request for a public vote before the La République en marche and Les Républicaines groups. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor to support Amendment No. 55.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u596	It takes up an idea reflected in several of our amendments and calls for a report on the creation of a mutual and solidarity professional fund at national level, supervised by the public authorities – the State and the European Union – that would participate in its financing. This fund would involve a variety of contributors in the name of food security and solidarity throughout the chain, ensuring full sharing of risks between farmers. It would be managed by all contributors, with a majority given to farmers' representatives, with public actors present at all stages. This fund would ensure universal coverage of all farms, i.e. basic coverage of all crops, including when they are diversified, in the face of climate risks. It would be abounded by solidarity within the sectors – inter-professionals, suppliers of agro-equipment and inputs, processors and large-scale distribution – since agricultural production benefits the whole chain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u597	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u598	I am against your amendment. We are not going to ask the Government to prepare a report on an alternative hypothesis, when the mechanism will not even be in force. I repeat, this text is the result of years of concerted action. The working group I chaired in the framework of the Varenne agricole de l'eau et de l'adaptation à changement climatique has examined all the assumptions, including the one you are referring to. A political choice was made, in a consensus logic. I do not see the point of requesting a report from the Government on this alternative hypothesis, which had been costed by the State services in the framework of this working group. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u599	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor to support Amendment No. 167.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u600	This is an appeal amendment – and even a PCV appeal, since the Government will bear the cost, if adopted. We would like the Government to submit to Parliament a report presenting the possibility and implications of an increase from 70 per cent to 80 per cent of the maximum subsidy rate for which the premiums for climate risk insurance contracts may be awarded. In accordance with Community rules, the European Union's financial contribution to crop insurance can amount to up to 80% of the cost of premiums. Since our proposal could not be amended, for reasons of financial admissibility, we ask you to specify, in a report, the ceilings that you would be prepared to reach.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u601	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u602	We do not have the same interpretation of Community law, Mr Aubert. To my knowledge, the Omnibus Regulation does not allow us to go beyond 70%. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u603	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u604	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u605	Mr Julien Aubert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u606	This deserves a substantive debate, knowing that our amendment has been worked with the lawyers of several agricultural unions. In your opinion, the Omnibus Regulation does not allow for more than 70%; However, the EU Delegated Regulation 2021/ 2026 of 13 September 2021 indicates that the Union's financial contribution to crop insurance can amount to up to 80 % of the cost of premiums. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] If I commit a legal error, I am prepared to withdraw my amendment. It would have been interesting, however, to have benefited from the Government, which has more resources than we, the poor parliamentarians of the opposition, to deepen European regulation. [[Smile]] The fact that you are protesting shows that the Members of the majority are much richer!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u607	All they have to do is reach out!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u608	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u609	I do not think I am wrong in saying that the regulation to which you refer does not apply to all sectors – it seems that it concerns viticulture. Indeed, your amendment would not be general in scope. However, I do not want the law to contain any provisions specific to particular sectors. For these reasons, I maintain my unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u610	I have two identical amendments before me, Nos 227 and 235. I call Mr Venteau to support Amendment No. 227.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u611	It aims to provide full information to Parliament on the effects of the reform of climate risk management in agriculture. The setting by decree of the modalities for triggering the thresholds from which the State subsidises premiums for multi-risk insurance contracts, as well as the loss thresholds from which contracts become eligible under the subsidy mechanism, should enable all parliamentarians to adapt these thresholds to the specificities of the various sectors. That is the subject of our request for a report.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u612	I call Mr Luc Lamirault to support Amendment No. 235.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u613	Like the previous amendment, it is intended to strengthen Parliament's information on the monitoring of this Act and on the effects of the reform. For example, we request that the Government provide Parliament with a report on the application of subsidy triggering thresholds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u614	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u615	Favourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u616	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u617	I rely on the wisdom of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u618	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 108.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u619	Out of 6,000 farmers, only 10% have entered into climate hazard insurance contracts, mainly for field crops. Tree growers and wine growers are particularly poorly protected against these risks. The cost of premiums and the requirement to suffer 30% of losses do not mean that farmers are forced to make massive payments. The system of agricultural disasters, which provides the profession with minimum guarantees, has been the subject of successive reductions in the level of public guarantees to the benefit of large private insurance companies. The current system, known as agricultural disasters, is no longer adapted to the new situation of climate change observed over the past several years. With this amendment, we propose the creation of a body to assess the current system of agricultural risk management and to provide for improvements within CNGRA. This body would play a complementary role to that of CODAR. If the bill introduces improvements, the creation of a permanent evaluation body would allow regular consideration of upgrades.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u620	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u621	I do not quite understand your amendment, Madam Member. If it is a question of examining the current system for responding to disasters, your request is met by the impact assessment and the preparatory work for this bill. If it is a matter of reviewing the application of the law that you are proposed to vote on, your request is met by CODAR. Unless I have misunderstood your amendment, I would ask you to withdraw it; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u622	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u623	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u624	I have before me four amendments, No 243, 54, 170, 211, which can be discussed jointly. Amendments Nos 54, 170 and 211 are identical. The rapporteur has the floor to support Amendment No. 243.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u625	The aim is to provide for a mid-term review clause: within four years of the enactment of this Act, we ask the Government to submit to Parliament a report assessing its impact. As the system we anticipate is evolving, it is important to assess, at least at the mid-point, the success or failure of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u626	Amendments Nos 54 by Mr Dominique Potier, 170 by Mr Julien Aubert and 211 by Mr Vincent Descoeur are defended. What is the Committee's opinion on the three identical amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u627	Unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u628	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u629	I am in favour of the rapporteur's amendment, and I am against the other three amendments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u630	Amendment No 199 by Mrs Marie-Christine Verdier-Jouclas is being defended. What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u631	I call for the amendment to be withdrawn; Otherwise, my opinion will be unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u632	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u633	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u634	Mr Antoine Herth, in support of Amendment No. 205, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u635	With this request for a report, we would like the Government to communicate to Parliament, before 1 September each year, all the elements necessary to monitor the evolution of the insurance system and the financial bases involved, in order to inform the debate on the draft finance law. I would have liked to have completed this amendment with an appeal to Parliament – but the legislative framework does not allow it, and I would like to speak to a virtual parliament, since it will be renewed next June: the success of the reform will also depend on the quality of the involvement of parliamentarians in its follow-up, its adaptation and the provision of information on it. This is a necessary condition for the structural reform that we are about to vote for to be a success, which I wish for France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u636	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u637	I fully support your statement, and I strongly support your amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u638	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u639	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 102 Number of votes cast 97 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 94 Against 3
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u640	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u641	Thank you for the quality of our debates, sometimes very technical but extremely important. I thank the rapporteur and his staff, as well as my teams and the co-ordinator of the text. My thanks go also to the parliamentarians on the various sides for their constructive spirit, not to mention the chairman of the sitting. This legislation is an important step for our farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-12-O1120.u642	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Motion for a resolution to recognise endometriosis as a long-term condition; Proposal for a law to block prices; Proposal for a constitutional law to introduce a right of dismissal of elected officials; Proposal for a law on the nationalization of motorway concessionary companies; Bill to prohibit glyphosate; Proposal for a law on the legalization of the production, sale and consumption of cannabis under State control; Bill to rehabilitate soldiers "trapped for example" during the First World War; Proposal for a law to restore the rule of law by abrogating emergency regimes created during the health crisis. Motion for a resolution calling on the Government to withdraw France from NATO. The meeting is adjourned.
