ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u1	The next item is the debate on the development of mental health in the context of a health crisis and the responses to it from our public policies. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Chantal Jourdan has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u2	The finding is unanimous, and it is alarming: in the context of health, social and economic insecurity that we have been experiencing for the past two years, the signs of psychological suffering in the population have multiplied. The pandemic has highlighted and aggravated the shortcomings of our system of care for mental disorders, both in terms of prevention and in terms of support and treatment. There is an urgent need because, apart from the health crisis, the situation was already worrying. In France, one in five people is affected each year by a mental disorder, or 13 million people. The suicide rate is 13.2 per 100,000 inhabitants, which is one of the highest levels in comparable European development countries. There is an urgent need because, in the context of the health crisis, although some disorders have decreased during the first confinement, all studies show a general deterioration of mental health. Anxiety disorders reach very high levels and depression has more than doubled. Sleep disorders are on the rise, as well as addictive behaviours. Older persons have been particularly affected in the past two years. As we know, aging is accompanied by a prevalence of mental disorders, especially depressive disorders and neurodegenerative diseases. Older people living in institutions are particularly affected. Isolation is one of the main causes of this degraded psychological state and its effect has been strengthened with the health crisis. For young people, too, the last two years have been very challenging. In adolescents and young adults, all social links and landmarks have been disrupted. In addition to the isolation that a large part of them felt in a very violent way, there was a strong sense of concern about their schooling, the value of their diploma or their future job placement, not to mention their difficult financial situation. The result is clear – and the feedback from professionals on this issue must be heard: almost 40% of young people aged 18 to 24 reported experiencing anxiety disorders in February 2021. The end of 2020 and the year 2021 were marked by an increase in suicidal behaviour, particularly among young girls. While the explanations for these differentiated phenomena are not yet well established, we must be able to quickly aggregate data, particularly by sex, age and social environment, in order to carry out targeted public policies. Children have evolved over the past two years in very special conditions: in the school circle and in the family circle, habits and interactions have been disrupted and tensions and violence have increased. Distancing measures, confinements, class closures, evolutionary protocols pose a number of problems, as well as the fact that children have been living with masked faces for the past two years. In this regard, could we not consider a widespread distribution of inclusive masks to staff in contact with children? With regard to the latter, the studies and feedback of professionals are also worrying: anxiety and depressive disorders are increasing, cognitive and behavioural disorders are also increasing. Again, a reflection on the specific accompaniment to be provided for the next few years must be undertaken very quickly. There is an urgent need, because the structures taking care of mental disorders are breathless. Many services are saturated and waiting lists continue to grow. Is it acceptable to wait two years to be taken care of? In this regard, loss of sense affects both patients and caregivers. In view of this, what about our public policies? In recent years, issues relating to mental health care have begun to integrate public debate. This included the establishment in 2016 of Territorial Mental Health Projects (PTSM) and, more recently, the development of the Mental Health and Psychiatry Roadmap. Nevertheless, it was the health crisis that made it possible to put the issue at the forefront, leading the Government to launch various psychological support mechanisms and to organize, in September 2021, the foundations of mental health. However, this last event was criticized by all the professions in the sector, which did not feel really listened to and considered. For their part, the arrangements put in place are difficult to meet the needs. This is particularly the case with the student shrink check, whose limited number of sessions does not allow for the treatment of persistent trauma, deer or depression. In the framework of the Social Security Financing Act for 2022, the Government had also proposed a mechanism for reimbursement of psychological counselling, but it had aroused considerable dissatisfaction on the part of the profession. Of course, it goes in the right direction, but, as we have already had the opportunity to say here, the planned modalities – address, number and duration of predefined and limited sessions, sub-tariffs – do not seem to us to meet the needs. Can you tell us, Mr. Secretary of State for Children and Families, when the implementing decree will be issued and how you intend to compensate for the little inclination of psychologists to register in the scheme? In the area of mental health, the Government was trying to close the gaps. Yet it is a global reshaping of the organization of care that we need to do. Reform of the financing of psychiatry, for example, seems to be of little relevance without a clear outline with quantified objectives. We propose that a framework law should set out the main objectives for mental health. To achieve them, a multi-year plan, based on a concrete needs assessment, would be drawn up after a real consultation, territory-by-territory, of field professionals and public and private structures. Important work must be done on prevention and detection, as these lines of action are insufficiently taken into account. There is a need for a public health policy that informs and prevents, so as to change the outlook on mental health. It is necessary to raise public awareness and to inform, from an early age, about how to detect signs of a disorder – by training not only all professionals in contact with children, but also the children themselves. In college, it is necessary to talk about anxiety, depression, food and addictive disorders. There is also a need to strengthen the resources dedicated to school medicine and accompanying persons, such as psychologists of national education, school nurses, education assistants (AEDs), accompanying students with disabilities (AESHs), etc. The causes of social environment disorders must also be addressed. How can we admit that burn-outs and suicides at work are on the rise? Can you, Mr. Secretary of State, provide us with any information on the Government's policy in this area? The other key area of work must be accessibility of care. The density of psychiatrists is very uneven in the territory. The problem is even more visible in the case of child psychiatrists, with seventeen departments without practitioners. This must be compared with the problem of medical demography in the psychiatric sector and the difficulties encountered in attracting young interns to psychiatry. The attractiveness of the sector must be placed at the heart of our public mental health policies. We could, for example, consider the obligation to do an internship in psychiatry as part of medical studies. It is also necessary to upgrade all the professions in the sector and to give the necessary resources to the structures to operate in a multidisciplinarity. Psychologists, in particular, have a fundamental role to play in care. Recruitment has also become difficult in this area, particularly in the last two years. Hospitalization capacity in psychiatry is also very uneven. On the ground, there is widespread evidence that the resources released by the Government are largely inadequate and do not translate into human and material reinforcements. It is essential to rethink the cooperation and complementarity between caregivers, to train more nurses and nurses, but also the personnel of the medical and social sector in the management of mental disorders, and to value these skills. What is the Government's action in this regard? Finally, more broadly, we must draw the structural lessons from what we have experienced over the past two years, although the health crisis is not over. The desire to return to a normal situation should not prevent us from thinking deeply about the societal factors that affect mental health. The scientific note of OPECST, the Parliamentary Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices, on psychosocial balances at the test of covid-19 is very enlightening in this respect. These observations need to be taken into account and fall within the scope of a major mental health plan. To improve the mental health of all, nothing like strengthening social cohesion, fostering a sense of utility and regaining a sense of purpose.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u3	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u4	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist and Related Group for putting this debate on the agenda of the last week of parliamentary control. This is an eminently important subject, which has long been a dead end to our public policies and which deserves to be debated by national representation. For the past two years, the pandemic has profoundly affected the mental health of the French. In fact, we are not an exception: the phenomenon is global. The World Health Organization (WHO) is also witnessing a worsening of access to psychological care worldwide. Let me quote one who has not missed one of our debates for almost a century and a half – I am of course referring to Aristotle, the gentleman with the blue toge who has been watching us since the tapestry The School of Athens – and for whom man is a sociable being, whom nature has made to live with his fellowmen. Consequently, the confinements, curfews and closures of places of conviviality, which were of course necessary to curb the spread of the virus, and thus save lives, have also greatly affected the morale of our fellow citizens. In addition to the lack of social ties, anxiety for oneself and loved ones and anxiety about getting sick, coupled with less physical activity, increased exposure to screens and increased addictive practices have been added. These difficulties were exacerbated at the beginning of the crisis, while isolation measures were at the height of the crisis. For the most precarious, this meant promiscuity in small apartments and economic insecurity; for students, the loss of small jobs, the cancellation of international mobility projects and the feeling of missing out on their most beautiful years; for children, finally, the disappearance of recreations and social ties, and the withdrawal to the family unit. A combination of very heterogeneous situations, emotional, social or educational breakdowns has thus struck our fellow citizens unequally according to their age, standard of living or place of residence. Expressions of ill-being, and even psychological distress, have increased especially among young people and people in precarious situations. I also do not forget the patients of the covid who have also been more exposed than others to the increase in mental pathologies. Two years after the outbreak began, the numbers are still at worrying levels: 18% of French people show signs of depressive disorder and 23% have an anxiety state, almost ten points higher than in 2019. While the problem of mental health has already been identified for a long time, the crisis has made us more aware of the need to make it a priority of our public health policies. Mental health spending, with more than €23 billion each year, is our first health expenditure item in the face of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. While mental health is often considered to be the poor parent of medicine, the pandemic has thus highlighted the structural difficulties of our management systems, but also – and perhaps above all – of our preventive devices. Aware of the consequences that successive confinements would have on the mental health of the French, the Agres ensemble has been on alert since the beginning and has shown itself to be a force for proposals to the Government. We welcomed and strongly supported the various measures that the latter and its majority have taken to deal with them. Of course, I am thinking of the mental health and psychiatry roadmap, which has set goals and a clear method since 2018 to identify mental disorders early and improve the care path and the inclusion of sick people. I am also thinking of Ségur de la santé, which makes it possible to strengthen the presence of psychologists in medical-psychological centres and multidisciplinary health centres. Finally, I am thinking of the measures announced in September by the President of the Republic at the conclusion of the foundations of mental health and psychiatry. All these measures are in the right direction; They show our determination to act for the mental health of the French, but need to be further and further strengthened. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about the mental health of children who have been particularly affected by the consequences of the health crisis. Paedopsychiatry concentrates several old and structural difficulties that you do not ignore. I am thinking in particular of waiting times in medical-psychological centres – CMP – infanto-juveniles which are sometimes far too long to allow quality care. So, what are your avenues for action to promote mental health at an early age?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u5	Mr Guy Bricout has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u6	I would also like to thank the Socialist and Related Group for raising such an important subject. The figures are implacable: according to a survey published by Santé publique France on 23 December, 18% of French people show signs of depressive disorders, 23% an anxiety state, eight to nine points more than before the pandemic. Another equally alarming figure: a few days ago, the Economic, Social and Environmental Council of my region, the Hauts-de-France, published a report on the population of 600,000 people in depression and 200000 suffering from a psychological pathology. Our young people risk paying the high price. Since the beginning of the year 2021, the use of emergencies for mental disorders of the child has been higher than in 2018 and 2019 – more than 16% – and marked by two significant peaks in March and June 2021. There was a further increase in appeals in September 2021 and their level remained high in October and November among adolescents. The most recent annual report of the Ombudsman for the Rights of the Child gives the alarm, calling for the mental health of the child to be a public priority. In particular, it points to the lack of child psychiatrists and psychologists in medical-psychological and medical-psycho-pedagogical centres. The same report proposes to set up a home for teenagers in each department. What do you think, Secretary of State? What is the status of the survey on the mental health of children under the age of 11 that you launched a few months ago in school? Students were also particularly affected, many of whom accumulated confinement away from their families – often in small spaces – and increased financial problems for food and housing. To this was added the anxiety of being restrained in their curriculum, or even of obtaining a diploma at the discount. The figures, again, are instructive: a survey by the Institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale – INSERM – and the University of Bordeaux indicates that 37% of the students surveyed suffer from depressive problems and anxiety and that 13% have suicidal thoughts. My question is simple: what long-term means do you intend to deploy? I'm thinking of shrink checks whose effectiveness seems to be at stake. A survey by the Observatoire de la vie étudiant, published in November, shows that only 2% of respondents use it. The experts also stress that the MonPsySanté system, which provides for reimbursement of medical prescription sessions of 30 euros, will only allow for interviews of 30 minutes, which is far from sufficient for a child or adolescent. In addition, assistance is limited to 20 sessions and excludes many people, including those suffering from severe disorders. It also has an impact on the remuneration of practitioners, who feel they are once again devalued. What else can be said about the lack of beds in our hospitals that are sorely felt? It is thus not possible to hospitalize, as advocated by the High Health Authority, all adolescents who should be, especially those who have attempted suicide. It's a tragedy. Do you intend to allocate the necessary means so that at last caregivers do not have to choose which young person they care for and which young person they let go home in deep distress? Another point is of particular concern: the exhaustion of the medical profession, which is involved over and over again, but does not feel recognized, is breathless and no longer able to find meaning to its commitment. Its members have a deep sense of being at best listened to, at worst despised. In the North, there has been a decline in retirement age from 65.8 years to 64.6 years and a decrease in employment-retirement cumulations. This will, of course, continue to affect access to care and, consequently, the monitoring of psychiatric problems. Mr Secretary of State, our country does not have the right to abandon the mental health of its fellow citizens. It must anticipate and put the means where they are really indispensable. Of course, you have announced 80 million euros of new appropriations, but key questions remain: how will they be allocated exactly? Will they be assigned to priority positions? When are you going to establish a real dialogue with all the parties? Several collectives have asked you to enter into real joint negotiations with the representative bodies of patients and psychologists. Will you answer them? In November, I asked you, through a written question that remained unanswered, about how you intended to alleviate the concerns of psychologists, without which it will be difficult to structure a mental health policy worthy of that name. Can you answer that today?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u7	Mr Jean-Félix Acquaviva has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u8	Since the beginning of the health crisis, the covid epidemic has forced us to deal with the emergency and to take extraordinary measures to preserve the physical health of all at the risk of damaging our psychological well-being. Since the first confinement, all the measures taken force us to reduce social relations and physical activity in the name of the barrier gestures. They have resulted in stress, anxiety, depression and have not been without consequences in terms of delayed care and delays in screening and management. The impact of the crisis is major for those who were already in vulnerable situations. The most exposed segments of the population are young people, students, people with financial difficulties, inactive and job-seekers, and people who have already suffered from psychological disorders in the past. Everything has become a source of anxiety: its health and that of its loved ones, but also its economic situation. What can be said about the feelings of frustration, anger and impotence experienced in the face of this crisis that does not end? The feeling of loneliness, or even isolation, has been an aggravating factor, with the situation of our elders, in whom there have been many slipping phenomena, being particularly worrying in this regard. As for the little ones, they tell us with their words that they are sad that they can't play together anymore, that they can't see their friends anymore. Let us not minimize their suffering. On the other hand, it is not because they have returned to college that students no longer have mental health problems. More than a third of them suffer from depressive disorders, which may worsen over time. However, it appears that only 14,000 students have benefited from the shrink check, while the number of young people suffering from fragile mental health is estimated at 2.7 million. A number of psychologists reportedly withdrew from the system. Mr. Secretary of State, what sustainability do you envisage for the latter? These difficulties have been added to those pre-existing in the crisis, while the field of psychiatry has been suffering for a long time. In our country, 30 per cent of practice positions are vacant and many in-house positions are not filled. The shortage of psychiatrists is such that institutions are forced to close beds or merge. My colleague Jennifer De Temmerman was alerting you a few months ago about the situation in Bailleul, but we are seeing the same phenomenon in all territories. Psychiatry, in fact, no longer seduces students. How could it be otherwise given the low level of wages and the deterioration of working conditions? However, the crisis leads to saturation of establishments. We are still seeing an increase in suicide attempts among under 15s, especially among young girls. In child psychiatry services, care requests have increased by 40 per cent over the past two years. However, the Government had announced that mental health was a major focus of its national My Health 2022 strategy. Indeed, many of our colleagues have produced reports on which an ambitious reform could be based. But it must be noted that beyond a few measures, and despite a new €40 million envelope, we will not see our psychiatry care system benefit from a plan of magnitude. The foundation of mental health came late in the quinquennium, leaving little time to learn from it; We regret it. A mechanism was very much expected, that of taking care of the psychologist's consultations. It was introduced in the latest Social Security Financing Bill, but does not take into account the demands and concerns of professionals. The routes proposed, which put the generalist at the heart of the device, are too heavy and inadequate for the needs of patients. The fees for consultations are too low to attract psychologists. The experiments carried out so far have not convinced the professionals, since only 5% of those who were eligible participated. We are concerned that the proposed device is poorly calibrated and misses the goal of making psychology accessible to all. The covid-19 epidemic once again revealed the urgency of the mental health problem, which has long been the poor parent of public health policy. We will bear for a long time, individually and collectively, the stigmas of this unprecedented crisis. It is up to us to react and not to leave our mental health in the background.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u9	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u10	Last July, senior health officials in the WHO European region issued an alert on the "sustainable and profound" impact of the covid-19 pandemic on mental health: "Anxiety to the transmission of the virus, psychological impact of confinement and self-isolation, effects of unemployment, financial worries and social exclusion, access to care in person... everyone is affected in one way or another. One expert noted, however, that "the pandemic, devastating in many ways, gives countries an opportunity to rethink and reform their mental health services. This is an opportunity that no country can afford to miss if we want to rebuild by improving and consolidating. » Unfortunately, this is not the path this government has chosen to take. Between repeated lies, conflicting injunctions, excessive restrictions on rights and freedoms, threats of denial of care and stigmatization of a part of the population, the more authoritarian than health-care policy carried out over the past two years has worsened than improved the psychological state of the population, already severely degraded. As the previous speakers have pointed out, this is reflected in an increase in depressive, anxious and mood and post-traumatic stress disorder, the development of long-term covid psychosomatic pathologies, particularly marked learning and development problems among very young people, and the explosion of suicidal behaviour. All age groups are affected. But the deterioration of mental health, which has accelerated, thrives over fifty years of destruction of the management of these disorders in France. Since the establishment of the sector psychiatry, health facilities have, without interruption since the 1970s, been reducing the number of hospital beds, while the number of patients and patients has continued to increase. As in other areas of health, this policy was not interrupted during the pandemic, on the contrary: 300 hospital beds in psychiatry have been closed or are about to be closed. In Sarlat, 14 out of 38 beds were removed; 75 beds were closed at Le Vinatier Hospital in Lyon; In Rennes, 20 beds were closed due to a shortage of doctors; In Rouvray, 80 beds have been closed while caregivers have been demonstrating since 2018 to get the means to do their job; In Créteil, 20 beds were transferred to a private clinic; In Saint-Cyr-sur-Loire, 20 to 40 beds will close by 2026, as part of a merger within the regional university hospital center of Tours. The only response that the Government was able to boast about the health emergency was the introduction of eight 30-minute psychotherapy sessions on medical prescription – a device, by the way, resulting from a government amendment tabled at the last minute. It is found to be inadequate by psychologists and professionals in the sector. Depressive disorders, anxiety and post-traumatic stress are not treated in such a short period of time, and at a level of pay that is far more indicative of a lack of consideration of the work of professionals and of the seriousness of the disorders to which patients suffer than of a true consideration of the situation. In order to prevent the continued deterioration of the mental health of the population, it is necessary to put an end to the unnecessary and anxiety-free measures that have followed for several months and to the devices that, such as fee-for-service, contribute to the destruction of public health, in particular in the hospital. There is a need to invest heavily in community mental health structures and to raise the salaries and status of all health professionals, as well as the medical and social sector, which is actively involved in the treatment of mental health – and which was still mobilized this week to protest its outright exclusion from the meagre concessions granted during the Secur de la santé, and against its lack of consideration in the foundations of mental health. Health and mental well-being, as the WHO experts for Europe remind us, must be seen as fundamental human rights. Improving public health services can only benefit everyone. Not only will it mitigate the impact of covid on health, but it will contribute to the sustainable improvement of overall health and save money, which will facilitate economic recovery and the achievement of strategic objectives. That's what we'll be working on in April and June 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u11	We'll see!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u12	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u13	The announcements made at the end of the mental health foundation reveal a very unfortunate choice: not to rely on public service. It is true that the services of mental health are in great pain: they are cruelly lacking in resources and have been degraded by political choices, those of underfunding, while they should be the lever of an ambitious policy of mental health. On the contrary, it is a management approach to care that has been adopted. We repeat, health must not be a commodity. However, it is precisely the meaning of the reform of the financing of psychiatry activities, which will change the method of financing public psychiatry, which is already chronically underfunded, by replacing the overall allocation with fee-for-service. This method of financing is based on activity pricing (T2A), already widespread in the hospital world, which consists of measuring the activity of establishments to calculate the resources allocated. This measure, even from the admission of psychiatrists, will undoubtedly impose a certain type of practice designed to maximize the number of patients. This public health policy organizes, let's say, a particularly juicy market for care, and the platforms rub their hands with it; They even sometimes receive awards and other awards for innovation. This approach is part of the individualisation of benefits, which leaves on the side a collective response to a social and medical problem, but also a social problem – we see indeed how the dehumanization of entire parts of our lives is also to be treated. In the face of increased demand for care, human resources and capacity to receive care are declining, and the political measures that are being taken are not up to the challenge. The announcement by Emmanuel Macron of the creation of 800 posts in adult and infanto-juvenile medical-psychological centres is cruelly insufficient in the face of the queues that lie in these public structures of free consultation for anyone suffering from mental illness; In addition, it is not fully operational with respect to posts and those who may be present. On the other hand, the situation of services for the mental health of children and young people is not only degraded; She's in distress. I am thinking of the CMPs whose professionals say everywhere how difficult they are to meet the needs, to the point that dramas end up looming. However, these proximity structures make it possible to know the patients who are being treated. According to figures recorded by Robert Debré Hospital, suicide attempts by minors under 15 years of age in September and October 2021 doubled compared to the same period in 2019. The lack of attractiveness of the profession of school psychologist has a strong impact on the health of school children. The National Education Psychologists Competition offers few places. France is understaffed. According to the 2016 Moro-Brison report, there was at the time one psychologist for 1,600 pupils, while the European average was one psychologist for 800 pupils, and even one for 600 pupils in Finland. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the attractiveness of the school psychologist profession, by increasing salaries and careers and by increasing the number of open posts. At the same time, this effort must be part of another approach to mental health. It is not for patients to adapt to the world as it is – especially since it tends to walk on the head. On the contrary, humanized care must be provided that adapts to patients. National education psychologists should also be appointed as technical advisers to DASEN, the academic directors of the national education services, in order to take more systematic account of the psychological dimension of difficulties within the school. Finally, the psychological health of students also worsened during the health crisis. Not only does the shrink check not meet the needs, but it is so low paid that it increases the precariousness of young psychologists. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Ms. Chantal Jourdan also applauds]] I will conclude by greeting all the staff who, for several years, have been ringing the alarm by not just saying that it is not right, but rather saying that it is going very badly in this sector. They're asking for humanized close care. In this regard, I particularly welcome the Spring of Psychiatry initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u14	Mrs Anissa Khedher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u15	Mental health has long been left in the dead end of health policies and is now at the top of the agenda. Mental health problems account for 7.4% of the causes of disability; They have therefore become an unavoidable problem. As a health executive in psychiatry and a member of the supervisory board of the Hospital Le Vinatier in Lyon, I am aware of the weight that mental health problems place on our society. I therefore welcome the many initiatives taken by the Government and I say this clearly here: we must go even further! Three million French people suffer from severe mental disorders. One in five people – or 13 million people – is affected by mental suffering. The deterioration of the mental health of the French is one of the consequences of covid. The issue of mental health prevention and treatment has become a major issue. Social distancing, distance learning and teleworking, to name but a few, are factors of isolation that have a deleterious effect on the psychism of a number of our fellow citizens, especially young children and adolescents; Risk behaviours are increasing significantly. The situation of health care professionals is particularly worrying: prevalence of symptoms of anxiety, depression and peri-traumatic dissociation – the highest rates being observed among nurses. Many study and accompaniment schemes have emerged with the health crisis in an attempt to address these problems which have become obvious. This dynamic must be continued, starting by consolidating what works best. I am thinking of the various working groups and study cells set up around the ministerial delegation to mental health and psychiatry, public health France, regional health agencies (ARS) and the High Council for Public Health. These initiatives need to be developed in order to sustain them beyond their contribution to the single environment of the health crisis. The psychiatry and mental health sector now has to adapt to the challenges ahead, with the emergence of new needs in the population, especially among the younger ones suffering from depressive, anxious and addictive symptoms, but also the care of the burn-out of caregivers working in hospitals and medical-social structures. Nurses in advanced practice in psychiatry have an essential role to play in PMCs and adolescents' homes, but also in schools and workplaces, to detect and prevent mental suffering. I recall that national and targeted communication campaigns began in 2021 to raise awareness of mental health issues and to bring down fear-fed taboos. On 1 October 2021, a national suicide prevention phone number was set up. The Government has taken up these issues and I want to stress the importance it has given to the support of our citizens: the funds allocated to psychiatry have increased by 2.4 per cent in 2021. The Government fully supports the ambition set out in the updated road map in the territories, with the development of a culture of mental health and prevention, the promotion of a population-based approach and the strengthening of the attractiveness of psychiatry, or the consolidation of territorial mental health projects to support these dynamics. Finally, on the occasion of the strategic committee bringing together all the players in mental health and psychiatry, on 21 January 2022, Olivier Véran recalled that the preservation of the mental health of the French is a constant concern of the Government. This is reflected in the foundations of mental health and psychiatry, which were closed by the President of the Republic last September; He then announced a series of strong measures expected by the sector. On that occasion, he recalled the importance of triptych consideration-information-prevention in addressing the issue of mental health. It is important that discussion, reflection and action on the subject of mental health do not weaken. It's a big issue in the face of an invisible enemy who doesn't always say what he is or who hides behind taboos and fears. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I want to pay tribute to the mental health teams, who mobilized during the health crisis that struck our country. Finally, I would also like to reiterate that we must not weaken and that we must continue our efforts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u16	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u17	The evolution of mental health in the context of the health crisis deserves our full attention. Over the past two years of the pandemic, multiple strategies have been implemented to reduce health risks and restrictions have had serious consequences for a large part of the population. Of course, the virus is still there and there is a need to maintain vigilance but using tools developed through dialogue with the actors on the ground. Indicators show an increase in mental disorders. Every day, psychologists warn about increasing requests for therapy or consultation. They even sometimes say that they are not able to respond to them, as many of them are. It is unacceptable that in 2021 18 per cent of French citizens, nearly one in five, show signs of depressive disorder and 23 per cent have an anxiety state. This is all the more so since these figures were 10% and 14% respectively before the pandemic. Moreover, some studies show that 10% of French people had suicidal thoughts in the past year, twice as many as before the pandemic. The Government has already formulated several responses to the deterioration of the mental state of the French. It must be noted that the various isolation strategies have had a perverse effect on our fellow citizens. What is needed is targeted support that takes into account the specificities of particularly vulnerable populations. I am thinking of schoolchildren, young people, older people and more broadly of all our fellow citizens in a situation of economic, psychological and emotional fragility. I am thinking of the victims of domestic violence, who have never been as massive as during confinements, exposing all members of the same family to abuse without the possibility of getting out of it. As a result of the constraints induced by the medical pass and then vaccination, many residents of EHPAD and retirement homes have found themselves cut off from their loved ones, which has precipitated some of them into a state of grief and despair, a slip syndrome just as dangerous as the epidemic risk. As for the families who are still unable to accompany their loved ones in their last moments, they also suffer from trouble, faced with the fact that they are unable to engage in mourning work. I am also thinking of the students whose psychic distress shows that they are unable to find themselves there, given the upheavals they are undergoing. The depressive symptoms of which they suffer are all indicative signs of their ill-being in the face of an opaque future in a society that struggles to draw an exit from crisis. I'm still thinking about school children wearing a mask all day, even outside. I am thinking of the school sector and the suffering it has had to endure as a result of the waltz of protocols, which has demonstrated the Government's inability to have a clear vision of the realities on the ground. The introduction of the past but above all the discourse that supports it fractures the population, creates divisions within families, creates tensions among professionals. This deleterious cleavage does not favour the cohesion of the nation, which is necessary to deal with the challenges it has to respond to in this crisis that exceeds that of the covid. We must be able to offer a system of support deployed throughout the country with targeted local offers. Mental health is often perceived as the poor parent of the French health system. It is limited to seeking emergency solutions to protect in the most fragile and precarious immediacy. Let us not forget that our republican motto includes the magnificent word "fraternity", a specific bond that unites us and justifies taking care of each other. It is now time to consider directives which, for the sake of protection, have led to protocols which do not take into account those to which they apply. What does the Government intend to do with complaints from the hospital psychiatry sector and the clinician psychologists to whom I pay tribute for their work? What measures does it intend to take to address the various challenges posed by the degraded mental health of certain vulnerable populations in the context of the health crisis?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u18	Mr Luc Geismar has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u19	Since the beginning of the health crisis, a range of measures have been put in place to combat the covid-19 virus, including confinements and social distancing rules. Although these actions have limited the spread of the epidemic, the psychological health of the French has been severely tested. The pandemic has caused stress due to the disease, uncertainty about the future, distension of social ties, in short, there is no shortage of reasons for us all to be worn out by this difficult period. It is a part of the French who is even more affected by the side effects of the health crisis, I obviously want to talk about our young people who have had to take part of their distance courses and have been deprived of access to culture, sport – more generally leisure. They were forced to share fewer moments of sociability in class or outside and were pushed towards increased use of screens and virtual exchanges. All this explains the undeniable impact on their psychological health, especially among young children. The seriousness of this situation for young people and children has been taken into account by the Government and has led to the reimbursement of psychologists' consultations from the age of three, an initiative welcomed by the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related Democrats. In addition, Public Health France recently launched a study on the well-being and mental health of children between the ages of 3 and 11, which should provide new elements to better act with these young people, who have grown up, for the younger age group, at the heart of the pandemic. It is essential to remain attentive to these issues and to strive to meet the challenges that have been facing us for the next two years. The health crisis has also highlighted the lack of staff in the medical and social centres and we therefore welcome the creation, announced by the President of the Republic, of 800 posts as early as 2022. These measures are part of the continuity of the commitments made since the beginning of the quinquennium on the first 1000 days of children. However, it is necessary to go further, in particular in recognition of the role of mental health in health and the need to act from an early age on these pathologies so that they do not settle permanently in adolescents and adults. It is therefore necessary to act upstream and massively train the educational world to identify as early as possible the disorders that may affect children. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] This particular attention to the mental health of young people, from an early age, is fundamental. She's responding to a growing emergency. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group therefore fully supports the progress made in the financing of child psychiatry and access to psychological care for the youngest. We will, of course, remain extremely attentive to future announcements and measures to continue the work undertaken in this direction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u20	The next speaker is the Secretary of State for Children and Families.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u21	The debate we have today, at the initiative of the Socialist and Related Group, proves this: we have never spoken so much about mental health in our country. And paradoxically, that's a very good thing. This is a very good thing because mental health is no longer covered with a pudic veil, it is no longer a taboo. We can look at her face and without fear, with adult eyes. It was essential in the period we are going through because, yes, if the health crisis has hit our fellow citizens hard in their daily lives, sometimes in their flesh, it has also revealed a great psychic vulnerability. This is one of the lessons we can learn from it: it has put mental health at the forefront of our concerns. The latest figures published by Santé publique France still recall this: 68% of French people report sleeping problems, 18% show signs of depressive state and 23% of anxiety state. From the beginning of the quinquennium, the observation has been established that for years, even decades, mental health and psychiatry had become the poor parent of our health policies and I note that today we are living a period that I will once again call paradoxical and exceptional for mental health and psychiatry in France. On the one hand, the pressure has never been so strong, the difficulties have never been so great, whether it is medical demography of concern, the lack of attractiveness of the discipline, the exhaustion of the teams, all of which you have pointed out. On the other hand, there has never been, at the highest political level, such commitments in favour of mental health and psychiatry, with the stated will to make it a true societal subject, supported by a collective awareness of their respective importance. In this regard, the foundations of mental health and psychiatry of 27 and 28 September, closed by the President of the Republic, marked a major turning point. They delivered three essential messages. The first is that mental health, an integral part of our health, is a subject that concerns us all and must be understood as such. The second is that it must be understood in a comprehensive manner, taking into account its different dimensions, in particular with regard to prevention and care. The third is that it requires a collective mobilization that must last beyond what was born during the crisis. A course is now set with strong Government direction and concrete measures. Never before had a government done so much for the mental health of our fellow citizens. The health crisis has worsened the mental state of our fellow citizens already observed before, especially among young people, and we have acted since 2018. At the initiative of Agnes Buzyn, three years ago, a roadmap for mental health and psychiatry was developed, led by ministerial delegate Frank Bellivier. Since then, it has been considerably enriched, first by specific measures in the Ségur de la santé, then by the thirty measures of the foundations of mental health, launched by the Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran. Some of these measures complement and implement ongoing actions, while others open up new areas of action. The mental health of the population was regularly monitored throughout the crisis through the production by Santé publique France of dashboards including data on children and young people and the monthly waves of the CoviPrev survey. In addition, a permanent survey on the mental health of children under 11 years of age, for which, it is true, we do not yet have comprehensive information, is being implemented in schools – this was one of the first requests of the President of the Republic, made as early as 14 January 2021. The fight against the stigmatization of mental disorders, their representation and the people affected by them has seen a decisive impetus as a result of the crisis. These subjects came out of silence, of a form of clandestineity, under the effect of the communication campaigns of Public Health France, in particular those intended for the general public in 2021; We will continue this approach, mainly for young people. As for the promotion of mental well-being, the development of psychosocial skills can now be organized from an early age and in all environments; As announced at the foundations of mental health and psychiatry, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health and the Ministry of National Education will present this quarter a multisectoral strategy to create a common frame of reference for the implementation of this initiative for children and young people. The prevention of mental suffering, for its part, calls for solidarity. The "First Aid in Mental Health" program contributes to this: we are very interested in this mechanism, which has proven its worth abroad and which is a very good vehicle for raising awareness. Its development within universities continues with the support of Minister Frédérique Vidal; Additional training modules for adolescents and the elderly are being deployed. The VigilanS system for the prevention of suicidal recidivism, deployed in 16 regions, included 202122000 patients; This year, beyond the regional objective, we aim for better coverage of the departments. In addition, since 1 October, a national suicide prevention number, 3114, can lead to eleven centres, three of which operate 24 hours a day: of the 27,000 calls already received, 10-15 per cent, or a significant proportion, involved a suicidal crisis requiring relief. The vital utility of this line is therefore no longer to be demonstrated. In 2022, to strengthen it, new centres will be opened, and we will carry out targeted communication actions. With regard to the care routes and the provision of an accessible, diversified and quality psychiatry offer, the effort has not eased, but, on the contrary, considerably increased and accelerated in recent months. Financial resources for psychiatry increased by 2.4 per cent in 2021; In addition, the transformation of psychiatric supply continued to be financially accompanied. A €40 million package has just been set up: €30 million for child and adolescent psychiatry, as well as perinatal psychiatry, which will fund eighty-seven projects to support the offer in these two areas; $10 million to fund forty-two projects in three years under the Organizational Innovation Fund in Psychiatry. This is the third funding campaign for these innovative organisational projects, with specific means; Its success demonstrates, if necessary, the capacity of the psychiatric care system, in all regions, to transform itself, to design more effective responses, better adapted to the needs, to create real paths between mobile teams, day hospitals and other institutions – because it is not only a question of open or closed beds, Mrs Obono. In 2022, in view of the success, I repeat, of these calls for projects and given the needs of psychiatry, a new edition will be proposed: the organizational innovation fund in psychiatry will be endowed with 10 million, 20 million will be used for the psychiatry of children and adolescents. As far as figures are concerned, I have heard of them in the course of your speeches, and I cannot find the source. Be aware that even before the foundations of mental health and psychiatry, 1.4 billion euros had been mobilised in connection with the 2018 roadmap; The measures announced at these meetings will require an additional 1.9 billion for the period 2022-2026. That is the reality of the means that this Government devotes to the mental health of our fellow citizens! Once again, the foundations have made it possible to announce long-awaited measures by the sector – you are right on this point – with a view to providing support as early as possible and to substantially strengthening medical coverage for mental health, as well as its accessibility. Children's and family's homes will ensure in the territories the coordination of the actors in the physical and mental health of children aged 3 to 11, following the model of these houses of adolescents whose first Marcel Rufo, long ago, was created in Marseilles. The Government has also committed itself to the latter, mobile teams, a psychiatric component of the Service d'accès aux soins (SAS) or on-demand beds in psychiatry. Work to develop these measures, which will be specified by the end of the first quarter, has already been initiated by the Directorate-General for the Provision of Care (DGOS), in conjunction with the relevant subcommittees of the National Psychiatric Commission, which is fully associated with them. Finally, the MonPsySanté system, a flagship measure announced by the President of the Republic at the close of the sittings, will allow people with mild to moderate mental disorders to benefit from eight sessions paid for by a contracted psychologist next spring. Contrary to what some of you have put forward, without any particular advertising, 1800 professionals have already registered on the corresponding platform...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u22	How many left her?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u23	... in order to integrate the scheme for the benefit of our citizens. The fees have been increased in comparison with the student and child experiences: 40 euros for the first consultation, which allows to draw up a balance sheet, 30 euros for the following. The decree which you asked for the date of publication, Madame Jourdan, is at the Council of State, so it cannot be delayed. MyPsyHealth will be a major step forward, especially for those who did not have access to these consultations, with a view to providing support that proved to be effective with children and students during the crisis. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, I said in the preamble that mental health and psychiatry have been for too long the poor relatives of our health policies, which we also share. I don't know if they are now like darling children; It is always that they are taken very seriously, that they have ceased to be mentioned only by the specialists, and that they are finally considered for what they are: a subject of society.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u24	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, as well as that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mr Hervé Saulignac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u25	Mental health is bad, while the French have never needed it so much. In my department, L'Ardèche, there are thirteen psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants, two child psychiatrists per 100,000 children: many remain without care. I could quote impressive testimony about the lack of resources, the suffering of caregivers, a staggering vacancy rate among hospital practitioners, the difficulties of institutions in recruiting caregivers or nurses. Several of us referred to the announcements made by the President of the Republic at the end of the foundations of mental health, and then by the Minister of Health at the Congress of the Encephalus from 19 to 21 January. Some of the realities come to bear on the optimism they show. The financing of the Ségur de la santé poses serious problems: it would appear that many institutions of the Federation of Hospital Institutions and Assistance to the Non-profit Private Person (FEHAP), among which all those in my region, the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, still expect at least part of the corresponding payments. Adding to this the reduction in Fillon reliefs, which had to compensate for the difference in charges with the hospital civil service, some institutions find themselves in a financial stalemate of several million euros, in such a way that recourse to the ARS is increasing, as well as litigation. We cannot both make great announcements and not pay these institutions what is due to them, decree a revalorisation of the salaries of hospital staff and deprive employers of some of their means: this amounts to ruining the expected effects of your measures on the quality of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u26	It's pretending!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u27	My question will therefore be very simple: when do you intend to pay the sums involved and honour the commitments of the Ségur de la santé?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u28	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u29	Mr President, these announcements are not of optimism but of voluntarism. We share your view of the state of the sector, which is the result of decades of abandonment – I do not accuse anyone, but the facts are indisputable. As for your question, I will answer it in three points. Firstly, the revalorisation measures provided for by the Ségur are the result of consultation with all the hospital federations, and the national objective of health insurance expenditure (ONDAM) takes into account their effects on the burden reliefs previously enjoyed by the institutions. The modalities of their financing have been discussed with each federation; This funding was then decided by field of activity on the basis of the proposals of the FEHAP, taken up by the Ministry. For 2021, all funds were disbursed. Secondly, it should be stressed once again that exceptional means have been mobilised: as of 2018, nearly 60 million to support psychiatric activity in regions where underfunding was most sensitive; in 2019, 80 million to support the transformation of psychiatric care provision in the territories; in 2020, 110 million in the continuity of the previous year. In 2021, new delegations of funds were granted to psychiatric institutions, in order to strengthen the provision of care and to continue the interregional catch-up undertaken since 2018 – some of you are well aware of the problem. Finally, again in 2021, a third budget circular allocated additional appropriations to psychiatry, of which the 40 million for the winners of the national calls for projects I have already mentioned, and the 500 million earmarked by Ségur for daily investments in health facilities were, again, fully paid to the ARS. Starting this year, a new model of funding for psychiatry will gradually be put in place: we will continue to refine it, together with the actors, including those you mentioned.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u30	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u31	Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you about a population of which we have been talking a lot lately: the elderly. Among other things, the health crisis gave us the opportunity to ask ourselves about our relationship to old age; It has highlighted the structural flaws of a home care or EHPAD that all too often leads to the abandonment of our elders. In view of the changing age structure, however, the loss of autonomy is a major challenge for our health care system. If it is not a disease, old age is often accompanied by suffering, including psychological suffering: isolation, loss of loved ones, failure of senses, loss of mobility, anxiety of death easily become the soil of major disorders or accelerate their evolution. Nearly 20% of people over the age of 60 have a mental or neurological health disorder. The result is anxiety, disorientation, depression, and even so-called slip syndrome. Such conditions therefore require increased medical care. However, there are few specific initiatives for seniors to prevent situations of ill-being. Mental health problems are often poorly identified by health professionals and the elderly themselves. Mr. Secretary of State, could you present us with the Government's roadmap to better prevent, identify and treat mental health disorders among our seniors?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u32	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u33	You're pointing out the right questions, MP. Persons over the age of 60 make up a quarter of the population; They will represent a third of them in 2040. While most of them are fortunately in good mental health, many are exposed – as you said – to the risk of developing mental, neurological or substance abuse problems. The crisis has exacerbated some of the trends that have already been noted. More than 20% of adults 60 years of age and older now suffer from a mental or neurological health disorder, the most common expression of which is depression, and one third of suicides in our country concern those over 65 years of age. I was just saying: the crisis has increased the mental suffering of seniors. Many actions had therefore been launched by the Government, some of which were specific to senior citizens. They are structured around three axes. The first is to better inform seniors about how to maintain their mental health. In particular, the digital information portal of the Caisse nationale de solidarité pour l'autonomy (CNSA) has been enriched to this end. The second focus – which you mentioned – is the identification of fragility and the prevention of isolation. In particular, it is based on the three-year experiment of a programme, known as ICOPE, to prevent the loss of autonomy, focusing on the multidimensional screening of functional decline related to age. The aim of this approach is to develop preventive practices within the elderly population, by assessing six functional capacities prior to addiction, which are essential determinants of loss of autonomy. Experimentation is part of the overall strategy to prevent loss of autonomy 2020-2022, Healthy aging. I will also mention the institution, from 2023 onwards, of a new training module on mental health first aid focusing on the elderly. Finally, the third axis aims to adapt the national suicide prevention strategy to the elderly through a dedicated plan. This includes the VigilanS system, as well as the Sentinel module training of professionals working with elderly people at home and in institutions, as part of an updated training course on suicide prevention devoted more specifically to the elderly and the loss of autonomy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u34	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u35	According to the latest report by Santé publique France, since the beginning of the year 2021 there has been an increase in emergency calls for gestures, suicidal ideas and mood disorders among children between the ages of 11 and 17, as well as among young people between the ages of 18 and 24. For its part, UNICEF has conducted a survey of 25,000 young people in France, the result of which is more than alarming: one in ten young people, between the ages of 13 and 18, have already tried to commit suicide – one in ten young people! Psychic suffering is a background blade that overwhelms the French. Despite the obvious increase in this suffering, the means do not follow. The situation was alarming, the number of requests for appointments in psychology was exploding, waiting lists continued to grow, but the Government denied the autonomy of psychologists by refusing to give direct access to their consultations, without medical prescription or prior assessment. Why, Mr. Secretary of State? I had the opportunity to meet psychologists and psychiatrists in my constituency of the Vosges, who told me of their incomprehension on this subject. The situation is also worsening for health professionals, who deplore the impoverishment of psychology and psychiatry. As you said, this has been going on for forty years. It is necessary to upgrade and harmonize the salary scales of psychologists working on different sides of the public service and to devote them the means necessary to enable them to accompany their patients in a decent and personalized way. My question is therefore simple, Mr. Secretary of State: what means do you intend to implement, and within what time--it is important--to finally allow every child, adolescent and adult who feels the need to be adequately cared for?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u36	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u37	I cannot let you say, honourable Member, that the means do not follow. I think I demonstrated in my opening speech that they were at the meeting, both qualitatively and quantitatively. We are particularly concerned about the mental health of adolescents and children. Psychiatric emergency services began to warn us early in September 2021 about the increase in the number of visits to emergencies of increasingly young patients, particularly for suicide attempts. Several mechanisms have been designed by the Government to address this problem in an emergency. As early as October 2021 the national suicide prevention number was established, 3114: professionals respond to calls from people of all ages, but in particular adolescents. There are also devices specifically dedicated to young people, in particular the Nightline listening service that we visited, with Olivier Véran, in the heart of the health crisis, and which gave rise to communication campaigns on social networks. In addition, since last year, the PsyEnfantAdo emergency device, which we extend this quarter to all French people over 3 years old: it is the MonPsySanté device. I would also point out that the students have benefited from more than 41000 sessions thanks to the Student Physician Health, plus 74,000 sessions delivered by the university health services. We therefore continue to mobilize the necessary resources for young people and adolescents. I will have the opportunity to review the specific measures we are taking for them.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u38	Mrs Danièle Obono has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u39	At the Charles Perrens Hospital in Bordeaux, requests for care by the child psychiatry unit have increased by 40% since the beginning of the health crisis; That's what we learned in the papers a few days ago. Across the country, suicide rates are increasing among young people; the mental and mental health of French and French people is getting worse. But at the same time, psychiatry institutions continue to die slowly. In the absence of psychiatrists and interns, the psychiatric hospital in Bailleul lost seventy beds last year. Dr Christian Müller, chairman of the Medical Commission of Establishment (CME), affirms this: what is happening in Bailleul is emblematic of the situation of psychiatry at the national level. Last Thursday, twelve trade unions in the psychiatry sector warned about the massive and unprecedented departures of doctors, and now non-medical caregivers, who forced psychiatric institutions to close beds or even entire units. Your policy, Mr Secretary of State, aggravates this state of affairs, while also aggravating the state of our democracy. Public freedoms are increasingly violated: confinement of all patients in Toulouse, confinement of all patients in the covid unit in Moisselles, increasingly overwhelming reports of the Comptroller General of places of deprivation of liberty... In January 2022, the reform of the financing of psychiatry came into effect. Mixed funding provides in part for activity pricing, which dehumanizes the caregiver-patient relationship. To remedy the lack of resources, all the ministry's work in recent years has been aimed at transforming public psychiatry at low cost into a diagnostic and screening centre, leaving more lucrative care to the private sector. As a result, long-term accompaniment disappears, as shown by the management of autism, the first victim of this policy. The inter-union asked in a statement: "What would be thought of a cancer policy that would focus on prevention and at the same time abandon patients and oncology services to their fate? Mr. Secretary of State, what do you have to answer to these professionals?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u40	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u41	It turns out that I went to Charles Perrens Hospital last week on a subject other than the one we are dealing with: the Government's installation of the care path for children who are victims of sexual violence. [[Mrs. Danièle Obono protested]] Since my appointment three years ago, I have not made a single move without mention of the shortage of professionals and the issue of the attractiveness of trades, particularly in child psychiatry. Health professionals, presidents of departmental councils, heads of social welfare for children: I am systematically told of the absence of child psychiatrists in their territory and of waiting times in medical and psychological centres – a subject dear to Elsa Faucillon. It is a reality: there are only 800 child psychiatrists left in our country. This is why, as soon as Agnès Buzyn published the roadmap in 2018, we made emergency arrangements – hence the calls for projects that I mentioned in my opening remarks: formation of mobile teams, mobilization of clinician psychologists. We have also planned structural measures, because nothing less than rebuilding a sector. You know very well, Mrs Obono, that the lack of professionals is not just a question of means and cannot be solved in a snap of fingers. Since 2019, we have created ten posts of assistant head of clinic in child psychiatristry every year; So far, thirty-two have been created. As announced by the President of the Republic at the closing of the foundations of psychiatry and mental health, the Diploma of Special Studies (DES) is evolving and will now be awarded after five years of study. With regard to the CMPs, 160 posts had already been announced at the Ségur de la santé, in addition to the 800 additional positions of clinician psychologists announced at the end of the session. It is a matter of reducing waiting times, which reach a year to a year and a half! Among these new posts, 400 will concern the CMP-IJ – infanto-juvenile medical-psychological centres. So we are acting both in an emergency – because there is an emergency, you are right – but also in a structural way. It will take a few years, it is true, but the Government has decided to tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u42	You had to think about it five years ago!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u43	We started in 2018!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u44	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u45	On Saturday, in Montreuil, there was a large convergence meeting of psychologists in struggle, who strongly criticized the measures taken by the Government. For them, they are a form of break-up of their profession because they aim to wipe out the long waiting lists of patients and ultimately to organize a system of ubiquitous and protocolized mental care. That is what we are seeing. I would like to ask you in particular, Mr Secretary of State, about what is happening in the youth field. Indeed, the crisis continues to affect our young people. Between periods of confinement, courses in distanciel, economic and social difficulties, there is an urgent need to act so that they can imagine and build their future with all the energy of their lives. All the reports point out how difficult the situation is – I would like to mention in particular that of my colleague Marie-George Buffet. It has now been nearly two years since paediatric hospitalizations of adolescents in moral and psychological distress continued to increase. The majority of these hospitalizations are short-lived and lead to a rapid return to the home, but discharges from the hospital are complicated for young people who need specialized support. Some of them are forced to remain hospitalized in pediatrics. A nurse told me a few days ago at Martigues Hospital: "The teenagers sometimes stay three months in our service, for lack of reception in a suitable structure, and they are alone; It's inhuman for teenagers." They therefore need appropriate structures, with trained professionals, psychologists, psychiatrists and medical and social staff. In the face of the spread of ill-being, new reception facilities adapted to the new needs of adolescents need to be created quickly. What are you going to do about it, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u46	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u47	First of all, the Member of Parliament, the MonPsySanté device, which we intend to persevere and generalize, is a complementary device that will allow people who suffer from mild to moderate mental disorders to access...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u48	A competing device!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u49	No, it will not compete with the provision of care: it will allow it to be extended to people who do not have access to it today, on medical prescription, a general practitioner making sure that this is going the right way. It is therefore in addition to the existing supply which, moreover, you are right, suffers from a deficit which has become structural over the years and which needs to be addressed. At the risk of not satisfying you, I would like to welcome the cooperation between the paediatric and child-psychiatric services. Although there has been some compulsion to bring them together, it has also led to new collaborations. As I said to Mrs Obono, we also need to strengthen the attractiveness of child psychiatry, to rebuild a line of care and an offer of care which, once again, is not limited to hospitalization or to the question of the number of beds. At the perinatal psychiatry service of the Strasbourg hospital, for example, which I visited a few days ago, the offer of care is ensured both in prevention, on an outpatient basis, by mobile teams, in day hospitalisation and in full hospitalisation. It is this path of care that we are working on, restructuring and evolving in certain territories, where the approach is still very focused on hospitalization. We must also allow the emergence of new professionals, our country suffering from a structural shortage of child psychiatrists. It is a reality that I do not dispute; However, we have made every effort to remedy this, both in terms of training and in terms of job creation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u50	Mrs Maud Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u51	As we know, the health crisis and successive confinements have had an impact on mental health, such as addictions, alcohol or tobacco, and have also increased anxiety and depressive disorders. For example, almost a quarter of smokers report increased smoking during the first confinement. While prevention policies have been strengthened in this regard, the emergence of new dependencies must alert us to the need to protect especially the younger populations. One can mention the resurgence of the use of synthetic drugs in the context of the sexual practice called chemsex, for chemical sex. Considered a festive practice designed to overcome isolation and allow for fun by forgetting the reality, the phenomenon finds its source in part on the internet via dating applications and the possibility to obtain illicit products such as GBL (gamma-butyrolactone), 3 MMC (3-methylmethcathinone) or mephedrone. Other products can be added, such as crystal meth or cocaine. Promoting multiplication of partners, risky practices, loss of social ties, withdrawal from one another, chemsex can become the object of problematic addiction. Health professionals working in the field of addiction prevention find that the phenomenon, originally marginal, is growing. The consequences are dramatic: addictologists estimate that almost a third of chemsex users develop complications: sexual, psychiatric, but also physical disorders, including infectious ones. In the face of this phenomenon which is still unknown but which is growing since confinement and in the face of the risks it poses to health, what measures can be envisaged to counter this new addiction whose consequences can be serious?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u52	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u53	I thank you, honourable Member, for raising the awareness of national representation and, beyond it, of opinion, of the emergence of practices such as chemsex, i.e. the use of psychoactive substances that are mostly illicit in a sexual context. In the face of this emerging phenomenon, the Government has not remained inactive, although the first challenge is to better understand it. The APACHES survey – Expectations and paths related to Chemsex – conducted in 2019 by the French Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictive Trends (OFDT) provided us with initial information, but the extent of the phenomenon and its dissemination among the population are still not well known in reality. It is mainly thanks to the associations, whose work is to be welcomed, that we have field data. These indicate that the number of users actually increased during the crisis. It is therefore necessary to raise awareness and equip health professionals to enable them to identify, prevent and address these issues. The new roadmap of the National Sexual Health Strategy for the years 2021 to 2024, published on December 1, 2021, focuses on providing very concrete first elements of a response. One of these actions is aimed at improving the identification and management of chemsexers. This complex phenomenon requires a multidisciplinary response based on peer support, based on combined prevention, to reduce both sexual and psychoactive risks. These responses can be fed into the experiments carried out in particular in the context of the calls for projects of the Fund to combat addictions. Thus the ARPA project – to accompany in an improved multidisciplinary network –, supported by the associations AIDES and Federation Addiction, aims to experiment and improve at the territorial level the multidisciplinary offer of sexual prevention and risk reduction for chemsexers and to develop self-support and treatment of addictions. Finally, you should know that Professor Amine Benyamina has been given a mission in order to qualify and quantify the phenomenon and to identify as best as possible the target audiences, the products used and the potential interactions with the medicines. In conjunction with the knowledge and field actions developed in recent years, this study will eventually propose a strategy for prevention and risk reduction tailored specifically to these chemical sex practices.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u54	Mr Sylvain Templier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u55	I would like to associate my colleague Eric Poulliat, Member of Parliament for Gironde, with this question. This has been recalled by previous speakers: the health crisis and the necessary braking measures have had a major impact on the mental health of the French. Having said that, we know that the problem was pre-pandemic. Every year, one in five Frenchmen suffer from a mental disorder and 3 million of our compatriots suffer from severe disorders. Unfortunately, the crisis has aggravated some already fragile situations. In Haute-Marne, for example, there is an increased need for psychologists to work with young people accompanied by local missions or social residences. The need for child psychiatry is acute and, in the absence of access to such care, there are violent passages, separations and placements of children. These observations are confirmed on the ground by social workers, as well as by law enforcement officials. If all territories are affected, each has its own peculiarities. According to IMS Health, antidepressants are more consumed in rural areas. Other studies show an overrepresentation of schizophrenic disorders in urban areas. Suicide rates are higher in the North and East. Some territories, such as the Meuse, the Aube, the Ain or the Haute-Marne, are clearly underfunded in terms of psychic care. Mechanisms have been put in place since the first confinement, such as the weekly mental health monitoring bulletin. By 2018, the Government had launched the National Health Strategy, which has enabled several advances, such as the launch of territorial mental health projects or local health contracts which, on my proposal, will systematically include a component dedicated to mental health. However, places in social children's homes (MECS) are counted and professionals are sometimes rare in these institutions. I would like to know how the Government intends to reduce territorial disparities in access to psychological care. What means are dedicated to it? What evaluation mechanism can be put in place?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u56	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u57	As I said, honourable Member, we did not wait for the crisis to mobilize on the issue of access to mental health care, which pre-dates the health crisis. The needs are important, the provision of care in psychiatry weakened, impoverished, marked by the territorial inequalities that you mentioned. The waiting period is six months before access to a CMP and can even reach 12 months. Professionals are lacking: between 2012 and 2015, the number of child psychiatrists decreased by 7% and the number of child psychiatrists by 14%. Today we have about 800 child psychiatrists for the entire territory. We took the subject with arms-the-body, establishing as early as 2018 a road map in mental health and organizing mental health foundations, which were held on 27 and 28 September and were closed by the President of the Republic. As part of the Secur de la santé, we announced the creation of 160 positions of clinical psychologists for the CMPs and the creation of 800 additional posts at the Mental Health Foundations, including 400 posts for the Infanto-Juvenile Psychiatry CMPs. You also refer to territorial mental health projects. You may have, as a Member of Parliament, participated in the launch of such a project in your territory, as was my case: as a Member of Parliament, I, together with Member of Parliament Laurianne Rossi here, contributed to the launch of such a project in the Hauts-de-Seine. It brings together all the actors around the table in order to coordinate and improve access to psychological care in a given territory. It is also through these tools, closer to the needs, the specificities and the specificities of the territory and the offer of existing care, by allowing a link between the various actors, that we will be able to bring each territory together towards better care and better access for all our citizens to this offer of care.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u58	Mr David Lorion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u59	The Covid pandemic has shed a raw light on the failures of our mental health system. Health insecurity, social isolation during periods of confinement, the stress of the disease and ruptures in the course of care, as well as anxiety overmediatization, have led to an increase in decompensation in chronic patients and an acceleration of primary hospitalizations, particularly among young people, due to anorexia, addictions, suicide attempts, etc. In my island department of La Réunion, which has 865,000 inhabitants, the population of Marseilles, mental health remains an abandoned sector, with annual allocations 30% lower than the national average, so far below the needs. I had already mentioned this in September 2019 in a parliamentary report on the budget of the CHU (university hospital centre). The increase in hospitalizations and the weakness of the budget are the root of a critical situation. In the public sector, the provision of mental health care includes – for 865000 inhabitants – only 138 beds divided between two public actors: the public mental health institution of La Réunion – EPSMR – on the one hand, with 75 hospital beds for the north and west of the island, and the Southern CHU on the other hand, with only 63 beds for two thirds of the population of La Réunion. We therefore suffer from a chronic lack of hospital beds for adults. But the most scandalous is undoubtedly the weakness of the number of hospital beds for children and adolescents: there are, to date, only 14 public hospital beds, all located in the Vanille unit, in Saint Paul, which is obviously very insufficient. As for CHU Sud, there are no hospital beds for children and adolescents in decompensation. They are therefore accommodated in the Oasis pediatric unit, at the cost of a real disruption to the functioning of this service, or, worse, in closed units where they are alongside adults. In December, the Head of Service of CHU Sud, along with all his colleagues, defended the creation of a child psychiatrist's unit. This very serious project, which I supported, unfortunately did not attract the attention of our ARS. How is it that the Commission did not reply on this subject? I hope that this project will be completed quickly, before a tragedy occurs. Can you, Secretary of State, make a firm commitment to this?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u61	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u62	As is well known, the population of La Réunion is characterized by a very large proportion of young people under the age of 17. Almost one third of them are adolescents aged 12 to 17, or 10 per cent of the total population. A significant part of the population faces problems of poverty, unemployment, addiction and overoccupation of housing. The provision of infant and child psychiatric care in Réunion has indeed remained for a long time below the national average. The provision of full hospital care until this year was ensured only by the ten regional beds of the Réunion public mental health institution, a density of four beds per 100,000 inhabitants under the age of 17, when the national average is 15. Strengthening the provision of psychiatry care for children and adolescents is therefore a priority of the Government, which is included in the National Mental Health Roadmap for the period 2018-2022. In this context, the Ministry of Solidarity and Health has since 2019 supported the dynamics of all stakeholders of the Reunion PTSM and the various actions implemented by the Regional Health Agency in order to make up for the provision of child psychiatric care in this territory. Thus, within the framework of the funds dedicated to strengthening psychiatry, delegates to the RHAs since 2019, the Regional Health Agency of La Réunion has devoted almost 2 million euros to strengthening the CMPs for children and adolescents on the island. Workshops specifically for adolescents are being deployed. In 2019, we also extended the full-time adolescent hospital unit from ten to fourteen beds – as you mentioned – with funding of €470,000 as part of a national project. This extension was especially designed to accommodate teenagers aged 16 to 18. The operation of the extended unit will be fully operational as of this month of February. Finally, two new hospital units for the 12-18 year-olds will open in 2022 in La Réunion. In addition to these significant efforts, support is provided for mobile team projects in child psychiatry. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Réunion model of an outpatient system, which bears witness to real expertise. Let us also welcome this model for its articulation between the provision of mental health and the medico-social, particularly developed on the island. Having no knowledge of the project of the Southern CHU that you are referring to, I will not make any commitment to it; However, I undertake to study the case and to exchange with you on the possibility of completing it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u63	Mrs Isabelle Valentin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u64	The covid-19 epidemic has changed our existence: anxiety and depression, the use of antidepressants, or hospitalizations for suicide attempts are all indicators that alert us. Numerous population studies converge to say that the mental health of the French has deteriorated sharply since the beginning of the pandemic. In particular, requests for consultations in child psychiatry have increased. But the world of child psychiatry warns us about a lack of resources, child psychiatrists and psychologists. Rural departments are doubly penalized: they do not have a medical faculty, nor do they receive interns in psychiatry. How can these difficulties be addressed? Can the faculties be asked to distribute the interns throughout the territory? Psychiatry is the great forgotten of public health policies over the past ten years. It is unable to cope with the influx of requests in recent months, and is experiencing considerable delays. The Segur of Health has created profound inequities, affecting the attractiveness of the medical-social sector and exhausting staff. How is autism handled in the fields of psychology and psychiatry? Where to find healthcare professionals for these facilities? From a financial point of view, psychiatric institutions are in the red: they are still waiting for the regulations due by the State for the year 2021. In my constituency, I note that the leadership and health-care teams are poor and tired of two years of pandemic; Above all, they have no visibility of the future of their structure. That is why I call on the Government to take up this issue with its own hands, which it urgently needs to make a national priority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u65	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u66	You're asking a lot of questions, MP. I will begin by responding to your conclusion: the Government has not waited for the crisis to address the issue. Since 2018, after thirty years of incuracy, he has finally made the mental health of our fellow citizens and the provision of psychiatric care a national priority and a social issue – as I mentioned in my opening remarks. Beyond the Government, the issue concerns all of us collectively. The crisis has brought it to light, which is already a positive point. You're asking me about territorial inequalities and lack of resources. The latter is obvious: I mentioned it with regard to child psychiatry, and I have detailed the measures we are taking to address it, on the one hand, in order to alleviate the urgency and to meet immediate needs, through calls for regional or territorial projects, on the other hand in a structural way – namely the reform of the DES, the opening of ten positions of assistant chief clinician per year since 2019, and the titularization of nine teachers in child psychiatry. The challenge now is to ensure the proper distribution of these additional resources within the territory, according to needs. The solution does not lie in the internals: their primary function is to form themselves, not to solve problems of territorial meshing. However, needs are expressed everywhere. Once again, I did not make a single move, whether in rural or urban areas, in the North or in the South, without highlighting the lack of resources. We must strive to allocate the additional numbers of child psychiatry appropriately within the MPCs throughout the country, bearing in mind that the needs are important everywhere.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u67	Mrs Laurianne Rossi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u68	There are songs that say much more about anxiety and the desire to end it, than cold statistics. If the release of the last title of Stromae, "Hell" has so marked the minds, it is that the singer has broken a taboo about mental health, and that the desire to end it and the suicidal thoughts expressed in this song are, unfortunately, very widely shared, especially by young people and students. For the past two years, the health crisis has had serious consequences for the mental health of French people: fear of illness, isolation, stress, social phobia, difficulty in seeing prospects, eco-anxiety... The studies published by Santé publique France must more than ever alert us and mobilize us: 10% of French people would have had suicidal thoughts in the past year, five points more than normal, and they are 18% to show signs of a depressive state, eight points more than normal. The first confinement would have resulted in a doubling of depressive syndromes among 15-24-year-olds, and more than 20% of them would have such disorders. Behind these figures are painful realities – those of so many students who have fallen into the dark of their tiny studio, away from their family and friends, deprived of youthful encounters, deprived of projects, jobs and sometimes resources. I am thinking in particular of those whom we met in my constituency during the confinement, in Malakoff, with the Secretary of State for Engagement and Youth, Sarah El Haïry. The Government and the majority have measured the urgency of the situation, and have improved prevention and access to care – this has been stressed. Among the many schemes deployed are the national suicide prevention number 3114, the student shrink check – which has since been expanded to include children – and the reimbursement by the health insurance of eight sessions at a psychologist. There is no doubt that the mental health roadmap will go even further. Mr Secretary of State, are there any statistics on the number of young people who have benefited from these measures and on their distribution in the territory? How can these mechanisms be made more widely known and strengthened, so as to respond urgently and effectively to the mental health problems of young people? I would also like more information on the Nightline service that you mentioned, which contributes to a better management of these disorders among young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u69	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u70	From the beginning of September to October 2020, we were alerted, in particular by child psychiatrists, about the consequences of the health crisis for children and young people. This was the subject of a first meeting, in the presence of Frank Bellivier, Ministerial Delegate for Mental Health and Psychiatry. At the time, the situation was not homogeneous on the territory. If alerts came, in particular, from the Robert Debré hospital – which suggests that the deterioration of children's mental health had a social component – we did not perceive such signals everywhere, in Nantes or Rennes for example, although mood and eating disorders have progressed slightly. The President of the Republic announced first steps at a meeting with representatives of all health professionals concerned in January 2021. At an early stage, we made arrangements for all age groups. For the youngest, we have ensured that the Board of Directors of the National Fund of Family Allowances (CNAF) votes in November 2020 to provide 500,000 inclusive masks to professionals of more than 20,000 crèches, so that the health crisis does not undermine the development and acquisition of children's language. In January 2021, the President of the Republic announced the creation of an emergency psychological package for children; More than 7,000 sessions were held in this context. We also launched the Student Health Program: it allowed students to benefit from 53,500 sessions, in addition to the 74,000 sessions delivered by the university health services. These are the emergency devices that we deployed during the health crisis and confinements. They were our experiments. Some will be perpetuated in the context of MonPsySanté – I am thinking in particular of psychologists' consultations. Finally, I remain at your disposal to provide you with additional information on the Nightline service, which needs to be promoted to young people.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u71	Mr. Matthieu Orphelin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u72	Like an alarm cry, a cry from the heart, hundreds of child psychiatrists, gathered in the Association of Child-Child Psychiatrists (API), published a petition a little over a month ago, signed by 25,000 people and more than twenty professional organizations. You know the situation: it is estimated that nearly 2 million young people are deprived of quality psychiatric care. In many territories, including Angers, the lead time for access to CMPs is up to 18 months. We must act: hear the alarm cry of the child-psychiatry sector, which wants to respond to the urgency of young people, but does not have the means to do so. Of course, the announcements following the foundations of mental health and psychiatry go in the right direction, but they are still insufficient: you mentioned the creation of 400 additional posts in the CMPs, but they will not only concern child psychiatrists. We must therefore go much further. Psychiatrists have very concrete proposals on training, awareness raising, funding and reducing territorial inequalities. Consider that some departments do not have a single child psychiatrist, and that it is necessary to travel 60 or 10 kilometres to consult one! Mr Secretary of State, do you recognize yourself in the appeal of these child psychiatrists who demand a framework law, additional resources and a re-foundation of child psychiatry in France? Would you agree to receive, in the next few days, a delegation from the IPY child psychiatrists to present their proposals to you? Some topics deserve to go beyond political divides; The mental health of children is one of them. Would you agree to join in a trans-party work in this area? We have started drafting a framework law with a few MPs, and we would be happy to work with you on it for the next quinquennium, regardless of the colour of the next majority.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u73	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u74	I have some opinion – or some desire – about the next majority, hoping that you will be included in it, honourable Member! I don't know if we need a framework law; I can say, however, that we did not wait for the pandemic to grasp the problem of the provision of care in psychiatry, especially in child psychiatry: we did so as soon as the mental health and psychiatry roadmap developed by Agnès Buzyn at the 2018 mitan of the year was implemented. For example, we have launched various emergency measures: €20 million has been allocated to finance calls for projects in the territories to strengthen the psychiatry of children and adolescents, and €10 million has been allocated to the organizational innovation fund in psychiatry. These amounts have been extended over three years and allow immediate responses: creation of mobile teams, day-care places, etc. More structural responses have been added, such as the opening of ten clinical assistant positions each year in child psychiatry, with the aim of rebuilding the sector. However, it will take five, six or seven years before there are more child psychiatrists, the time they are formed – on the understanding that we have strengthened their training, at the end of the foundations of health and psychiatry, to make the sector more attractive. As I have indicated, we are also creating positions of clinical psychologists in the CMPs: 160 positions were announced as early as the Ségur de la santé, followed by 800 additional positions, including 400 in the CMP-IJ, as we announced on the basis of mental health and psychiatry. We therefore operate all the levers at our disposal. Finally, the MonPsySanté device will respond to mild to moderate psychic needs; Nearly 1800 professionals have already indicated their intention to take part.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u75	Do you agree to receive the delegation?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u76	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u77	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u78	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u79	The next item is the debate on the report of the Committee on Social Affairs on the evaluation of the law of 5 September 2018 on the freedom to choose one's professional future. The Conference of Presidents decided to hold this debate in two parts. As a first step, we will hear speakers from the groups and then from the Government. We will then proceed to a sequence of questions and answers. Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u80	First of all, I would like to thank the chairman of my group, Christophe Castaner, for accepting my proposal to put on the agenda of this session the conclusions of the information report evaluating the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose his professional future, known as Avenir pro. I would like to stress the involvement of the six rapporteurs responsible for this evaluation and, of course, to welcome the quality of their work. To those who would wonder why it was so important to highlight this assessment, I would reply that it is because it concerns one of the most emblematic laws of this legislature and the major scope of which has allowed for much needed changes. Let's go back to history in the beginning. This law is, first of all, the answer to a finding and a diagnosis: the finding of persistent mass unemployment while thousands of jobs, which are said to be in tension, were still and still not provided by investment in skills far below needs and which, paradoxically, did not target the most fragile audiences. Because it deals primarily with the future, this law echoes an alarming diagnosis: a youth often misguided and ill-accompanied in his choices of paths difficult to integrate into employment. The Government's response, supported by its parliamentary majority, was to wager the rise in the skills of each individual, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable and the least qualified. This is the concrete translation of a proactive and ambitious employment policy, which is based on unprecedented means: the €15 billion Skills Investment Plan, known as PIC. Today, as this evaluation report shows, the time has come to take stock: the results are there, as evidenced in particular by the unemployment figures at their lowest level since the economic crisis of 2008. For example, in my region Burgundy-Franche-Comté, the number of jobseekers who received training increased by 30% thanks to the ICP. Yes, the law "Avenir pro" allowed several revolutions, starting with vocational training because it greatly facilitated access to training with the aim of enabling everyone to become an actor on their own path. The creation of the personal training account – the CPF – as an innovative tool is the main symbol of this; It has facilitated access for people previously underrepresented in training courses. Second and not least revolution: learning. Again, the figures speak for themselves: 650,000 apprenticeship contracts were recorded by the Ministry of Labour last December. It's new! As a former teacher in a CFA, a training centre for apprentices, I can only rejoice in this excellent result. Learning is indeed a way of excellence and above all a springboard to employment for thousands of young people. I like to say that there can be no social integration without professional integration! I would like to recall here that this dynamic has been preserved despite the health crisis, in particular through the continued commitment of companies supported by the Government's exceptional assistance. I do not forget the many measures to promote the sustainable employment of those furthest from the labour market. In particular, it is the purpose of the professional development council that the law has strengthened in order to best support job seekers in the development of their professional project and in their search for employment. Finally, I would like to recall the major advances allowed by this law in favour of professional equality between women and men, but also in favour of the inclusion in employment of persons with disabilities. Of course, this evaluation must push us to go even further: I am thinking of the issues related to the quality of training, the strengthening of guidance systems and the development of career paths for so-called future jobs in the digital sector, in the industry or in the medico-social sector, for which recruitment needs will intensify in the coming years. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I would like to conclude on a simple idea: the law "Future pro" is above all the desire to put the value of work back at the heart of our society project by allowing everyone to be master of their journey and thus become the main character of their own history. The evaluation shows that the initial challenge is largely met. It is now a matter of preserving these beautiful achievements over the long term in order to restore confidence to the French in their professional future and that of their children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u81	Mr Gérard Cherpion has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u82	June 2011, March 2014, September 2018... Since these dates, France has had a legislative arsenal to strengthen learning, and more generally alternance, as ways of excellence in terms of competence and qualification. It must be noted that in a few years there has been a considerable increase in the number of apprenticeships, from 525,000 in 2020 to 660,000 apprentices in 2021, and that the number of CFAs has doubled since the reform came into force, including the creation of 60 CFAs of enterprises. However, this satisfactory assessment – although at the expense of professionalisation contracts – in quantitative terms has a more nuanced qualitative aspect. Thus, the increase is significant for post-bac apprentices, but there is a near-stagnation for below-low levels and in particular for certificates of professional fitness (CAP). Particular attention must therefore be paid to this trend, since the development of learning is essential to enable these audiences to enter the labour market quickly and to open up career opportunities by transmitting the know-how of professionals, as in craft trades. In this respect, it should be recalled that certain sectors are struggling to recruit, whether in hotels, restaurants, industry, mechanics, commerce or in the construction industry, where there are busy trades. I would point out that, in my report for an opinion on the 2021 finance bill (PLF), I had stressed the importance of exceptional aid, and that is why, in order to avoid a fall in the number of apprentices, it is necessary to envisage a gradual exit from this scheme and stable multi-year funding for contract costs. While the creation of a single operator, France competences, has brought together all the actors, its governance is contested, in particular by the social partners, due to an unbalanced quadripartiteism. However, I would like to highlight the work of France's skills teams despite the fact that they are not sizeable for the tasks assigned to them. Moreover, its financial situation remains extremely worrying: its deficit amounts to almost €7 billion accumulated in two years. This report therefore proposes to better modulate the funding of learning through a multi-annual vision and according to the levels of training. It is also legitimate to question the financing of apprenticeship in higher education and the distribution of burdens between the State and enterprises. With regard to continuing training, the CPF has enabled employees to have personal management of their training throughout their working lives. Nevertheless, there are abuses: according to the Caisse des dépôts, 14300 frauds at the CPF have been recorded since 2019 for an injury of around 16 million euros. This scam must be subject to strong and immediate repression because the financial, moral and professional damage to employees is intolerable; It is not acceptable to mention a parliamentary timetable that is forced not to act, even though our legal arsenal already makes it possible to do so! Furthermore, according to the report, it is necessary to have a new shift in the funds of the skills development plan towards SMEs. In this context, co-investment is a solution allowing for an abundance of CPF for companies with 50 to 299 employees in order to compensate for the lack of pooled funds. It is proposed that companies with fewer than 50 employees should take up the proposal of the National Inter-Professional Agreement (ANI) of October 2021, which provides that assistance for the development of skills and qualifications should be strengthened and reaffirmed as a priority of the reform. As for the validation of experience – the EVA – it is neither sufficiently well known nor sufficiently developed, which is due in particular to a procedure which remains too complex. I regret that the law of 5 September 2018 has somewhat abandoned this scheme while it is a real opportunity to recognise the skills acquired by employees and job seekers, and thus to reactivate the social staircase. You will understand, Madam Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration, ladies and gentlemen, that I conclude that the results are on the table in quantitative terms, but that many points still need to be made in qualitative terms. It will therefore be necessary, in the next legislature, to change the law. The sustainability of the development of alternance and vocational training necessarily requires an ever more personalised support, within a balanced financial framework, of the assets.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u83	Mrs Michèle de Vaucouleurs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u84	Today we meet to evoke a major legislative work of the quinquennium: the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. More than three years after its promulgation, we have a certain setback on the implementation of the measures contained in this text, in particular thanks to the report on the evaluation of the law submitted to the Committee on Social Affairs. First of all, I would like to point out that in the area of vocational training, an in-depth reform of the personal training account has been carried out in order to give all workers the opportunity to train and evolve in their careers. Now abounded in euros and easily mobilised, the renovated CPF facilitates everyone's access to training. According to the evaluation report, 100,000 workers used their personal accounts to train in 2020, 73% more than in 2019, and the share of women among CPF users also increased, from 46% in 2019 to almost 50% in 2020 – a level closer to their share in the labour force. This law has also made it possible to make a real reshaping of learning possible. The extension of this scheme to the age of 26-29, the aid of EUR 500 for driving licences and the upgrading of the remuneration of apprentices have thus contributed to the development of this method of training, which is now overwhelmingly popular. The effects of the reform are therefore at stake: nearly 700000 apprenticeship contracts were signed in 2021, twice as many as in 2017. These are young people who we are accompanying towards vocational training and the attainment of the skills we are looking for in the labour market. We have also changed the rules on unemployment insurance and job search to promote return to employment and occupational mobility. These developments have taken the form of new rights for resigning employees who have a plan to convert or set up a company. The report shows that this provision has had a relative success – 14400 rights openings between November 2019 and November 2021 – and it is bound to grow with the end of the health crisis. Similarly, the right to an allowance of 800 euros per month for six months was granted to self-employed workers in difficulty due to judicial liquidation, reorganization or in the context of a breach with the payer. Although little use has been made of this system since its inception – the exceptional aids put in place during the health crisis have been more so – it is intended to be enriched by the bill in favour of independent professional activity that we should adopt definitively in a few weeks. Nor do I forget the progress made by this text in the area of inclusive employment. To combat gender inequalities, the Act introduced an index of professional equality between women and men. Companies with more than 50 employees who do not implement corrective measures to redress wage inequalities will be subject to sanctions. These new provisions have accelerated business awareness and the introduction of these measures. Since 2019, we have already seen an increase in the scores obtained, the average being 85 out of 100 in 2021, compared to 84 in the previous year. With regard to sexual and gender-based violence, the reference provided by law remains unclear. On the other hand, information and communication through signage has been strengthened. To promote the employment of persons with disabilities, we reaffirmed a legal employment obligation rate of 6%, which can be revised upwards. Still in a logic of inclusion, we have had the ambition to double the number of jobs in adapted companies, which are gateways to traditional companies. Simplification of the reporting arrangements for disabled workers and the reform of approved agreements should in future contribute to the achievement of the objectives set, as well as the reduction or deletion of the list of jobs requiring special skills requirements (ECAP). Finally, with regard to seconded work, we have adapted the administrative requirements of the State, by reducing obligations in situations which are less likely to lead to fraud, and by strengthening sanctions in cases where the hard core of employees' rights is not respected. If it is too early to measure the impact of these provisions, there is already a strengthening of the monitoring of obligations on the part of the originators, which is a positive element. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem and LaREM groups]] Three years after its promulgation, we see how much this very comprehensive law has improved the organization of the professional world, whether it is access to employment, career development or working conditions within the company. Let me therefore once again, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, welcome the adoption of this major five-year law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u85	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u86	At the invitation of La République en marche, we are invited to discuss the evaluation of the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose its professional future. The report of the Committee on Social Affairs contains a wealth of information on its effects on apprenticeship, vocational training and the reform of unemployment insurance. There is no doubt that significant progress has been made in the area of learning. The figures have already been cited: more than 700000 contracts signed in 2021. This success is clearly to be put to the credit of this law, I readily acknowledge it. Nevertheless, the report leaves several outstanding issues. Firstly, in the area of vocational training, prior to the reform, the CPF was credited with 24 hours of training per year. The majority decided to monetize it, i.e. to display an amount in euros. It is now credited with EUR 500 per year or EUR 800 for unskilled employees. With an average hourly cost of training close to 37 euros in 2018, the employee is therefore entitled to only about 13 hours of training per year, almost twice as much as before. This decrease is calling on us. Our second area of concern is France Competencies, the new national governance body for vocational training and learning that you have created. On reading the report, the deficit is expected to reach €3.7 billion in 2022 and the cumulative debt since 2019 amounts to €11.5 billion. I am aware that this financial situation is partly due to the health crisis, which has deprived France of resources. But while the state partially covered these deficits in initial and amending financial laws for 2021, France's powers also had to borrow. The organization borrowed €1.7 billion from a banking institution to meet its cash flow requirements. The financial model of France's powers therefore raises questions and it is on this point, Madam Minister, that I wish to question you. Indeed, we are talking about considerable amounts – several billion euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u87	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u88	I also intend to go back to the reform of unemployment insurance, which for us is a great subject of divergence with the majority. Even though you have given up a series of measures that were included in the campaign commitments of the President of the Republic, several issues remain. First of all – this is an important point – you have given up building this reform with the social partners since, for the first time in forty years, it was decided without them. Then you announced that you would open up unemployment insurance rights to employees who resign. But the figures are stubborn: in two years, this provision has benefited only 14,000 people; You'll agree that it's not much. In addition, only 911 self-employed persons were able to benefit from the flat-rate allowance allocated to them. Compared to the total number of employees – who certainly do not all resign – and of self-employed workers, these figures are very small. Finally, the new rules on compensation will penalise many employees. Minister, I agree with you that we must support and encourage the resumption of work, ensure that work pays more than unemployment and, of course, fill vacancies, but it is important to maintain a balance. Before your reform, it was enough to have worked four of the last twenty-eight months to receive unemployment insurance. From now on, you have to have worked six months. In addition, the new method of calculating unemployment benefit will result in many losers, especially among young people. According to UNEDIC projections, 1.15 million of the 2.8 million people who will be eligible for unemployment between July 2021 and June 2022 will be less well compensated as a result of this reform. [[Michèle Victory and Pierre Dharréville applaud]] Madam Minister, my questions concern the fate of those people who will be less well compensated and the financing of France's competences, which, I insist, involves several billions of euros.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u89	Mr Paul Christophe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u90	First of all, I would like to thank the Republic on the move for putting this debate on the agenda of our final week of scrutiny before the end of the legislature. It allows us to compare our views, in full transparency, on the report of the Social Affairs Committee on the 2018 law on the freedom to choose one's professional future. In doing so, we fully carry out our mission of evaluating the implementation of public policies. And I am pleased that we can discuss the implementation of a major structural reform, three years after its promulgation, as we perceive its benefits today, but also its limitations and imperfections. After the law of 2017 on the strengthening of social dialogue, the law "Professional future" constitutes Act II of the project of transformation of our social model, initiated from the beginning of the quinquennium. It has led to a major reform of the vocational training system, its governance, as well as of apprenticeships and unemployment insurance. This report gives us an initial assessment of its effects, and I welcome the remarkable work carried out by the six rapporteurs, both from the majority and from the opposition. The 2018 law first allowed several decisive advances in vocational training and alternation. Our country has never experienced so many apprentices and we have been breaking record contracts since the reform came into force. While we had about 250,000 apprentices a year five years ago, we have now surpassed the 700000 mark! More than that, I am delighted to see that we have managed to change society's view of learning. It now covers all sectors, and has established itself as a path of excellence, which young people favour for their integration into the labour market. I shall, however, make two small reservations. The first concerns the international mobility of apprentices. Much has been done through the Erasmus + system, but some of the brakes persist and prevent its development. Minister, are you in favour of loosening the constraints related to the length of the secondment, as the rapporteurs call for?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u92	The second reserve is more of a question: recruitment aid was significantly increased during the crisis, up to EUR 8000 for the hiring of an apprentice over the age of 18. This exceptional aid will end on 30 June. Are you considering transitional measures to mitigate the effect of returning to the ordinary legal system? With a view to giving everyone the freedom to build their own journey, the 2018 law also thoroughly reformed the personal training account. It is now powered in euros and an online application makes it easier to manage its rights. The initial objective was to make vocational training more accessible to people who have traditionally been away from it, especially women and the least skilled. It must be noted that democratisation has taken place, and that the French have adapted this new tool since the number of trainings carried out has almost doubled since the launch of the application. The digitisation and monetization of training has, however, encouraged fraud, the extent of which is becoming particularly worrying. I'm thinking of aggressive phone stalls, and account siphoning that feed bogus formations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u94	Minister, what measures are you planning to take to combat these scams that harm the entire system? With regard to the unemployment insurance component, the key measure of the Act was to enable resignations and self-employed persons to benefit from it. Recourse rates are not up to our expectations. How to make this device more attractive? Finally, with regard to the provisions on re-employment, the Action Together Group welcomes the measures to promote the integration of workers with disabilities. We also welcome the creation of the Index of Occupational Equality, whose annual publication is required for companies with more than 50 employees. This is a major step forward in the fight against unjustified pay gaps between women and men. We are not just encouraging companies to do this, as sanctions are provided for failure to meet objectives. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I cannot be exhaustive given the time allocated to me, but I am sure that we will come back to these various points in more detail during the debate. Beyond the few nuances I have just mentioned, the "Professional Future" Act is undoubtedly a fine reform, which enables us to build a society of skills, facilitate professional transitions and protect the most vulnerable. We can collectively be proud of that.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u95	Mr Christophe Naegelen has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u96	The debate before us calls for an assessment of the measures taken under the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, which, in particular, has reformed vocational training, apprenticeship and unemployment insurance. It must be recognized that the learning figures are rather encouraging. However, the number of apprenticeship contracts in the pre-bac sector is stagnating and contributes to an increasing imbalance at the expense of the sub-bac and pre-bac sectors, to the benefit of the post-bac curriculum.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u97	Right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u98	I regret the fact that young people do not switch to apprenticeship at the vocational school. Yet – this is a subject on which we must work – it is essential to bring CFAs and vocational schools closer together, in order to achieve true territorial coherence. Whether it is the CFA or the vocational lycées, these sectors are subject to constant stigmatization. However, the training of excellence provided in this area represents a way forward: leading to occupations that recruit, they are in line with the labour market. While many companies in different sectors – I am thinking in particular of catering – are experiencing a shortage of labour, especially since the health crisis, we need to highlight this road, which is everything but a garage road. Excellent institutions in my constituency, such as the Jean-Baptiste-Siméon-Chardin vocational high school in Gérardmer, or the Camille-Claudel vocational high school in Remiremont, offer comprehensive and quality courses.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u99	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u100	One can only regret, Madam Minister, when two professional high schools in the same department offer identical courses, arbitration often leads to favouring the high school sector which is located in a large city. I know several examples where a branch of the vocational school of Remiremont was sacrificed in favor of exactly the same branch proposed in the prefecture city. This is not an excellent signal to rural areas. The numbers of apprenticeships are very encouraging, but the cost of these aids must also be borne in mind. Of course, it is worth looking at the positive side: when you hire an apprentice today, and it is the head of the company who talks to you, you have the chance that it will cost the company nothing. It's good to see you. Responsibility must also be given to the sustainability of these recruitment figures and to long-term financial sustainability. How can we ensure a gradual exit from the exceptional aid scheme without threatening this dynamic of hiring apprentices? France's financial situation is alarming, and it remains largely in deficit: around €7 billion accumulated over two years for a budgetary abundance of €2.7 billion. This deficit is due to the health crisis, of course, but also to the boom in alternation and an increasing and record use of the CPF. Creating ambitious public policies is one thing, and even a good thing, but applying them without predicting their funding is another. I believe it is essential to provide these measures with coherent financial resources, commensurate with the budgets they call for. I would also like to address the issue of cost-contracting, i.e. the financing of training centres in proportion to the number of apprentices trained. This contract cost, unfortunately, does not cover all of the CFA's expenditure as well as capital expenditure not linked to educational activities, which are nevertheless indispensable for these structures and for their development. Incorporating them would ensure the viability of small CFAs whose survival could be threatened in the years to come. These CFAs are primordial for rural areas. Finally, the Act changed the division and allocation of powers, particularly financial ones, by placing branches and enterprises at the centre of the scheme, sometimes at the expense of the regions. We have had ample opportunity to discuss this in this House. The role of the regions is indisputable since they are most able to identify the needs of their territories. The State and the regions must continue to work with good intelligence to ensure territorial coherence.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u101	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u102	In these times of clandestine presidential campaign for the current tenant of the Elysée, all the means are good to enliven his balance sheet. "Several drop in unemployment"? There are more than 6 million registered persons in the Employment Centre, an unemployment rate above 20% in the Overseas Territories, more than 2.6 million people without long-term employment for 286000 jobs available. And we should congratulate ourselves on that? Is the Government plastronon on business start-ups? These are, over a year, 700000 new microentrepreneurs, especially in delivery, while half of the self-entrepreneurs do not have a positive turnover. This is not our vision of progress. The learning boom? A glamour based on gigantic, publicly funded bounty effects. The ironically called "freedom to choose one's professional future", while reinforcing the balance of power in favour of employers, has profoundly changed the policies of training, unemployment insurance or apprenticeship, not to mention the semblance of the fight against seconded work, which misunderstands the inaction at European level on the issue. This law, a law on the stigmatization of persons deprived of employment, as pointed out by the rapporteur Joël Aviragnet, was introduced even though UNEDIC's studies had anticipated a reduction in the standard of living of the unemployed. The Government has attacked the poorest. And his reasoning is simple: the unemployed are notorious lazy people who prefer the well-known extravagant comfort of unemployment to work. For this reason, it has been hard to prevent them from refusing job offers away from home and less well paid than previous employment. However, the survey conducted by Pôle Emploi in 2017 showed that "inadequate research" accounts for only 5% of radiation. The Government has had much more difficulty in fulfilling its "social promises". The unemployment benefit for self-employed workers is a resounding flop: "A thousand beneficiaries of an allowance of 800 euros for six months make it difficult to achieve universality," the report points out. Similarly, unemployment for resignations is a gas plant with far too limited criteria to have a real impact. With less than 15,000 beneficiaries, failure is still obvious. The reality is that the Government was seeking to save more than $2 billion a year. It has reported the financing of unemployment insurance by replacing contributions with a fraction of the generalised social contribution (CSG). It has killed the logic of assurance by replacing it with a mechanism of solidarity and by putting the social partners on the sidelines. The Government wants to make unemployed people recipients of assistance rather than insured persons. The results of the law are similar in terms of vocational training and apprenticeship: the end of joint management, the delegation of apprenticeships to the private sector paid for largely by the State, massive frauds on apprenticeships and training bodies, the possibility of employing minors for 40 hours, the loss of pupils for public employment, etc. In short, because I do not have time to further develop this crucial point, vocational training is increasingly entrusted to companies according to their immediate needs, to the detriment of young people and the future of the country. In the face of this disastrous balance sheet,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u103	Anything!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u104	...we will take the necessary steps once in power. We will introduce an employment guarantee that offers employment to every long-term unemployed person and we will repeal the reform of unemployment insurance. Finally, we will give back our letters of nobility to public vocational education by restoring the professional baccalaureate in four years, with strengthened general teachings, opening classes, reserving the apprenticeship tax to public institutions and introducing a guarantee of autonomy for pupils. In a nutshell, we will turn the page of this terrible neoliberal law that hunts down job seekers and misleads vocational education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u105	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u106	Yesterday, as I was preparing this session, I received a message on my phone: "Your CPF balance 2022 is up to date: + 380 euros. Check and use your rights before expiry! » It didn't take more to put me in a good mood. That would be a good start to my intervention. I clicked on the link: "Please answer all five questions to receive fully funded training from the government. We will help you verify your rights and direct you to training that meets your expectations, depending on your answers. A few clicks: English or computer, I only had to click once or twice, and my 380 euros were soon to be consumed. I have been told that, in front of a supermarket of a large sign, on the Côte d'Azur, there was a "mobile office", a van in fact, which offers you to spend your CPF money for language training and even to get a small voucher in return. After that, you can have fun with all kinds of dithyrambes about the benefits of your reform: you have negotiated and consumed vocational training and it is not for the best. It was the "and at the same time" component that was supposed to counterbalance the liberal devastation of labour ordinances. In fact, not even: you deconstruct everything "at the same time". Your operation transforms the training time into a 25 euro note, as if it were equivalent. The duration of training has dizzyingly dropped from three hundred hours in 2016 to sixty-seven hours today, and the average cost from 2500 to 1235 euros. Less long and less qualified training. The top three is driver's license, languages and proficiency checks, which is not nothing but far from the necessary ambitions. The result is clear. This is what your figures hide about the increase in the number of employees who use their account. You are actually undermining the overall quality of vocational training, when we need to raise the level. In the absence of regulation, vague training bodies are being set up to siphon the rights in euro entered in employee training accounts. More broadly, this monetization of the CPF has created an inflationary system by raising the cost of training without guaranteeing sufficient rights for employees to consider, for example, conversions. In fact, you have introduced a "Blue Card" system where intermediation remains marginal and where the real "freedom to choose your professional future" is reserved for a minority who will have the means to supplement their rights with their personal finances. And you took the opportunity to ease employers' obligations in the area of vocational training, to reduce the rate of the legal obligation paid by companies. Your law is a dangerous reform, far from a real right to be trained throughout its existence according to its aspirations, and in the face of technological changes, emerging professions and major challenges. You prefer to organize the confusion between initial and continuing training. With this reform, you have also managed to delegate the learning system to the market, while at the same time endorsing the weakening of professional high schools. Privatisation of learning policy is not, in our view, a solution. Companies are therefore given the opportunity to set up their own training centres, with the risk of a diploma being created per enterprise, to the detriment of any overall policy focusing on trades and qualifications. And as we feared, as many as 20% of CFAs are in financial difficulties, the consequences of which can be feared. Finally, with the promise of universal unemployment insurance, we stayed on display. The conditions have been so narrowly designed that only 800 independents benefited from them in 2020, according to a parliamentary report, to which we must add a few thousand resignations. On the other hand, it should be noted that the Government has been forced to impose new unemployment compensation rules that will affect more than 1 million people who are unemployed. Finally, I want to say that I am angry at the state's abandonment of its vocational training tool, the National Agency for Adult Vocational Training (AFPA), which does not find a real place in the scheme when we need it so much. [[MM. André Chassaigne and Jean-Hugues Ratenon as well as Mme Michèle Victory applaud]] While there is a need for public policy, you rely on the market – it's not a surprise. There is a need for another vision, backed by a large public service of training and a secure path between employment and training. "Free, protect," you sang, parodying the snow queen. The following sentence is: "I will never lie again. The truth is that this has resulted in a considerable collapse of collective protections, with a reduced training system and flattened unemployment rights. So make a real assessment!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u107	Mrs Catherine Fabre has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u108	The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future is one of the cornerstones of the reforms for employment and integration advocated by the Government and the presidential majority. Three years after its adoption, we, together with the chairman of the committee and my co-rapporteurs, wanted to assess the impact of this structural reform. Today, we can say that and we can be proud of it: the reform is bearing fruit. Its evaluation shows that it has succeeded, for the benefit of young people, employees, job seekers, in democratising and taking away learning and access to vocational training, in making governance more coherent and more effective with the creation of France skills. Let's figure out where we were going. Learning has been stagnating for fifty years. We went from 250,000 apprentices on average to 718000 in 2021: never seen. Finally, we managed to change the focus on learning, to move up to the level of Germany or Switzerland, and to make France a country of learning. As far as the personal training account is concerned, we have put an end to a locked and opaque system. Today, the French know that they have resources on their CPF, that they can use easily and as they wish to improve their skills, secure or energize their journey. What a change! I will confide in you: like many of you, I am sure, I have committed myself as a Member of Parliament to transform the daily lives of the French, in the field of work in particular, and to give them the means to carry out their professional project throughout their lives. Thanks to this reform, the work and the unwavering political will of the President of the Republic, Muriel Pénicaud, Élisabeth Borne and the deputies of the presidential majority, this Copernician revolution took place. In two years, the number of courses purchased annually has more than tripled. Beyond the figures, the renovation of the CPF is a major social step forward because it has led to the training of people who had hitherto had too little access to it. This is particularly the case for women and the least skilled workers. Entry into training increased by 74% among workers, compared with 24% among managers between 2019 and 2020. Moreover, the allocation of the CPF in euros rather than in hours allowed innovation. Thus, distance training has developed with the help of the various confinements, which we can welcome. It provided a customized approach, time frames adapted to the constraints of each and the same access to training modules throughout the country. In terms of quality control of training and agencies, the reform has also led to significant progress. Could you, Madam Minister, clarify the work in progress in this area? I understand it's very important. The reform also financed a free and tailor-made counselling service for every employee and job seeker. It aims to accompany them in their professional career and in the choice of training to buy. This service is still too unknown, but 91% of those who used it are satisfied. So I say this to those who listen to us: go meet your professional development advisor! The reform also allows companies to abound their employees' CPF by shifting financing complements to training they consider important. The social dialogue should find this opportunity to finally make training a strategic investment. The creation of eleven competence operators, organised around professional skills, has generated new synergies and inter-branch solidarity, generally welcomed by the various stakeholders. However, concerns were expressed on several occasions during the hearings on the financing of the system. The report of the Committee on Social Affairs shows that France's current deficit is largely due to cyclical reasons. However, another explanation lies in the success of learning and the CPF, which has exceeded all expectations. Because we have the will to deploy these training courses even more, which are a real investment for the future and which will generate many benefits for society, we need to think about the diversification of the system's revenues. The report sets out ways forward in this regard. Minister, how do you envisage funding for continuing training and learning? To conclude with the title I of the law for the freedom to choose his professional future, I thank the deputies of the La République group on the move for their collective contribution presented at the end of the report: it enriches him with the ups and downs of the ground. I come to Title II. The necessary reform of unemployment insurance corrects certain aberrations of the system which had led to institutionalized precarisation. It was necessary to put an end to these harmful effects by ensuring more justice and encouraging the resumption of activity. While it is difficult to assess the concrete effects of this reform that was put on hold during the health crisis, it makes sense at a time when tensions are very high in recruitment. Finally, the evaluation of Title III highlighted the progress made in the area of equal pay for women and men through the creation of the Occupational Equality Index. [[Fadila Khattabi and Michèle de Vaucouleurs applaud]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these are the main lessons learned from the report on the evaluation of the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. This report presents a well-founded and generally very positive judgment on the text. This is good news for employment, social justice and skills improvement: good news that encourages us to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u109	The Minister for Labour, Employment and Integration has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u110	I thank all the groups for the often constructive interventions that we have just heard and the Republic Group in the process of putting this debate on the agenda as part of the monitoring week. I also welcome the members of the Social Affairs Committee, its chairman, Fadila Khattabi, as well as the six rapporteurs of the assessment mission, Catherine Fabre, Carole Grandjean and Michèle de Vaucouleurs, and MM. Gérard Cherpion, Sylvain Maillard and Joël Aviragnet. Their report, of high quality, is the result of more than six months of work and dozens of hearings. The recommendations contained therein are a useful complement to the evaluation of the social partners, which has resulted in a national framework agreement on vocational training and apprenticeship. The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future, defended by Muriel Pénicaud, is one of the most structuring laws of the quinquennium. Of course, we still lack a setback to assess the full range of mechanisms it has created, but it already produces measurable results, which is fairly reflected in the report. I am confident that this legislation will continue to have its effect as a result of the vigorous recovery of our economy. In its title I, the law thoroughly reformed the system of alternance and vocational training, it unlocked learning for young people as well as for economic actors and placed them at the heart of the scheme. The obstacles to the creation of new apprentice training centres have been lifted, which has allowed the creation of nearly 2000 new centres since 2018, while we counted less than 1000 before the reform. The law set the first milestone in the unprecedented take-off of learning, which we have known since 2019. As I speak to you, we reach a number of historic contracts, with 718000 apprentices starting training in 2021. Contrary to what you said, Mr. Cherpion, there is no stagnation at the level of bac and infra-bac. On the contrary, a 50% increase in the number of apprentices has been recorded at these levels of qualification since 2017, which, it is true, accelerated between 2020 and 2021. The number of professionalization contracts also increased by more than 20% between 2020 and 2021. Undoubtedly, this law has changed the image of learning among families and young people. Learning is now considered for what it is: a path of excellence for sustainable integration into employment. You rightly stress the need not to break the momentum created by the law and by the exceptional aids introduced within the framework of the recovery plan. With regard to the essential issue of student orientation, Jean-Michel Blanquer, Minister of National Education, Youth and Sports, has recently developed several initiatives, including the creation of a single entry point in the rectorates to help the branches set up communication measures to attract young people to apprenticeship training, particularly in the areas of tension. The law also embodied the individual right to training by renovating the personal training account. Today, everyone has the opportunity to freely choose their training to adapt their skills and change their career path. With more than 2 million enrolments in training during the year 2021, compared to 630000 in 2019, the success of the CPF is undeniable. We have really democratised access to training: all socio-occupational categories make greater use of it and there is a catch-up among workers and employees, who had less access to vocational training before. The report points out that the CPF has "meeting with its public" and proposes some improvements which we agree with and which are in line with the findings of the social partners. A number of actions have already been implemented in 2021: Qualiopi certification, which has been compulsory since 1 January 2022 and whose "positive reception" you welcome, makes it possible to verify that training organisations meet certain quality criteria. The website moncompteformation.gouv.fr aims to make more visible the system of counselling in professional evolution, which allows everyone to be accompanied in their training choices. We believe, like you, that it is absolutely necessary to combat the phenomena of fraud and abuse. We are actively working to stop these abuses. The dual success of learning and the CPF has weighed heavily on the financial balance of France's skills. As the report points out, revenue contracted as a result of the crisis, while expenditure increased sharply. This evolution reflects the success of the CPF, but also the exceptional dynamic of learning. In this regard, I would like to recall that we have assumed our responsibilities by providing for a total grant of EUR 2.75 billion for 2021. In 2022, the State and the social partners will have to define the modalities for a sustainable path for the operator. For example, the law on the freedom to choose one's professional future has given young people and employees the tools to better integrate into working life and become the actors of their career paths throughout life. In its Title II, the Act makes the unemployment insurance system more equitable. The reform of the system, which has been fully in force since 1 December last year, has introduced a new regime that encourages work. Through the new calculation rules it introduces, it encourages employees to work more and employers to offer longer contracts. Thus, while the renewed governance, with the preparation of a scoping document, could not lead to an agreement negotiated by the social partners, this essential reform could be completed. The savings generated will also contribute to the return to the financial balance of UNEDIC by 2022 – a first since 2008. This is good news for the sustainability of the social protection system. The law also introduced a new right to unemployment insurance for employees who have resigned. This is an important step forward, which allows everyone to take their own risk and secure their project of evolution or conversion. As the report points out, the increase in this new right is more modest than the one we anticipated, which is due in particular to the health context, which is not favourable to resignations. We need to give this new right a little more time to assess whether its criteria need to evolve. The Act also provides for the right of access to unemployment insurance, under certain conditions, to self-employed workers. The increase in this allowance is also more modest than we anticipated. The support measures taken during the crisis, which limited business failures, are an explanatory factor. The draft law on self-employment provides for a relaxation of the conditions for access to this new right. In this connection, allow me to welcome the work of your colleague Dominique Da Silva. Finally, Title III aims to improve the quality of employment, particularly for vulnerable audiences. This is a new step towards a more inclusive society. Although it is too early to measure the impact of the reform of the obligation to employ disabled workers (OETH), the employment of persons with disabilities is increasing: the number of jobseekers with disabilities has been declining steadily since August 2018. The law has made it compulsory to create disability referents in the CFAs and in enterprises with more than 250 employees. The number of apprentices with disabilities also increased by almost 80% between 2019 and 2021. The Act has also made it possible to offer career paths to persons with disabilities by reforming the framework of adapted enterprises (EA): 40% of them have adopted the "CDD springboard" scheme to facilitate the occupational transitions of these persons. The law then strengthened the tools to combat abuses related to the posting of workers. These tools complement the legal arsenal available to the Labour Inspectorate to ensure compliance with the rules of fair competition. Finally, it created the Index of Professional Equality between Women and Men, which will ultimately ensure equal pay for men and women. This index, which has now become a part of society, is unanimously welcomed by the social partners as well as by entrepreneurs, managers of human resources and employees. It produces good results based on the steady increase in the level of grades and the number of reporting companies. We take note of the report's recommendations to strengthen the scope and relevance of certain indicators. These developments can be integrated into discussions with the social partners, with a view to constantly improving the index, as well as into discussions at European level on the draft directive on wage transparency. The Act of 24 December 2021 aimed at accelerating economic and professional equality has reinforced obligations related to the index of professional equality. In this respect, I welcome the remarkable work carried out by your colleague Marie-Pierre Rixain. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future is a great and beautiful law, which has allowed a profound transformation of our training apparatus and our social model and which gives everyone the opportunity to emancipate themselves through their work by concretizing their wishes for professional development. Of course, we need to continue this momentum and some devices may evolve to allow us to go further, which you rightly point out – I am thinking of the alternation promotion (Pro-A) and especially the VAE, which I very much believe in. Basically, this law continues to inspire us. Our approach for almost five years has been to give the assets the ability to remain free in their professional career, while being guided and accompanied in their choices, with the means to progress. Work and training are powerful levers of individual emancipation, social mobility and national cohesion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u111	We come to the questions. I would remind you that their duration, as well as that of the answers, is limited to two minutes, without the right to reply. Mrs Laurence Vanceunebrock has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u112	Taking into account the evolutions – revolutions – digital and robotics that have a full impact on the professional world, we wanted, by the law of 5 September 2018 for the freedom to choose one's professional future, to build a society of skills by improving vocational training. Thanks to the very comprehensive report produced by our colleagues, which I thank, we can now study its effects. While the advances in the training offer are exceptional – the renovation of the CPF is a real success – the skills assessments and the VAE should be given special attention. They are essential tools to enable employees as well as the company to ensure coherent and useful training. This includes the ability to take advantage of the skills and experience of employees who have developed a great deal in the sector, in order to help them train for the rest of their careers. It is a major subject for my constituency of Montluçon, an area that was heavily industrialized and is now seeking to reinvent itself. More specifically, over the past 15 years, the number of employees in the industrial sector has declined by 20 per cent. However, people cannot be offered training in new occupations without valuing the undeniable skills they have developed in the industry; In order to do so, access to the skills assessment needs to be more open. As far as the EAW is concerned, I agree with the view expressed by our colleagues in their report: I am sure that it makes it possible to fluidise career paths. I also think that it can support a person who chooses to interrupt his or her career in order to participate in the life of the city, by involving himself or herself, for example, in humanitarianism or ecology. The experience gained in a less academic way must then be better recognized as it will be an asset for a return to the professional world. So, minister, can you tell us how we can better value the experiences and skills of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u113	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u114	Competency assessment and validation of experience are two mechanisms that are well recognized by law for the freedom to choose one's professional future. They are part of the actions that contribute to the development of the skills of employees and job seekers. They can be financed by the CPF or by the skills development plan, when it is the choice of the company. Competency assessment is not an end in itself: it is a springboard tool, which is used by the person who performs it to identify his/her needs – training for example – or to undertake an EAW approach. Since 1 January 2022, the bodies offering the skills assessment must be certified Qualiopi, which is a new guarantee for the assets that mobilise it. Professional maintenance or professional development counselling (CEP) are certainly levers that could make it possible to make more use of it. The EAW is a path to certification that is still too modest, 20 years after its creation. There was unanimous agreement that the administrative procedure was cumbersome, that there were too many actors and that jury time was too long. However, I am convinced that the EAW is a good answer to allow certain assets to access the qualification in order to secure their journey.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u116	The law has opened up areas of experimentation, for example on EAW by blocks of competence. The health crisis has not allowed them to develop as we hoped, but I have launched an experiment aimed at simplifying procedures and accompaniment, specifically in the field of old age and autonomy. We are going to continue these experiments so that they can feed into the next major reform of the EAW, which I believe is necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u117	Mrs Carole Grandjean has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u118	The health crisis and the economic recovery reinforced the validity of the diagnosis established in 2018 by the law for the freedom to choose one's professional future: we are experiencing a skills revolution, at all levels of qualifications and everywhere in France. The democratisation of continuing training, particularly through the personal training account, now benefits – and this is a remarkable development – those who need it most. The CPF is in fact 50% mobilized by women, more likely to work part-time, and its use has increased by 74% among workers and employees, and very significantly among job seekers – more than a million training files have been accepted since July 2020. Accompaniment to professional transitions is a major concern. From a social point of view, it is a question of building solutions for each employee or job seeker; But it is also a question of building an answer for each territory, in order to preserve the dynamism of certain areas of life. As soon as the law was passed, mechanisms were put in place to best accompany these transitions. The professional development counselling and the personal activity account (CPA), which organises the interface between the personal training account, the skills passport and, soon, the preventive passport, are examples of tools created to better articulate all the work transition actions. The Pro-A, a retraining or alternance scheme, allows employees to carry out their professional development or promotion through an alternance training course. I stress that this solution is aimed primarily at employees whose level of qualification is below the level of licence, and that €270 million has been allocated to it under the recovery plan. So, Madam Minister, what are the avenues envisaged to make the existing arrangements more effective and anchored in the territories, in order to train employees and job seekers as best as possible, especially in the areas of tension?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u119	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u120	Indeed, the honourable Member, we find ourselves in a well-known paradoxical situation: while many companies are seeking to recruit, there are still many job seekers. This is why the plan to reduce recruitment tensions, which the Prime Minister and I launched at the end of September, aims to complement the investment effort in the skills of job seekers – the ICP represents an expenditure of EUR 15 billion since the beginning of the quinquennium: an additional EUR 1.4 billion is mobilised on the one hand to strengthen the skills of employees, adapt them to the profound changes in our economy, for a sum of EUR 600 million, and on the other hand to strengthen the training of job seekers by favouring training in the workplace associated with job promises. You rightly stress the need to territorialize our action. The plan to reduce recruitment tensions is thus declined in each employment pool; I have asked the sub-prefects of boroughs to work with all actors on effective solutions to deal with recruitment difficulties, and I will shortly organise a webinar with the participation of all stakeholders, to take stock of the implementation of the local roadmaps and to share good practices. Finally, I would like to point out that there are specific aids to facilitate the access of long-term job seekers to the sectors in tension, in particular EUR 1000 aid to remove financial obstacles to the resumption of an activity, and in particular training, when a job seeker is trained into a job in tension, and aid of EUR 8000 for companies recruiting long-term job seekers under a contract of professionalisation. [[Ms. Carole Grandjean applauds]] We therefore have here all the tools that should enable as many jobseekers as possible to return to employment, while meeting the needs of businesses.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u121	Mr Bernard Perrut has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u122	I would like to refer to the place of the regions in the overall alternation architecture, because while the reform has given an important place to France's competences, to the branches and to the operators of competences, the regions, up until now regulatory and which provided an important part of the financing, have the feeling of being put on the bench. So, Madam Minister, what actions could you take to encourage the regions to continue their investments, despite the loss of that competence, and to remain vital players in the territories, which they know well? Moreover, the development of learning should not be achieved at the expense of professionalization contracts. In order to ensure the sustainability of this system, which demonstrates its usefulness and is a lever for occupational integration, but also in the light of the recommendations of the social partners, would it not be appropriate to clarify between the apprenticeship contract and the professionalisation contract, in order to refocus them on their respective objectives in the field of initial and continuing training? Finally, my last question is one of those that have already been asked, with regard to e-mail or text calls concerning the personal training account. A bill had been tabled, but why did not such an initiative come from the Government, when the problem had been known for many months? Will the resulting scheme really be effective, or will it consist of an umpteenth article of the law voted but never applied, like the law aimed at regulating telephone opening in the field of energy renovation? We must put an end, Madam Minister, to all these scams that affect us every day.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u123	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u124	You mention many topics, starting with the place of the regions. They are obviously essential partners when it comes to economic development, training and employment. We continue to work hand in hand with them: you know that, in the framework of the competence investment plan, in particular, we have signed regional skill investment pacts (PRICs) with almost all regions, in which we have ensured that the regions maintain their efforts to train jobseekers – the state almost doubles this effort. We exchange regularly with the regions in order to reorient their action in this area. We had the opportunity to do so at the time of implementing the recovery plan: we had then obtained an endorsement to the PRICs, both in order to eventually redirect training to the developing sectors, and at the same time to integrate the 100,000 additional trainings proposed under the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", which must enable young people to be trained in the professions of the future. The regions also remain important partners in learning. As you know, they continue to benefit from two financial envelopes: one, 180 million euros, dedicated to certain CFA investments, those that are not included in the contract costs, i.e. the heavier investment projects; the other, EUR 135 million, for the operation of the CFAs, aims to support, if necessary, those who are experiencing difficulties – the CFAs of spatial planning, so to speak. The regions were able to see that the CFAs did not encounter any difficulties; So they wanted a certain fungibility to be possible between these envelopes – and we have allowed it – in order to be able to devote more money to the development and investments of the CFAs. Secondly, as I have had the opportunity to say, the development of learning between 2020 and 2021 is not at the expense of professionalisation contracts, which increase by 20%; It's a new trend that I'm looking forward to. You seem to doubt that, Mr. Congressman,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u125	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u126	The statistics department of my department will be able to provide you with the figures in question. In any case, I can assure you that professionalization contracts are increasing by 20%. [[Catherine Fabre and Carole Grandjean applaud]] Finally, two problems must be distinguished when it comes to calling. First, there is fraud and fraud, and we are working hand in hand with Olivier Dussopt to have a real plan of action to combat them. With regard to unfair marketing, I welcome the proposal for a law to regulate it. You're asking me why we didn't do it earlier: we wanted to incorporate an amendment on this in the FLP, but the Senate's rejection of the text did not allow us to complete our process.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u127	Mrs Laurence Trastour-Isnart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u128	Every citizen must be able to benefit from quality training and above all from choices and orientations regarding his/her professional future. Choosing a trade is an important decision, which will have effects throughout life. The information received by our young people in schools should be improved, as well as during their internships. Making a single internship in the third class does not make it possible to get to know the different trades; These internships are often carried out in the area of proximity of the young person, close to his family, his parents. This prevents him from knowing different professions, especially those in tension. Perhaps it would be necessary for companies themselves to offer internships within schools, so that young people can discover these new professions? When they are oriented towards learning, young people still hear too often that it is a garage road: it is not sufficiently valued. Of course, he is in high schools for the post-baccalaureate period, and this effort must be continued; But our young people, who are in third place and would like to choose learning paths, often have few choices. I'm going to caricature, but for having worked in the early childhood sector for a long time, I can tell you: young girls who are in third place are often advised to do an early childhood CAP. This is a shame, because there are many occupations in tension, for which we need labour. These young people should be sent to innovative occupations such as new technologies that require skills. Our young people have skills to value, but they don't know all of these. In this area, there is a real need for the State, regions, enterprises and national education to coordinate their actions in order to highlight this choice. What measures do you intend to take in terms of accompanying our young people so that they can open up to all trades, especially those in the future?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u129	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u130	You raise such an important question that I am not sure I can answer it in two minutes: the orientation of young people. You rightly point out that there are many well-known fine trades. For having had the opportunity to meet with a lot of young people under the "1 young, 1 solution" plan, I am struck by the fact that the trades in the industry are absolutely not recognized for what they are. Many young people and parents remained in the image of what industry could have been in the 19th century. When I visit apprentice training centres, I am also struck by the passion that young people can have for mouth jobs or building jobs, for example, which are not well known. According to the division of responsibilities between the State and the regions decided during the reforms, information on trades is the responsibility of the regions. Important time slots have been provided in the school paths so that young people can access them. More recently, Jean-Michel Blanquer took the initiative to create a single entry point in each rectorate, in order to help the branches set up communication actions and inform young people about these busy professions. Finally, apprenticeship training is now recognised and visible in AFFELNET (assignment of pupils via the net) and Parcoursup. More than 6000 courses of this type are accessible through the Pathup where a page is dedicated to them. Nevertheless, there is still a long way to go to improve orientation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u131	Mr Brahim Hammouche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u132	The law for the freedom to choose one's professional future has been very successful thanks to the deployment of the personal training account, which can be assessed in quantitative and qualitative terms. In 2020, 2.8% of the French labour force used the scheme, compared with an average of 1.5% between 2016 and 2019. The share of women increased from 46.2% to 49.8% between 2019 and 2020, while the share of jobseekers increased from 32% to 38% in the same period. If these findings are satisfactory for our collective action, here I would like to look at the ways in which the law can be improved, as discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs or between the social partners and the economic actors on the ground. The average cost of training files decreased from €2120 in 2019 to €1235 in 2020, with employees choosing shorter training courses, lasting just under two weeks in half of the cases, financed directly by the CPF. We must keep the focus on professionalisation, apprenticeship to a profession, or even on retraining or the acquisition of a diploma, because our citizens are constantly adapting to the demands of our time. We must therefore better accompany their desire, the creation of jobs of the future, the flexibility they show, including sometimes in adversity, especially in times of health crisis. I would like to ask you about the decline in training in health, social, medico-social and hotel and catering occupations. In some regions – as in my territory of Moselle Nord, in the Upper Country and its valleys – considerable energy is already needed to attract know-how, experience and skills. We're already under stress. The Government's commitment in this regard is reflected in its integrated recovery in the PRICs as well as in the Operational Readiness for Employment (OPE) trainings. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group. – Ms. Carole Grandjean also applauds]] Could you give us a step point and tell us how the health crisis affected the application of this law? Does the Government intend to take further steps to revive the attractiveness of these professions?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u133	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u134	You note, Mr.Member, that training funded by the CPF has a lower duration and cost than before 2019 and that it may not be sufficiently professional. Hence the idea of multiplying the policies of abundance, as the state did in 2021 by devoting 25 million euros to digital training: nearly 5000 active people trained as a professional web developer. Regions, employment centres, skill operators and even branches are putting in place targeted abundances towards training and priority audiences. Our current objective and to facilitate the abundance of the CPF by companies, and to develop the co-construction of pathways between employers and employees. We are working with the Caisse des dépôts et consignations to simplify the technical arrangements for setting up these abundances by companies. As for the sectors you refer to, their attractiveness is linked to the level of remuneration they offer. In the fall of 2021, we began work with 40 branches whose conventional minima were below SMIC before 1 October 2021. All these branches were received at the Ministry of Labour where they were asked to enter into wage negotiations as soon as possible. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group, as well as on the benches of the Dem group]] Of the 40 branches concerned, some 15 now have conventional minimums at least equal to the SMIC, which means that about 2 million employees will benefit from an increase in wages. In hotels, cafes and restaurants, for example, the average increase in the salary scale is 16%. We will follow closely the discussions in the other branches.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u135	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u136	Like many colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the CPF, which, since the reform, is no longer fed in number of hours but in euros: 500 euros per year for full-time employees up to the limit of 5000 euros; EUR 800 per year for unskilled employees up to EUR 8000. Soon turned into a monetary value, he was interested in many crooks attracted by the lure of gain. Part of the evaluation report is devoted to fraud at the CPF, which is considered a sensitive subject. The report identifies the many scams that poison the daily lives of our citizens, and indeed – and this is more serious – that harm them: irregularities in the eligibility of the training organisation to provide information; aggressive commercial approaches aimed at encouraging potential users to purchase against their will; false records; identity usurpations. The worst is that these practices often target our younger and more difficult fellow citizens in their training journey, are a waste of their CPF and can penalize them in the pursuit of their professional lives. When we alerted you about a possible bounty effect for unscrupulous organizations, you told us that there was a way to give more initiatives and choices to our youth. It seems, however, that our fears were not completely unfounded. Providing access to training does not mean dissipating content or quality. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the controls of the bodies to ensure that they offer the training promised and that they deliver content that has added value. It is also important to ensure that training is recognised and valued in the labour market. The Caisse des dépôts estimates that fraud could amount to EUR 16 million. It is not normal for the State to lose so much money and for individuals to be the potential victims of reform that is supposed to bring them benefits. How does the Government intend to eliminate this grey area from training and with what means?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u137	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u138	Like all of you, I'm getting abusive text messages on the CPF, but I don't think we should throw the baby away with the bath water because, in 2021, some 2 million employees carried out concrete training thanks to this device, which allows them to progress in their professional career. There is, of course, a need to ensure the continuous improvement of the training provided through the CPF. In recent months, some steps have already been taken. Since 1 January, all organisations wishing to be eligible for the CPF must have the Qualiopi quality certification. We are in the process of renewing – or not – CPF eligibility certifications. I can assure you that France skills is doing a thorough job to make sure that the training really allows the beneficiary to progress in his professional itinerary, that it is a real plus for him. On the website moncompteformation.gouv.fr, we have improved the visibility of the professional development consultancy, a service insufficiently known. Each Frenchman can have several hours to take stock of his skills, evoke his wishes for professional development and be accompanied to build his career path. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is true that we must also fight against unfair slamming. That is the meaning of the bill introduced by the Member of Parliament Catherine Fabre, which takes over a mechanism that we wanted to introduce but which was rejected by the Senate. With Olivier Dussopt, we also have an action plan to combat the risks of fraud and fraud at the CPF. I can assure you that we are very mobilized to track down fraudsters, whether in my department, in the Caisse des dépôts or in TRACFIN's services. We'll be intransigent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u139	Mrs Annie Chapelier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u140	The law on the freedom to choose one's professional future has made it possible to thoroughly renovate the governance of vocational training. We have thus created a new operator, France Skills, who has come to replace the four pre-existing actors. This necessary rationalization work was aimed at putting an end to a complex, unreadable, unsatisfactory system. France's skills have emerged as the cornerstone of the new vocational training architecture in our country. We have provided it with a new funding channel to enable it to fully and effectively carry out its many responsibilities. It thus receives the contribution to the financing of vocational training, the bulk of the proceeds of the apprenticeship tax, the additional contribution to apprenticeship, and the contribution 1% CPF-CDD, paid by companies employing employees on fixed-term contracts. After three years of existence, France's skills still have a worrying deficit. By integrating the forecast budget for 2022, the cumulative deficit is expected to reach EUR 11.5 billion. This financial deterioration is partly due to the health crisis, which on the one hand reduced the wage bill to which France's resources are backed, and on the other hand increased the expenditure on training and apprenticeship. However, while the recovery is strong, the organization is expected to remain in deficit by 2022 – about 3.7 billion euros. It is therefore necessary to consider the sustainability of the financing of vocational training by France skills, in a context of strong growth in learning and the use of the CPF. As the rapporteurs note, the use of borrowing cannot be considered as a lasting solution for a public operator distinct from the State. Can you tell us what the Government is thinking about adapting the funding of this public institution so that it can have the necessary resources to carry out its tasks?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u141	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u142	In fact, Madam Member, France responsibilities is now the cornerstone of the new system of financing vocational training. Its resources come from the unique contribution to vocational training and alternance (CUFPA), which is itself based on the wage bill. Its expenditures are mainly used to finance learning, the CPF and ICP. We know the importance of the CPF to enable everyone to build their professional project and have all the assets to achieve it. As for ICP, it is essential for us to put an end to a paradox: companies that fail to recruit against unemployed people who do not have the right qualifications. These issues are crucial, not to mention France's expenditure on skills in adapting employee training – another major topic. It is true that the financial crisis has led to an imbalance in the operator's finances, whose revenues have recanted as a result of the reduction in the wage bill. The decline in income from the covid crisis is estimated at around €2 billion. Expenditure, on the other hand, has continued to increase, as a result of the exceptional success of learning – which I believe we can all rejoice in – and the sharp increase in asset mobilization of their rights to the CPF. France's financial trajectory thus deteriorated during the financial year 2021, reaching a deficit of around €3.8 billion. The Government assumed its responsibilities to finance the operator, with an exceptional grant of €2.75 billion that same year. In the coming months, the State and the social partners will have to define how the operator's finances will return to balance. In order not to penalise employees, we have also mobilised support for the formation of the National Employment Fund (FNE-Training), to accompany the transitions and skills transformations made necessary by the upheavals in our economy. The discussions will have to continue in the coming months in order to maintain these investments while ensuring the return to the balance of France's skills.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u143	Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u144	The "Professional Future" Act includes provisions on equal pay for women and men and on combating sexual and gender-based violence in the workplace. In order to strengthen the fight against such violence, it first requires companies to post details of the legal actions initiated in relation to sexual harassment and the contact details of the competent authorities. It also provides for the appointment of a focal point for combating sexual and gender-based harassment in companies with more than 250 employees. While these developments are welcome, they are clearly insufficient. France has ratified International Labour Organization (ILO) Convention No. 190, which aims to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work. This ratification alone is not enough: in order to be fully effective, existing mechanisms must be strengthened, whether they include reporting procedures, sanctions, training, awareness-raising or witness protection. Gender-based behaviour and violence in the workplace remain widespread. Domestic law, even supplemented by the provisions contained in the "Professional Future" Act, does not, as such, meet the objectives set out in Convention No. 190. What means do you intend to use to implement the recommendations contained therein, in order to effectively combat sexual and gender-based violence in the world of work?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u145	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u146	The question you raise is essential, since a recent survey shows that 60% of Europeans interviewed have already experienced some form of sexism or sexual harassment at work during their working life. We cannot, of course, accept this: the adoption of a solid normative framework in France was essential to combat these behaviours. The law clearly requires the employer to take all necessary measures to prevent acts of sexual harassment and gender-based conduct in the enterprise. I am thinking, for example, of the appointment of a focal point for this topic in companies with more than 250 employees, but also of the inclusion, in the compulsory sectoral negotiations on occupational equality, of the question of combating sexual harassment and gender-based behaviour. Above all, acts of sexual violence and harassment are subject to heavy criminal penalties, namely two years' imprisonment and 30000 euros' fine. I would remind you, as you did, that France was one of the first countries to ratify ILO Convention No. 190 on violence and harassment in the world of work. Finally, the Labour Inspectorate is heavily mobilized and has carried out more than 1200 interventions in this field since 2019. I can assure you, therefore, that we are very active on these issues. It seems to me that we now have a very solid legal arsenal to respond to it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u147	Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u148	Despite the positive opinion expressed in the report, the reform of learning is a real disaster at all levels.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u149	Say hello to the shade!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u150	It has degraded public education and caused students to flee to private learning by deregulating the creation of CFA and by massively subsidising the private sector: almost €6 billion has been paid to employers since July 2020 to hire apprentices, while vocational and agricultural high schools have had to cope with the resources of the board. The Government's vision of learning benefits only marginally those who find it most difficult to integrate into the labour market: reform and employment subsidies have led to an explosion in the number of apprentices in higher education, particularly in large schools. More than 60% of apprentices thus have a higher level than the baccalaureate. The Court of Auditors points out that "the bulk of the new places created have benefited pupils able to follow a long course and have hardly benefited vulnerable audiences. While this choice can be justified in order to develop learning in our country, it only improves on the margins the integration into the labour market of the most qualified young people." In addition to being ineffective, the mechanisms created to develop learning therefore create a boon effect. Assessment of this law and the support schemes that followed it: France will lack skilled labour in certain key areas that companies will refuse to finance, the qualification of young people will be degraded, the skills acquired will be less sustainable than in public education and the poorest will remain on the job. When will the Government put an end to this madness and reorient the subsidies granted to private companies towards public vocational education, in order to ensure quality training, both professional and humanistic?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u151	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u152	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I find it quite shocking that you are critical of the development of learning. The fact that 718000 young people signed an apprenticeship contract in 2021 means very clearly that so many young people are engaged in a free training course, receive a salary, discover the business world and very often end up finding a job. So I find it difficult to understand your criticism. On the contrary, our objective is to continue to develop learning, as I see it as the best way to enable young people to move towards a variety of occupations, requiring a wide range of levels of qualification. I would also like to point out that the very clear progress in learning between 2020 and 2021 is general and that the strongest acceleration concerns even CAPs and professional baccalaureates. All the young people who are trained in the CFAs and whom I have met discover occupations of passion – crafts of mouth and cooking, trades of metallurgy, trades of building. These are all very beautiful professions, not well known. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I can therefore assure you that the Government will continue to make every effort to develop training through learning, including by enabling some young people, who do not necessarily have all the keys to successful learning, to prepare for it. This is the whole meaning of the pre-learning that we have created and that we want to continue to develop. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We want to continue to make learning a path of excellence, so that as many young people as possible can access stable employment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u153	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u154	The reform we are debating was to give concrete expression to the 2017 promise of universal unemployment insurance, thanks to the opening of unemployment rights for resigning employees and self-employed workers. Three years after their adoption, it must be noted that these measures have fallen far short of the expectations and objectives of the law. Indeed, the reform initially aimed at a target of 29,300 beneficiaries per year among the self-employed – whether they are artisans, traders or micro-entrepreneurs. But the conditions for receiving unemployment benefit, set by decree, were so restrictive that only 800 independents benefited from it in 2020. The balance sheet is thus forty times lower than expected. These figures are taken from a very critical information report on this mechanism, drawn up in April 2021 by the Committee on Social Affairs. The situation is similar in the case of workers who have resigned: according to Pôle Emploi, only 6300 people have benefited from the opening of unemployment rights, whereas the law covered 30,000 cases per year. My question is therefore simple: what measures does the Government intend to take to ensure effective access to unemployment insurance rights for self-employed and resigning employees?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u155	The minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u156	You are right: the rise in the self-employed allowance (ATI) has been much more modest than we originally envisaged. In a way, however, this shows that the exceptional support measures deployed during the health crisis have borne fruit and limited the number of business failures, which is good news. However, as the President of the Republic said on 16 September at the time of the announcement of the plan for self-employed workers, it was necessary to relax the conditions for access to the ATI. It is the meaning of the provisions of the draft law in favour of independent professional activity, which provides for the creation of a new way of access, no longer requiring the recognition of liquidation or judicial reorganization. The monthly amount of the ATI will be capped so that it cannot exceed the average monthly income received during the 24 months preceding the payment of the allowance. In addition, access to the ATI will only be possible once every five years in order to avoid potential windfall effects. On the other hand, the criterion which is currently the most blocking – to have received an average of at least 10000 euros annually during the two years preceding the cessation of activity –, each of which understands how much it could have been made less relevant by the crisis, will be relaxed by regulation: only the best of the two years will be retained. The bill also provides that a report on the new arrangement will be submitted to Parliament by the end of 2024. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] Access to unemployment insurance for resigning employees is indeed an important issue, to which the Government remains very committed. It is true that the rise of this new right is also more modest than anticipated, even though 14,000 rights were opened between 1 November 2019 and October 2021. Again, the health context, which is not conducive to resignation, must be taken into account. Nevertheless, the means of simplifying access to this right, and possibly extending it by relaxing the condition of previous activity, can be examined in the context of a future evolution of the rules governing unemployment insurance. However, since the beginning of last year, I have noted an acceleration in the use of this mechanism. It therefore seems premature to amend the rules now.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u157	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u158	At the request of the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left, the meeting was suspended for five minutes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u159	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u160	The next item is the questions on non-treatment areas. I would remind you that the Conference of Presidents has set the maximum time limit for each question and answer at two minutes. Mrs Agnes Chill has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u161	Since the decree of December 2019 and the evolution of the rules relating to non-treatment zones, known as ZNT, our farmers are faced with an increasing concern: there are additional constraints on their activity and they lack time to adapt effectively, while the study commissioned by the Government to ANSES, the National Agency for Health Security of Food, Environment and Work, is still not available. This decision, together with the intervention of the Council of State requesting the Government to clarify its copy, undermines the agricultural world, which had requested, in vain, a moratorium in order to assess and take into account the economic impacts. As you know, our farmers are constantly striving to comply with the regulatory developments affecting them, in particular by investing, for example, in anti-driving nozzles and by forcing themselves, within the framework of charters, to act without wind. I would therefore like to make myself the voice of the many professionals in my constituency who call me almost daily and express their fears, mainly related to the economic aspect. While aid following last year's freezing episode has still not been paid in its entirety, farmers are really concerned about the terrible loss of profits that the geographical reduction of exploitable parcels, linked to respect for non-processing areas, will inevitably lead to. What compensation will be offered to professionals in the sector to compensate for this dry loss of income? When will they intervene and be legally secured? If these compensations are not to be a mistake, it is imperative that they are not taken from the CAP budget, the common agricultural policy. Can you assure us? Minister, you know the burden on our farmers. Depending on your answer, many may find hope. Their expectations are very strong.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u162	The next speaker is the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u163	First of all, Mrs. Thill, the latest decisions on non-treatment areas announced a few days ago were not taken at the initiative of the Government. We have only responded to an injunction from the Council of State – you have noted it and I thank you for that. It is very important to recall this because it is essential to separate what is the executive or legislative power, and what is the legal power. Secondly, with regard to the implementation of these measures, we have obviously complied with the injunction of the Council of State but trying to proceed in the most pragmatic way possible, particularly in view of the situation you have just mentioned. Thirdly, the issue of compensation is very important, particularly for farmers who do not have an alternative solution to products which they could no longer use, after setting the minimum distance, because this situation would affect production capacity. As indicated in the published documents, we have introduced a re-visitation clause, set at 1 October 2022, in order to identify with the profession the ways and means of compensation and compensation. In concrete terms, we are already beginning to organize meetings with professionals. The next one, which will deal with the issue of compensation and compensation, will take place by the end of the week, in order to prepare the re-visit. We are therefore moving forward with pragmatism and determination on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u164	Mrs Agnes Thill has the floor on a second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u165	After the little information you have just given about the financial compensation for our farmers – which I thank you for – I would like to ask you about a problem that arises upstream: the persistent absence of opinions from ANSES. Indeed, on 21 December 2021, the Government announced that it would rely on it to determine the application distances of plant protection products classified as CMR 2, i.e. products suspected of being carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction, of category 2. Such an approach should speed up scientific assessments, thus updating marketing authorisations, known as marketing authorisations, for new products. As a result of these notices, a transitional phase is planned, effective October 1, 2022, during which the current 10 metre distances would be maintained. According to the Government's press release, ANSES "will therefore be required to explicitly set a non-treatment distance for the products concerned upon request". The request for an opinion is consistent with the role of the Agency, which has been required to set safety distances in its marketing authorisations since 2016, and the government decision will therefore concern products that have been approved prior to that date. Between 100 and 200 products could be required to request an update, according to the Agency's estimates. However, the anger of farmers persists – I think you know – because the opinions that follow a field study carried out by ANSES have not yet been published. No studies have been launched, leaving farmers, who do not have any returns, in the most complete blur. Why 10 meters and not 5, 50 or 100? Without a serious return from the ANSES, the choice of spreading distance becomes completely random. I would therefore like to know what means the Government has planned for ANSES to finally deliver its opinions in the near future. Above all, will the budget allocated to the Agency be sufficient to produce such studies?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u166	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u167	You're getting to know me. I have always chosen to rely on science and reason to make a decision. This seems to me to be a good policy and that's what I've been trying to do since I was head of the department, that is, a little less than two years ago. It turns out that, with regard to the use of RMCs2, we have two options: either generic distances are provided, or a product-by-product approach is chosen, so that each distance is relevant to the product. Clearly, this second method appears to be the best of both. That is common sense. This is all the more true since today, for certain products known as CMR2, the marketing authorisations granted by ANSES already provide for minimum distances of use. However, it is observed that these can be 10 metres as well as 3 metres, proof that a targeted approach to setting the distance actually required according to the product is the most relevant one. By relying on the ANSES method, ANSES is given the means and the capacity to conduct all the necessary studies. You regret that these studies are not yet available, but I would remind you that ANSES was requested on 21 December. Applications must be filed and the analyses must then be made. Until we know the results, produced by product, we stick to the current situation. This approach is the most pragmatic and, ultimately, the most in line with the reality seen from the point of view of protecting our citizens as well as the use of products.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u168	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u169	Since we are talking about application, I take the opportunity of this week of monitoring, which allows us to evaluate the action of the Government but also the public policies, to return to a topic that we have recently discussed in committee: Phytosignal. [[Smile]] This device was launched in 2013 at the time of Stéphane Hollande, pardon, by Stéphane Le Foll – revealing lapsus! It is a telephone platform, a green number accessible to individuals to enable them to denounce bad practices of farmers. After having been experimented in New Aquitaine, Phytosignal spreads gently on the national territory, particularly in Brittany and Normandy. I hope that we will once and for all put the hallow to this device, that we will exclaim: "Stop it! " Farmers, as well as government departments, would like the Minister of Agriculture and Food to speak on this. As you know, farmers, like all the French, need first of all consideration and confidence. They're professionals. They have been trained, as have agricultural contractors and members of cooperatives, in the application of plant protection products. The ones they use are licensed. What profession would be willing to put such pressure on him? A few days ago, I was talking to a state representative in Ille-et-Vilaine. He wanted to know why I was shocked by this situation. I answered him by asking him how he would react if we set up a platform to evaluate the prefectural body, with the possibility for every citizen to call a green number to complain about the state services in his department. Moreover, where the application of plant protection products poses a problem to an individual, the latter may call the ARS, the Regional Health Agency, the DRAAF, the Regional Directorate for Food, Agriculture and Forestry, the DREAL, the Regional Directorate for the Environment, Planning and Housing or the Environmental Police. Since all these possibilities already exist, there is no need to put additional pressure on farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u170	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u171	As you said, the Phytosignal device was created in 2013. I do not approve it on substance or form. In substance, I am one of those who consider him to be stigmatizing. I am very struck by the fact that, when we discuss these issues, we sometimes forget that all the products concerned have been authorised both by a European agency and by a national agency,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u172	That's it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u173	... and it is therefore suggested that our farmers would use products that are not registered. In other words, because some people have doubts about different products, there is a suspicion about farmers – whereas the responsibility for type-approval lies with the European and French health authorities. One might as well speak of "products authorized by health agencies", and it would be a very different thing to refer to the platform as "products authorized by health agencies signal." » As for form, I think we need to follow a method. As you said, this device was first launched in New Aquitaine. The right method is to make a feedback to look at what happened and see if it served anything. That's why I made the decision to pause the device, to understand the feedback. You see it: my position is very clear on the substance and on the form.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u174	Mr Grégory Labelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u175	France is one of the first European countries to adopt, in 2006, a regulatory framework for the establishment of non-treatment zones. More recently, it has been extended to the vicinity of housing and settlements for vulnerable people. These are fixed at 10 meters for high crops and at 5 meters for others, or at 3 meters on condition of using anti-driving jet nozzles. In the Somme, despite initial differences on the relevance of this measure, the Chamber of Agriculture, the FDSEA, or departmental federation of farmers' unions, and the prefect have agreed to sign a charter of good neighbourliness, which has allowed to take into account the main issues, while caring for the interests of all stakeholders. However, the application of NTZs is not an end in itself. Some riparians of untreated areas now complain of plants growing anarchicly on the edge of the fields, treating them themselves with plant protection products that are sometimes more toxic. The agricultural world, on the other hand, calls for more pragmatic measures. While farmers generally understand the interest of the NTAs, they do not want to be harmed. In addition to financial compensation to compensate for the lack of exploitation of untreated areas, two measures appear necessary. First, untreated areas need to be better studied on a case-by-case basis. If there are hedges, tall trees or walls, the distance of 5 meters does not seem necessary. At the same time, in order to avoid the nibbling of their land, farmers demand that every new house built on the edge of their fields be, from the moment it is built, fitted with a wall or hedge, so as not to have new TLDs. Do you think it is possible to include these two measures to improve the regulation of NTZs?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u176	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u177	Mr President, the question you are raising is very important. It concerns protection: the question is what actions can be taken to limit the spread of products by drift. Today, as these products are approved at European level, the European Health Agency – the EFSA, or the European Food Safety Authority – considers that the use of certain practices can limit drift, and to this end leaves only one possibility: the nozzle, which is an agricultural material. We hope that, at the initiative of France, this European guide can evolve by taking into account hedges, walls or other practices to avoid product drift. The amendment of the European guide can only be proposed on the basis of scientific and tangible evidence, showing how a hedge can limit drift. To this end, we have already launched several months ago a study, called CAPRIV, or Reconciling the application of plant protection products and the protection of residents, which the Ministry finances to the tune of 500,000 euros, which began in 2021-2022. We should thus be able to benefit by the end of 2022 from the results showing scientifically how a wall, hedge or other physical barrier can reduce the aerial risks of drift of these products and, in this way, be able to argue for the amendment of the European guide, which directly affects the decision of the ANSES, since the latter is based on this guide. I therefore fully agree with your observation. We have already taken action in this direction, but now we have to collect the scientific results. The approach cannot be empirical and must necessarily be a scientific demonstration. It will be done soon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u178	Mr Dominique Potier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u179	Mr Minister, during the debate we had in committee on nitrites, we had the opportunity, and you will have it in the next few hours, to dialogue on the place of democracy and science, and on their renewed and indispensable dialogue. This issue, which had not been dealt with in the Ecophyto plans, is one of the subjects that has arisen recently and you thus inherit a situation from which we are seeking to emerge. For my part, I would like to talk about the lessons to be learned. How can we organise a peaceful public debate? Should the National Commission for Public Debate be mobilised in advance on all matters relating to agriculture and food? Should we organize a territorial dialogue and give us the means of this dialogue? Beyond the democratic question, I will ask two more structural questions of prevention. The first is that of urban planning: learning from the lessons of these non-treatment zones, have you engaged with your Government colleagues in a reflection aimed at providing buffer zones, intermediate zones in local plans, and at ensuring that local urban planning plans (PLUs), which have become intercommunal since the law, known as ALUR, for access to housing and renovated urban planning, allow us to anticipate, within the framework of the territorial dialogue, these boundary areas, so that they do not become zones of conflict, but of conciliation? Secondly, have you mobilised the resources of ACTA, the Association for Agricultural Technical Coordination, ANSES, APCA, the Permanent Assembly of Chambers of Agriculture, and all the resources available to imagine new functions in these buffer zones, which can be laboratory areas of another agriculture, but also agroforestry and biodiversity areas, contributing both to the well-being of the inhabitants and their health and to the benefits expected for the agricultural environment? What innovations could we find to emerge from conflicts that mortify our society and devalue the work of our farmers?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u180	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u181	Mr President, the first question you are asking, which is essential, is how to have a calmed debate on this issue. This requires a genuine and strong commitment to the debate, in order to assume and say loud and clear that all these products are approved by health agencies. It is necessary to engage forcefully to contradict all those who tell – what is not your case – absolutely anything on this subject, seeking here and there how to stir up fears and fears, thereby stigmatizing farmers, which can only result in the relocation of our agriculture. It is also necessary to commit forcefully to say, for example – as I am doing in a trans-partisan spirit, because we are also taking advantage of what was done during the previous quinquennium – that, since 2016, the quantity of CMR1 products has decreased by 93% and that of CMR1 and CMR2, by 40%. That is not said anywhere, when this transition is very real and we should be proud of it. France is also at the forefront among European countries, and even at the global level. We must also engage forcefully in important debates, of which I know how much you are involved, on the role of agriculture as a fosterr. But who is talking about what happened in Sri Lanka, where the state decided to ban plant protection products but had to, three or four months later, reverse that decision because it could no longer feed its own people? This debate is very interesting. This is a real political battle that we must wage. I'm sorry I didn't answer all the questions, but I wanted to stress the first one, which I thought was particularly important.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u182	Mr André Chassaigne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u183	I will return to my initial concern about the inclusion in the EGALIM law, Law No. 2018-938 of 30 October 2018 for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, of the provisions relating to the ZNTs. I felt that we were going to be trapped in a legal battle between farmers and residents, without, however, providing a balanced solution to the fundamental problems related to the use of plant protection products. We are there today, moving towards an umpteenth reference to regulatory measures, the hot potato being entrusted to ANSES, after the successive arbitrations of the Constitutional Council and the Council of State. Our debate can only reflect opposition to the assessment and legal scope of the law, the new decrees and the ministerial decrees resulting therefrom. While I understand both the sensitivity of the agricultural world to additional constraints and that of the inhabitants and civil society, who expect more protection, the key issue remains excluded – that of the means we are using to accompany the overall agro-ecological transformation of all agricultural systems. By focusing on the consequences after authorisation to place plant products on the market, as you said earlier, we continue to take the problem backwards, with all possible stigmatizations and drifts, while evacuating the fundamental stakes which overdetermine the use of these products, the integration of farmers into a production chain, with their socio-economic and technical dependence, the level of the purchase prices of the products, which conditions the yields and consequently the use of the plant. In the face of a CAP with no real agro-ecological ambition and a national strategic plan that tries not to upset anyone while trying to make the most of the available financing tools, how can we really talk about the objectives and structural guidelines of our policy – because that is the root of the problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u184	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u185	Mr President, I know your commitment and I think we have a lot in common, but I cannot let you say that there is no very strong commitment in this new common agricultural policy. I could give you a lot of examples: whether it is proteins, hedges, which we strongly defend, these agri-environmental measures, the 30% increase plan, the bio installation or the new conditionalities, there is a real vision, but a vision with a method. Indeed, to make a transition, one must be able to invest, and to be able to invest, one must consolidate income, because no one can invest if he or she does not have an income. The second element, which must ask us and which I know he has asked you to do, is that if the CAP is not implemented at European level with the method and pragmatism that I have defended in the French national strategic plan, this could result in a 13% reduction in our production and a 20% increase in our imports. This is a nonsense, because these imports are much less so from an environmental point of view because, today, there are no boundaries to the environment. Our agri-food sovereignty is absolutely imperative and Europe has a nurturing role in the world. It is clear, therefore, that we must succeed in putting reason and science back into this debate. It is, however, very difficult. Sometimes, in fact – we talked about glyphosate, on which I know your courageous position – we see opposing environmental, feeding or land-related objectives. We must have the courage to face this complexity. It is with a vision and courage that we will move things forward.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u186	Mr Jean-Paul Dufrègne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u187	My question, which has already been discussed, will focus more specifically on the difficulties experienced by farmers on the ground. The NTAs particularly affect – not to say: essentially – peri-urban territories, which have experienced strong growth in recent decades. The interlocking of agricultural land and built land is sometimes a matter of lace, especially in regions of arable crops such as Nord-Pas-de-Calais or Île-de-France, as well as in all major wine regions. As a result, non-treatment areas are heavily affected by certain field, viticulture and arboriculture farms, whose farmers are already under urban pressure and have often made enormous efforts with regard to their treatment practices. These farmers legitimately want to know how the state intends to accompany them and whether you have provided economic compensation for crop losses. In addition, they would like to know your position on the areas of withdrawal that will be required before any new development or construction projects in these areas, and on the modalities of consultation in the definition of the charters of engagement at the departmental level. Finally, they are suspended from arbitrations proposed by ANSES regarding the limitation of withdrawal areas when farms and housing sites are separated by physical barriers, such as walls or hedges. What specific information or commitments on these issues can you give them today?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u188	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u189	I already answered your question about walls and hedges earlier. It is common sense, the experience on the ground which is expressed here – and which I share in every respect – and which points to the existence of physical barriers when they are not taken into account in scientific evaluation. But if the agricultural world often reflects on this empirical reality, if it is to influence scientifically sound decisions, it must move from empiricism to scientific data. Therefore, with regard to walls and hedges, we have undertaken this study, financed to the tune of 500,000 euros, in order, therefore, to translate empiricism into scientific facts and, by the end of the year, to examine the subject in the context of the preparation of the EFSA guide, before the criteria thus defined apply to the ANSEs. The issue of urban planning is very important. Article 200 of the Law "Climate and Resilience" has also amended the Urban Planning Code, giving the competent local authority the opportunity to include NPAs in LRPs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u190	Mr Eric Girardin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u191	As has already been specified, the revision of the ZNT scheme provides for the extension of these areas to the places receiving workers and for better informing the residents. In my department of Marne, several tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural and wine-growing land could thus be affected by this new measure. On the territory of the controlled label of origin (AOC) champagne, in particular, more than 1000 hectares of vines are currently concerned by a distance of 10 meters from ZNT near the houses. The areas concerned will be much larger with the extension of the scope of application of the ZNT. As you know, the champagne AOC presents a very important piecemeal fragmentation. This mooring is one of the main features of the historical Champagne vineyard. This presents difficulties for the farms affected by a NTO with the risk that these plots will become totally unproductive or even disappear. Farmers and wine-growers show some concern and misunderstanding about this new scheme and its future developments. In fact, new rules are being imposed on them and they are likely to evolve further. They call for greater clarity and regret, in particular, that the measures in question are taken by regulation. They are in favour of the collective information of the residents located near the plots upstream of the vines treatment but ask to have only one interlocutor, the mayor of the commune. They want flexibility to inform the population and call for practical arrangements for farmers and wine growers, particularly in terms of deadlines. Finally, they want to have a precise definition of what is a place where workers are regularly present. The champagne sector is already playing a pioneering role in France in respect of the environment and respect for the health protection rules of neighbouring populations, with almost 54% of the AOC's surface areas receiving environmental certification. In addition, and as you have already indicated in your responses, with developments in spraying equipment, such as anti-driving nozzles, air pollution and the transfer of molecules into streams are greatly limited and, by extension, impacts on the environment, health and surrounding crops. The so-called ZNT nozzles are in particular approved by your ministry for non-treatment areas. I'll ask you four questions. Can you provide clear answers to farmers and wine growers on the information of residents and workers? Can you provide a definition of the places where workers are regularly present to enable a better understanding of the text and its application? Can you guarantee farmers and wine growers the continuation of the current system, i.e. the use of organically approved products and biocontrol products within the NPAs? Should we not reform the urban planning code so that the burden of planning the vegetated transition spaces between new constructions and agricultural areas is assumed by the manager and made compulsory?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u192	Thank you, colleagues, for sticking to two minutes. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u193	You express the astonishment and sometimes the criticisms of the agricultural world, but I repeat that prior information is an injunction of the Council of State as a court, not a decision of the executive or legislative that you represent. The decree specifies that the provisions in question will be defined in the framework of the famous ZNT charters that you know well. Moreover, this is in line with your question, that is to say, a pragmatic approach, adapted to the realities of land that can be very different from one territory to another. As for regular workers, they are workers who are not casual – this is a fairly clear practical definition. The decree defining this concept is as precise as possible. That is the meaning of the decision of the Council of State. As for your question about biocontrol, the answer is yes. Finally, with regard to your question about the urban planning code, I have already answered your colleague earlier.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u194	Mr Didier Le Gac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u195	In my turn, I would like first to point out, as you have just done, Mr.Minister, that if the subject of the TNAs comes back to the table today, it is not the Government's act, but rather because of a court decision. The departmental commitment charters for agricultural users of plant protection products were intended to guide the use of pesticides near homes. The Council of State has just considered that these charters disregarded the principle of informing the public, hence these new draft decrees and decrees which, it must be admitted, discontent almost everyone, environmental associations as well as farmers. The agricultural world has long been engaged in a process of reducing the use of plant protection products, and of all inputs in general. It is also a question of cost, especially at the moment. This is why farmers especially regret the fact that they do not take into account the reality of their practices and the new anti-driving devices which they use every day and which are able to measure the applied dose for each area of a plot, sometimes even to the nearest centimeter.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u196	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u197	The Directorate-General for Food (DGA) believes that these tools have an efficiency of at least 66% for the reduction of spray drifts, anti-driving systems which could be subsidized, it must be recalled, to the tune of 30% from 2020 and still recently by the France Recovery 2030 plan, which, as you know, the minister was the victim of its success. It is necessary to continue to differentiate between the regions, the crops and the products used, since the NTAs cannot be treated in the same way depending on whether they are in the grain zone, the arboreal zone or the wine-growing zone. Above all, I would like to draw your attention to the town planning documents. It would be interesting to predict and report from the time of the development, in particular, of PLUs, which plots or zonings with ZNT, in order to warn the inhabitants of a municipality whether or not a ZNT is present near the land they may be buying. Thus, it would not be up to the farmer to adapt to the PLU and adopt new practices, but rather to the municipalities to inform upstream the administration of the presence of ZNT.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u198	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u199	What measures could we take to improve the new provisions related to urban planning documents?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u200	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u201	It is precisely this pragmatism and this approach by territory, by product, by culture that led me to implement this review of distances by the MAHs themselves after this scientific evaluation by ANSES. Again, some MAs for CMR2 products have distances of 3 metres, others of 10 metres. So we can see that there are differences between the products. As far as the local planning plan is concerned, you have given the local authorities the opportunity to report the presence of a ZNT by voting on article 200 of the "climate and resilience" law. Secondly, the question of reciprocity – the other side of the property line – is very complex and we must continue to work on it – what we are doing, in collaboration with the agricultural profession and local and regional authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u202	Mr Jean-Claude Leclabart has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u203	Following the decisions of the Constitutional Council and the Council of State concerning the NTAs, the Government was requested to review the modalities for public consultation of the charters, to strengthen the information of residents and persons who may be in the vicinity of the treated fields, to provide protection measures for persons working in the vicinity of the areas of use of plant protection products, and to set greater non-treatment distances for products suspected of being the most dangerous. In this context, the Government has put in public consultation a draft decree and a draft decree adapting the arrangements for areas of non-treatment with plant protection products. The decree put in consultation responds to the requests of the Council of State by strengthening the principle of the charters of engagement as a tool for consultation at the local level. It strengthens this mechanism in its development, by providing that each charter must establish a system of prior information for present and residents. As regards the construction of new dwellings, it should be noted that the lotters are subject in their specifications laid down by certain communes, in particular from Normandy, to take account of this NZ within the perimeter of the area built with hedges, areas under grass maintained by the commune and again a smaller hedge to define the perimeter of the dwelling. For existing buildings, the problem is more difficult. As you have seen, the "Riparian NTA" charter, which was intended to open a dialogue, merely creates divisions, stigma and, alas, complicates the dialogue between the parties. With the support of the land development and rural settlement companies (SAFER), would it not be easier to have these areas of "zNT riparians" bought by the municipalities or intercommunalities through the PLU or the local intercommunal planning plan (PLUI), the latter becoming hiking trails, more commonly known as city tour trails?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u204	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u205	If they wish, communities can do so. In any case, we're not going to nationalize the ZNTs. Currently, we are looking at how the land of the NZs can be valued, in particular how to better include hedges – we can already do this, it depends on the width – in the areas of ecological interest (EIS), which are necessary under the common agricultural policy. Clearly, it is not the state that can intervene in the creation of footpaths. On the other hand, communities, either through local planning plans or local planning rules, or through the SAFER, can see how such arrangements can be put in place. Say otherwise, what you are proposing is already possible, but I am convinced that it is not up to the state to organize it. I repeat, the ZNTs are parts of land owned by farmers, it is private property and not areas where anyone can walk. It may be obvious, but it is important to remind him.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u206	Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u207	I would like to associate my question with my colleague Alain Perea, Member of Parliament for Aude, who is in isolation because of the covid. The cohabitation of areas of agricultural areas and urbanised areas has been the source of many questions in recent years relating to the continuation of agricultural activity and to the conflicts of use that may arise therefrom. A few months ago, these concerns were such that they resulted in a ban on the treatment by municipal decree of a mayor. The State has therefore decided to translate these questions into the obligation of farmers to define the logics of non-treatment areas in the vicinity of dwellings. The risk of introducing, with increasing requirements and requirements, non-phytosanitary treatment zones near inhabited areas would it not be to limit the agricultural vocation of a soil that is attached to an urbanised area? So, can you tell us what's going on with the implementation of this approach that had to be applied in each department? In order to overcome this duality between habitat and agriculture, would it not be more appropriate to adopt a comprehensive approach to land management, taking into account practice in agricultural areas, including the constraints in urban planning documents? Finally, farmers in my territory have also told me of the difficulties encountered in the context of accidental spraying of rivers. An urgent task of updating IGN cards was to be carried out. Can you tell us what's going on with this job?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u208	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u209	I recall that the decisions we made by decree and decree a few days ago follow the injunction of the Council of State; They are therefore not decisions of the Government, which has only complied, as it is naturally bound to do, with the injunction of that court – and it has done so in a timely manner. I insist on this because the word "State" in the "Council of State" sometimes suggests that it is the Government: no, it is indeed a judicial authority that has instructed the Government to make the changes recently presented. On the issue of urban planning, article 200 of the "climate and resilience" law already responds to your concern. As for the work of the IGN, I cannot answer you specifically. I usually answer precisely when I know, but when I don't know, I have the humility to recognize it. I therefore take note of your question and will send you some answers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u210	Mrs Muriel Roques-Etienne has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u211	Mrs Bénédicte Peyrol, unable to do so, asked me to ask you the following question. The Order of 27 December 2019 provides for a safe distance between homes and application areas receiving phytosanitary treatment. These buffer distances, known as "areas of riparian non-treatment", were the subject of a ruling by the Council of State in July 2021, according to which the State misinterpreted some of the ANSES's recommendations regarding the assessment of minimum distances. In the same judgment, the Council of State requires that charters be subject to a procedure of public consultation, not only of consultation with residents or their representatives. While consultation and broad public information is needed in an era in which participatory democracy must take its full place, there are still concerns about this. When, at the same time, everyone has expressed themselves on the minimum distance to be respected, what will be the place of scientific advice in drawing up the charters? How far will it be? From what opinion? With regard to products suspected of being dangerous, known as CMR 2, according to what timetable will ANSES be able to give an opinion and set a distance for each product? During the transitional phase, what support is envisaged for farmers? Is it planned to draw up, in the coming months, an inventory of possible areas in which farmers could find themselves? Another area of concern is that information for residents is referred back to the territories, which will define the most appropriate solution. Should we not be afraid of the differences in terms of terms from one department to another, which would lead neighbouring farmers, like those of the constituency of Bénédicte Peyrol, in the plain of Limagne between the Allier and the Puy-de-Dôme, to submit to such modality on such plot and to such other modality on a parcel of the neighbouring department? Finally, I come to the extension of protection measures to persons working in the vicinity of areas where plant protection products are used. One can salute this enlargement, which was missing in the original decree of 2019. On the other hand, the definition proposed to identify the persons in question remains very vague: by speaking of "workers regularly present in the vicinity of these treatments", is there a difference between whether they work outside or inside? Thank you, Minister, for the clarification you can provide to reassure farmers and residents.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u212	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u213	With regard to public consultation, the decree we have issued in response to the order of the Council of State sets out the rules and procedures to be followed by the charters. These are, in fact, consultations as provided for in the Environmental Code before any public decision affecting the environment – in article L.123-19-1. These consultations will naturally be organized by the prefectures and contributions can be collected electronically or by post. The arrangements for concertation on charters are obviously not limited to residents, but concern all citizens. I stress that the charters, contrary to what Mrs Peyrol says, do not define the minimum distances of products, which are established by science – in this case, the ANSES by way of an AMM or, where appropriate, by order. They are therefore not the subject of discussion in the development of the charters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u214	Mrs Marguerite Deprez-Audebert has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u215	The establishment of non-treatment areas is an additional protective measure against pesticide risks for residents and vulnerable people in the vicinity of agricultural fields. These laudable commitments are part of an ecological and health ambition that we have put into practice by law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet, called EGALIM law. Specifically, we aim to halve pesticides by 2025. The areas of non-treatment had been subject to judicial review: the decisions handed down last year by the administrative judge and the constitutional judge required the Government to review its copy. I would like to draw your attention to the very concrete difficulties faced by actors on the ground. In my department, a delegation of farmers, received in mid-January, informed me of the constraints specific to the Lower Pas-de-Calais country, similar to those of part of the Nord department. This territory is distinguished by the small size of the parcels that farmers exploit. Many houses have been built on the edge of the field, without pre-empting the questions about pesticides that we have today. As a result, the relative impact of setting up NTZs relative to the size of these small plots is greater than the impact on larger areas in other territories. The result is a loss of profitability for the operators concerned. In the Bethunian region, the loss reaches nearly 500 hectares of the 42000 hectares exploited. So there is the question of compensation, but not just: the NZs are becoming landfill areas. Weeds grow there while the problem lies in the shared responsibility of farmers, residents and territorial authorities to find solutions that are satisfactory to all. You are in some way forced to take a tour of France agrarian, Mr. Minister, but it is true that the diversity of the country gives rise to differences of interpretation on the issue of the ZNTs. Who's got to take care of it? What should be their management mode? How will you account for feedback, sometimes constructive, in the regulatory texts under preparation, so that they are adapted to the situation of each territory?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u216	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u217	The land considered to be NTAs is, as I have already said, private property. These are neither landfill areas for neighbours, nor land for their children's trampoline. Let us repeat it clearly: the use of a TZN by a person other than the owner simply amounts to settling in the land of others. As for small areas, we have launched several studies, particularly on the impact of drift limitations, by hedges or by walls, which are all the more relevant in the case of small plots. Finally, work is under way and they must be vigorously pursued to ensure that hedges located on NTAs – thus addressing the problem of illegal land use by a non-owner third party – are accounted for under CAP EIS more than they are today, often in terms of width.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u218	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u219	In 2020, more than 44,000 tonnes of pesticides were sold in France, while the decline in the use of these substances is a public health issue. They are often sprayed on polycultures, which inevitably raises the question of their dispersion in the environment. The residents, in particular, must be preserved from the toxic products used – this is the whole object of the non-treatment zones. Defined between 5 and 20 metres depending on the case, they give rise to a very current debate since the texts of December 2019, retold by the Council of State which had deemed them insufficiently protective concerning the so-called CMR 2 substances, have just been updated by the departments of the ministry in January. However, nothing has changed in the new version: the Government prefers to rely on a hypothetical revision of the AMMs by the ANSES – which will not happen – even though the evidence of the need to increase the distances of the ANSES is before its eyes. The two new texts were submitted for public consultation and literally did not undergo any change. No real and immediate action is taken and the recommendations of the Council of State are simply swept away or ignored. Worse, the definition of persons working in contact with pesticides and to be protected has been restricted: "regular workers" are now referred to without specifying what regularity is involved. The Paris court has just forced you to dissolve your political police, Demeter, created to stifle all dissonant voices, especially those calling for increasing the distances of the ZNT. The Council of State will also end up censoring your empty orders from any measure of real protection of people. Do you expect a further call to the order of justice, Minister, as on the Demeter cell, to finally take a protective order concerning the areas of non-treatment?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u220	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u221	I do not, of course, share your views on two issues. First of all, I replied to Dominique Potier and André Chassaigne, who, in their questions, had the courage to say that in the agricultural world, the transitions are very real. CMR 1 substances have decreased by 96% since 2016, and CMR 1 and 2 have decreased by a total of 40% over the same period. I know your attachment to science and reason; I cannot therefore understand why it is too difficult for you and other members of your group to simply state these facts – the figures I have just given are factual. Why not recognize that transitions exist, that they take place, and stop denigrating others? Basically, you are simply organizing the relocation of our agriculture.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u222	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u223	And the same ones, i.e. you, will then come screaming because we relocated agriculture. Then you will propose to nationalize agriculture – this story, we know it by heart, and it will repeat itself. Second point: the replies to the Council of State. I cannot let you say what you are saying: these answers have been clarified and substantiated in accordance with the Council's injunction. With regard to the term "regular workers" rather than "residents", it is only the translation of the European texts – I will pass on the relevant documents – which define the titles taken up by the Council of State. This is why the "regular" adjective was retained.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u224	Mr Loïc Prud'homme has the floor for his second question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u225	I always appreciate the fineness of your cartoons, minister,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u226	The hospital doesn't care about charity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u227	...but in the end, it almost became a game between us. I continue, however, as you call for reason: these new orders rely on an ANSES review of the MAHs to reassess the non-treatment areas. However, I recall that in 2019, ANSES itself admitted a lack of studies to assess pesticide exposure. It is therefore on the basis of a banal, not to say hollow, opinion of ANSES that your government has taken a decree providing for ridiculously small distances, finally retaliated by the Council of State. But reality catches up with you. Atmo-Nouvelle-Aquitaine, which carries out air analyses, was able to detect in the centre of Bordeaux residues of folpel, a fungicide used in vines located a few kilometres away. The synthesis report on the exposures of riparians to pesticides – EXPORIP – measured by Future Generations showed that large amounts of residues, including reprotoxics, had been found on the windows of riparians located 100 metres or more from crops. At a distance of less than 100 metres, pesticides are found among residents in 80% of cases. The PestiRiv study has not yet been launched that it is already the subject of a torpedoing in good standing on the part of the Conseil interprofessionnel des vins de Bordeaux (CIVB), which threatens to refuse to participate and puts pressure on the institutions, knowing well what results it will achieve. This factual, scientific reality, as you say, is well known to your ministry. So why push back protection measures again and again since it is done to the detriment of the health of our citizens, whether it is farmers or residents – yes, it is these two categories that we want to see protected? Are you assuming, minister, to play the watch against the evidence? That is my question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u228	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u229	My answer will be simple: never, ever, will I believe in the scientific expertise of unsuspecting France. Never!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u230	That's too bad!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u231	Let the president of this movement explain on a great listening channel that he knows about vaccines since he was born in the same city as Pasteur, it's a bit of coffee!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u232	That's not what he said!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u233	I do not see how this gives him any competence in this field!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u234	Answer my question!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u235	Let me give priority to the opinions of ANSES, the result of the work of true scientists who do not draw their expertise from their place of birth. I will give you an example: with regard to the AMM for CMR2, the agency itself has defined for some a distance of 3 meters and for others a distance of 10 meters. Relying on ANSES, and therefore on the advice of true scientists, to determine the necessary rules, molecule by molecule, is a good approach that the Government follows.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u236	In 2019, the opinion was for!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u237	No, in 2019, the opinion concluded that there was not enough data.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u238	Mr Fabien Lainé has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u239	In the preamble, I would like to point out that this majority does not go into agribashing, it is even the opposite, and I thank you, Minister – let us stress that, on recent Irish issues, you have been very quick to provide answers. This majority is fully aware of the constraints faced by farmers and the Government has always done its utmost to simplify their lives and enable them to live their fine jobs. We know clearly where we want to go, but we also know that the modalities of the ecological transition are complex and that the mechanisms we use are necessarily imperfect. Nevertheless, in the face of the well-identified and relatively well-assessed problem of the NTAs we are facing, I believe that we will succeed in putting in place effective solutions, accepted by all actors. The method of consultation which led to the departmental charters was praised and allowed to find points of balance – I would like to thank the Landes Chamber of Agriculture for its experience. However, the Council of State has requested that certain implementing rules be specified. In your opinion, should the NPAs be based on a principle of reciprocity in urban planning? As a former housing minister, you are well aware of the issue of urban sprawl: how can new constructions not yet reduce agricultural areas that can be cultivated? My second question concerns the information of residents. What modalities do you recommend? Do you think that plant health bulletins can be an effective tool in this area?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u240	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u241	Reciprocity refers to two main issues. First, it is taken into account in planning planning documents, whether they are PLUs or PLUIs. Article 200 of the Climate and Resilience Act gives the competent authority the opportunity to include the NPAs in these plans. This provision, your assembly has voted on it, and that is very good. Then there is the question of whether this possibility should be made an obligation, including for existing buildings. Clearly, it is more complicated because, as we can see, it affects property rights. However, this should not prevent us from working to determine which roads can be the right balance. Discussions are under way on this point as well as on the issue of compensation for the use of non-alternative molecules that undermine production capacities. With regard to prevenance, we chose to make it clear in the decree that, because of the diversity of the territories, its modalities had to be defined at the local level and therefore within the framework of the charters.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u242	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u243	To be pleasant to you, Minister, I will try to be quick. With non-treatment zones, a safe distance to be respected is set between agricultural land where plant protection products are used and surrounding areas, including residential areas. It is essential to make this system as simple as possible and to apply it with common sense, without overbidding. In my department of Marne, as you know, farmers and wine growers have always been open to consultation, as they have shown through the field dialogue which has led to the establishment of a precise and balanced departmental charter. My first question concerns the development and improvement of the agro-equipment that you have supported with strength and conviction, particularly in the context of the France Recovery Plan, which has been a real success. They promote optimal control of the use of plant protection products, thanks to precision sprayers and anti-driving nozzles. Our farmers are ready to make the necessary investments but we consider that such equipment must be taken into account in the determination by the ANSES of the NTAs. Can you commit to their recognition? My second question refers to the "climate and resilience" law, which aims to strengthen the fight against snacking on agricultural land. His article 200, as you mentioned, allows local elected officials to integrate the ZNTs into their urban planning documents. Should this not be mandatory when these plans are being revised?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u244	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u245	I have already answered your second question, Madam Member. This article of the "climate and resilience" law is indeed a step forward. However, there are questions about the ability of the local planning authority to transform this possibility into an obligation. We see the implications of such an issue and continue to work on it. It is necessary to support farmers in their purchases of equipment. We did so massively in the framework of the France Recovery Plan, since the amount of the financing line dedicated to agro-equipment amounted to more than 220 million euros. We know that some are so efficient that they can limit drifts beyond the 50% threshold set by EFSA in its guide. This involves working on this issue as well as on hedges and walls. In both cases, it is a question of whether we have sufficient scientific data to allow EFSA to amend its guide, the problem being that our own health authority cannot adapt the rules on distances until the European authority has made adjustments itself, since it relies largely on its opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u246	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u247	Since 2017, the Government has engaged with farmers in a policy aimed at reducing pesticide risks and limiting their use. For example, it provided for the adoption at local level of charters aimed at improving relations between residents and farmers and indicated that it wanted to continue working with the agricultural profession so that no farmer could be left without a solution. In the départements of Nord and Pas-de-Calais, which are heavily populated, a large part of the farms are located in peri-urban areas where the habitat is sometimes very diffuse, thus reducing the size of agricultural plots. The impact of the NPAs is very marked: the loss of agricultural land could be estimated at 5000 hectares. However, this did not prevent farmers from being open-minded when it came to working on the charter of engagement for plant protection users. However, they would like to see progress on several points. They seek economic compensation corresponding to the actual production capacity of the holdings. They draw our attention to the fact that any new urban development should include an area of withdrawal within the building perimeter so as not to penalize neighbouring agricultural plots. They would also like to know the results of the ANSES studies on walls, hedges and any other means of reducing the surface of the NTAs. Lastly, they would like to know whether, in the event of a legally secure agreement between farmers and residents, it would be possible to derogate from the obligation to establish withdrawal zones. Minister, being the last to ask questions, I am aware that you have already provided a lot of answers and I salute your patience as well as the quality of your listening.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u248	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u249	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll go back to the additional data on walls and hedges. We will have them at the end of 2022 and forward them to EFSA to discuss changes to its guide. The ANSES opinions will then take this into account for the MAs. These are very important works, launched for several months, to which we devote more than 500,000 euros of funding. Compensation is also a very important issue. In the texts we have published, there is a kind of annex that details the method and the modalities. A solution must be found to compensate farmers who use plant protection products for which there is no alternative. A review clause is scheduled for October 1st, the deadline for the submission of new MA review files to ANSES. Then we will see more clearly. With this in mind, we have already set the date for the first meeting on 4 February in order to deal with the issue of compensation and compensation in a very pragmatic way, with great strength and determination here too. Finally, I would like to thank you, Madam President, for allowing us to continue this debate beyond 20 hours.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u250	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-02-O1144.u251	Next meeting, tomorrow, at 9 a.m.: Bill, adopted by the Senate, to repeal obsolete laws for better legibility of the law; Proposal for a law to better combine employee share ownership and company transfer; Motion for a resolution on a fairer representation of the French in the National Assembly; Motion for a resolution on the establishment of the Territorial Adviser; Motion for a resolution on the development of citizen participation as a pillar of our democratic model; Proposal for a law to strengthen parity in the elected and executive functions of the communal bloc; Bill to reinstate mail-order voting; Proposal for a law on the progressive prohibition of nitrated additives in meat products. The meeting is adjourned.
