ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u1	The next item is the debate, pursuant to Article 34(1) of the Constitution, on the motion for a resolution to recognise endometriosis as a long-term condition (No. 4766).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u2	An important subject! This pathology affects many women.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u3	In the general debate, Mrs Clementine Autain has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u4	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u5	It'll be a good day!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u6	For Salome, it is to suffer neuropathic pain and use urinary probes because her bladder no longer works. For Sonia, it is a body that no longer supports its usual working posture and has imposed a reconversion. At the age of 45, while she is an expert in her field, she does internships, but she is exhausted. Employment unit no longer compensates him. And to ease her pain and get out of bed, she has to spend a lot of money. For Elodie, it is not to be able to play with her 7-year-old daughter, because her body resembles that of an 80-year-old. On several occasions, she applied for a disability from the Primary Health Insurance Fund (CPAM), which she was denied because, according to the medical consultant, her illness was not serious enough or disabled. For Priscilla, it means that at the age of 24 she must stop working, that she is disabled and that her priority as her daily life has become her health, her care, her medical appointments, her treatments. It is doing nine ketamine cures and undergo eight surgical operations within four years, to finally receive the implantation of a foreign body: a spinal neuromodulator that sends electrical impulses preventing pain signals from reaching the brain. The disease I'm talking about is endometriosis. It corresponds to the development of the uterine mucosa that is the endometrium, which dissipates outside the uterus to reach other organs. The suffering is numerous and can vary considerably from woman to woman. Some are folded in four for several days during their period. Others – or the same ones – experience digestive disorders, chronic fatigue, lumbar pain, and I pass it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u8	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u9	This diversity of symptoms plays an important role in the difficulty of diagnosing the disease and in underestimating the number of patients. However, we now know that at least one in ten women suffers from endometriosis in our country and throughout the world.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u10	And medicine doesn't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u11	Endometriosis is a hidden continent, both because of our lack of knowledge and because of the number of women who are victims of it. It is in fact so widespread that everyone here knows a woman who is fighting this disease, and some of us in this House necessarily suffer from it. However, it is necessary to know this, given that there is an average of seven years of medical error before endometriosis is diagnosed, with all the consequences that this implies on the severity of the symptoms. It is an incurable and progressive disease on which treatments only act in part. It is multifactorial and, I would like to remind you, because we do not hear it often enough, it sometimes develops as a result of sexual violence, in a psychosomatic way. This disease has been known to scientists since the 19th century, but it took time to begin to recognize it. How many women have been answered, when they confide in this disease, and when it is not obvious to the extent that it touches the intimate and unfortunately still taboo subject of menstruation: "it is in your head", "you are always tired", or "it is normal to have pain when you have his menstruation"?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u13	These small guilty sentences say the denial of the disease and add to the pain of endometriosis that of contempt and condescendence. If, I repeat, the intensity of suffering varies enormously from one patient to another, ranging from pain for two days a month to total disability, it is assumed that this disease is invalidating for 80% of the women affected and causing fertility problems for 40% of them. These figures point to the urgent need for important and protective institutional support for all those who experience this ordeal. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups and on some benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] It will have taken until 2020 for the disease to be included in the medical education program. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not wait any longer for it to be included in the list of long-term diseases (LDA 30): this is what we are asking for with this motion for a resolution. I do not wish to debate the announcements made by the President of the Republic two days ago, because I am pleased that our motion for a resolution resonated until the state summit. However, I recall that Emmanuel Macron's announcements on this issue in 2017 have not been followed by concrete measures and I note that the plan just announced does not have any specific timetable or budget. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] But the urgency obliges us and the word – communication –, as essential as it is in the process of recognizing the disease, will not suffice. That is why I very much hope for a unanimous vote in this House today. Of course, the Minister of Solidarity and Health, it is appropriate to make efforts to develop therapeutic research, which is completely underfunded and often financed by the associations of patients themselves. And if endometriosis is to be the subject of a national strategy to the extent of the medical emergency found – I agree – we cannot continue to ignore its institutional recognition and the support of the victims. From this point of view, the entry of endometriosis in the ALD 30 list is the key: this is what most associations and women who are victims of endometriosis demand. Indeed, we must realize that women suffering from endometriosis must now go through a real journey of the fighter, first to get diagnosed – as I said earlier – and then to have their rights recognized. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that 82% of the women interviewed are reluctant to ask their doctor for sick leave during crises, particularly because of the loss of wages caused by waiting days.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u14	That's right! Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u15	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u16	And 36% of patients report going to work despite symptoms they feel unhappy. In 2018, it was only 4500 women with endometriosis – out of millions, you understood me – who managed to have their rights recognized at the DLA, according to fairly opaque criteria and with great disparities depending on the territory and sensitivity of the attending physician. But what happens to all the other patients? Those that go so far as to faint under the effect of the pains associated with the disease. Those who are caught at the throat by the financial cost of their care, which, I said, can be considerable. Those who are unable to take sick stops are forced to go through their sufferings and to wear a smile mask until the end of their working day. I categorically refuse to stand behind the idea that the real and only question is research, even though, as I said, it is important. Endometriosis must be fought on all fronts and this implies that we act firmly on what we have control of. Today, on Thursday 13 January 2022, we can create a floor of rights for women victims of this disease,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u18	...engaging the Government in the process of its institutional recognition. We can say that recent announcements must be translated into concrete provisions as soon as possible. We can encourage the Government to take a simple step that would have an immediate click effect or, to use a phrase used a few days ago by a young woman with the disease that I know and that I salute, which would have a "virtuous snowball effect" that would change the daily lives of so many patients. I repeat, the adoption of this motion for a resolution would make it possible to include endometriosis in the list of long-term diseases, known as ALD 30. In concrete terms, this would open up the right to 100% care, to sick leave and to work-time arrangements. Currently, patients must take a specific approach to their treating physician to expect reimbursement of their care, without any certainty of obtaining it. For low-paid women, the most precarious and the poorest, things are obviously even more difficult to live with. This is why systematically considering endometriosis as an LFA is also a matter of equality and social justice. In the current state of regulation, this disease may indeed be an additional factor of precarisation. To help women live this ordeal better, I believe that this reform is truly indispensable – I say it solemnly and with a certain emotion. We can change the situation by offering all women who suffer from endometriosis rights to live better. We can ensure that the administration is no longer an obstacle, but an ally. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue goes beyond political divisions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u19	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u20	This motion for a resolution, defended by the ENDOmind association, has already received the support of 300 parliamentarians, and we know that 91% of the French are in favour of this measure. It is in this spirit of concord that, on behalf of my group, France, I defend it before you. [[Applause on all benches]] This step forward, which the associations, the victims and their relatives encourage us to do as quickly as possible, represents a giant leap for millions of women. It is only to them that we will have to think about the moment we decide; I am sure that this is what each and every one of you will do, because it is to these associations and women that we urgently need this reform.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u21	Mrs Marie-George Buffet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u22	There are still many taboos in our society and they are of particular concern to women. Talking about rules without making it a shameful subject is not yet self-evident – even though society has made progress in this area. That is why I think it is very useful that, today in this House, we are talking about a disease that affects one in ten women in our country. Endometriosis is characterized by fragments of uterine mucosa, called endometrial cells, which, instead of being destroyed by the immune system, implant and then proliferate into neighbouring organs. It is a very painful disease, sometimes disabling and still poorly diagnosed in France. For women to dare to talk about what affects them, they must first be certain that their words will not be taken lightly. But how do we deal with a subject that is still so often you in our society? Endometriosis is a real public health problem. I would also like to thank the Group of the European People's Party for submitting this motion for a resolution. This is a serious problem: this pathology has important consequences for women, including in their intimate lives. It is a disease detected with an average delay of seven years: seven years of suffering, during which the causes are sometimes not sought and the pains are too often trivialized; seven years during which symptoms can worsen and women's quality of life deteriorate. There is a real urgency to take action. The motion for a resolution under consideration would make it possible to take an important step towards institutional recognition of this disease and a much better health care for patients. Endometriosis is a complex disease, which takes different forms depending on the women affected. If, in about one third of cases, the disease does not develop or stagnate without significant symptoms, some experience disabling manifestations, which hinder their daily lives. Women still carry out most of the household chores and care for their children while, for the most part, performing a trade. Many people know what Nicole Brais, a researcher at Université Laval de Québec, calls the mental charge, which she defines as "this work of management, organization and planning which is at the same time intangible, unavoidable and constant, and which has as its objectives the satisfaction of each person's needs and the proper functioning of the residence". It is necessary to imagine what this burden represents when, each month, for several days, endometriosis causes disabling pain, eating disorders, urinary disorders or chronic fatigue. We are not talking about temporary pains that treat themselves with paracetamol, but about those that soothe themselves only with powerful analgesics, even morphines. While many women with endometriosis find it difficult to work during their period, the majority of them do not dare to ask for a work stoppage. Lack of recognition of the disease is a brake that forces women to take on all the tasks they have to do, while keeping the pain in check. Among the most dramatic consequences, between 30 and 40 per cent of women with endometriosis experience considerable difficulties in having a child. Many should use medically assisted reproduction (AHR) or in vitro fertilization (IVF). On the psychic level, however, infertility is terrible for women who wish to give life. Physically, the treatments are very difficult and often require several attempts before functioning. The need to consult several specialists and the chronic and disabling nature correspond to criteria for inclusion on the list of long-term exonerating conditions. In this respect, this motion for a resolution seems legitimate and appropriate in order to bring about the recognition of this particularly disabling pathology. Women who suffer from it know how long and difficult their journey was. We have the opportunity and the duty to facilitate it for future generations. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR, LR, Dem and FI groups, as well as on a few benches of the LaREM group]] That is why the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left supports this motion for a resolution and invites the Members sitting on all the benches of this House to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u23	Mrs Bénédicte Pételle has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u24	Today, and I thank Clementine Autain for this, our assembly is looking at a motion for a resolution aimed at combating endometriosis, a condition which women suffer and which has all too often been an invisible evil. One in ten women suffers from endometriosis, a chronic inflammatory disease of the female genital tract, to this day incurable. In almost half of cases, it affects fertility and can go as far as sterility situations. Endometriosis causes significant loss of blood and severe pain at the time of menstruation, as well as during sexual intercourse; These pains can be confined to the pelvic area, but also extend to the legs or lumbars. Endometriosis affects women in their daily life, sexual life, social life and working life. As the author of this motion for a resolution has pointed out, it takes an average of seven years to make a diagnosis, during which women live a true journey of the combatant. Many testify that they are unable to work during crises. According to Alice Romerio's study, one third of the women interviewed leave their jobs quickly to return home. On Tuesday, the President of the Republic unveiled a national strategy to take care of this disease in all its dimensions and to accompany women on a daily basis. It follows the action plan defined by Agnès Buzyn in 2019, whose health crisis delayed implementation. In March 2021, the Government entrusted Euro MP LaREM Chrysoula Zacharopulou, a gynaecologist who devoted a large part of his professional career to this disease, a mission in this direction. As Emmanuel Macron announced on Tuesday, the strategy will include a national programme to put France at the forefront of research on this pathology; funding will be based on the France 2030 plan. It also provides for the installation, in each region, of channels of care dedicated to endometriosis and the care of patients, with at least one centre of recourse and expertise. Finally, it will aim – this is a crucial issue – to better train and raise the awareness of health professionals, in order to diagnose the disease earlier and to create a real endometriosis reflex, to put an end to territorial disparities. The group La République en marche welcomes these announcements, which respond to ills too long remained taboo in our society. In this regard, I would like to refer to the pioneering and trans-party work that the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities for men and women, chaired by Marie-Pierre Rixain, has carried out. In February 2020, Laëtitia Romeiro Dias and Bénédicte Taurine presented an information report on menstruation, which makes 47 recommendations in the fields of education, product security and public health. The fight against endometriosis is one of the priorities. This fight is part of the continuity of the measures we have taken since 2017 to improve women's health, sexual health and, more broadly, equality between women and men. I would like to mention a few emblematic examples. We have opened medically assisted reproduction (AWP) to women's couples and single women, and doubled the length of paternity leave to 28 days since 1 July 2021. In the Social Security Funding Bill (PLFSS) for 2018, we created a single consultation to prevent breast cancer and cervical cancer for women aged 25 years, 100% covered by health insurance. In the last PLFSS, we voted for the treatment of 100% of women's contraception up to the age of 25 and generalized the long sexual health prevention consultation, which will now be addressed to both girls and boys, up to the age of 25. With the law to improve the health system through trust and simplification, by our colleague Stephanie Rist, we have expanded the duties of midwives to strengthen their pivotal role in women's health and to improve access to care in all territories. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, FI and GDR groups]] As President Emmanuel Macron pointed out, endometriosis is a social problem. With your text, you propose to strengthen the fight against this disease. The La République en marche group will be at your side to adopt it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u25	Finally!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u26	Bravo! Auttain to the Ministry of Health!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u27	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u28	That has been said, I repeat: in France, endometriosis affects almost one in ten women of childbearing age – between 1.5 and 2.5 million women would be affected. This common, evolutionary, incurable gynaecological disease is related to the abnormal presence of tissues similar to those of the uterine mucosa, also known as endometrium, outside the uterus. Instead of evacuating, these tissues migrate to other organs, which can cause painful lesions and risk of infertility. Endometriosis is a very difficult disease to live on every day. It affects the lives of affected women socially, professionally and economically, including chronic fatigue, loss of confidence in them, anxiety, questioning their children's plans, absenteeism at work. The symptoms and consequences of this chronic disease vary widely, making diagnosis difficult, especially because there is no screening technique. While some solutions, such as hormonal treatment and surgical procedures, may help alleviate patient pain, there is no effective treatment to date to permanently relieve these women. Endometriosis is still too little known to the general public and the medical profession. Only a few scientific studies have been carried out on this subject, which elicits divergent opinions within the medical community. This lack of knowledge leads to considerable delays in diagnosis and management. On average, endometriosis is identified with seven years – seven years! - late. During these seven years, the women concerned remain unanswered as to the pathology that causes them to suffer; It is seven years of therapeutic questioning and wandering, marked by regular medical consultations, which often do not allow to put a word on evil. Endometriosis has become a subject of society and speech is gradually freed. Over the past four and a half years, Members have taken initiatives in this area. Everywhere in France, the affected women express themselves in order to witness their suffering, to share them with other women, in particular through national associations; At the same time, they try, through their testimony and life experience, to help health professionals understand the disease and convince them to take it better into consideration. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Brigitte Kuster also applauds]] The purpose of this motion for a resolution, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, is to recognise endometriosis as a long-term condition. It echoes several parliamentary initiatives taken since the beginning of this Parliament, including a bill that I tabled and registered in July 2020, to make the fight against endometriosis the major national cause 2021, for better institutional recognition. Véronique Louwagie was heavily involved in this project. The text we are looking at, thanks to the Members of the House of Representatives of France, which I thank them for this, is another step towards better recognition and above all towards the management of endometriosis, by its inclusion in the list of long-term illnesses. It can only reach consensus on all the benches of this assembly and the Republican Group will of course vote for its adoption. But after this first initiative, this first parliamentary stage, we will have to go further by deploying a comprehensive national health plan to combat endometriosis,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u29	You're right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u30	... with a true accompaniment course ranging from early detection to management of the pathology. This includes the training of doctors and health professionals, the funding of research and the creation of dedicated territorial centres. Since 2017, in terms of public health policy, nothing concrete has been done about endometriosis. I deplore it and want to stress it. After a failed attempt in the spring of 2019, the Government launched in March 2021 a mission to develop the national strategy to combat endometriosis. Opportunism or chance, Tuesday, two days before the consideration of this motion for a resolution by our Assembly, the President of the Republic announced on social networks the deployment of this strategy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u31	A coincidence, certainly...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u32	Good time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u33	[[Applause on the benches of the LR, FI and GDR groups]] By political calculation probably, Parliament is once again downgraded, whereas for four and a half years, I repeat, regardless of our political affiliation, we have been fighting on the benches of this House to advance this cause; So far, the majority had always opposed silence. Let everyone take responsibility and vote on this text, so that we can move forward together!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u34	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u35	This motion for a resolution concerns a silent, invisible and complex disease, which is ruining the daily lives of nearly 3 million women, or about 10 % of those of childbearing age. It is endometriosis, a taboo pathology that affects the most intimate aspect of a woman's life, namely her gynaecological health. To debate within our Chamber a disease such as endometriosis, which affects so many of our fellow citizens, is a first. That is why I thank Mrs Clémentine Autain for giving priority to this issue in the context of her group's parliamentary niche. Indeed, to evoke a chronic pathology of the female genital tract in our assembly, in public session, is not common. Let us take into account that one in ten women live daily with pains, often unbearable, that they often have to keep quiet because the discomfort caused is important. These disabling gynaecological pains have a significant impact on the activity of the women concerned, whether they are students or in working life, and even within their couple. Indeed, this disease is usually accompanied by abundant bleeding, pain during intimate intercourse, chronic fatigue and, at worst, infertility. The first step in the fight against endometriosis is therefore to break the taboo around it. An awareness is beginning to emerge in society, thanks to the commitment of patients and doctors as well as the testimonies of well-known personalities. Many parliamentarians have also mobilized in recent months. I welcome on this point the rostrum of my colleague David Corceiro, co-signed by many Members of Parliament, doctors and personalities committed to this disease – many men are thus mobilized for the cause of women, this deserves to be stressed. The political field has taken up the issue since the last presidential campaign, through Emmanuel Macron. In 2019, Agnès Buzyn outlined an initial plan of action to improve the care provided to women and to combat the lack of awareness of this disease. Although the pandemic has unfortunately slowed down its implementation, the target initially set has not been abandoned and the plan has materialised with the submission of the report commissioned by the Minister of Health Olivier Véran to the MEP and gynaecologist Chrysoula Zacharopulou. We now have a precise roadmap presented yesterday by the President of the Republic, which will allow the launch of a national strategy based on three axes: knowledge of the disease and its causes to develop treatments and improve the care of patients; the development of a real network of accessible care throughout the territory, to put an end to the miscarriages of diagnosis that last for years and allow any woman, wherever she lives, to be properly cared for; Finally, the democratization of the knowledge of endometriosis wherever it is necessary: in school, in the world of work but also in the medical sector, which sometimes suffers from a certain concern regarding gynaecological diseases. All this will require substantial and constant financial resources, but also genuine political leadership. The aim will be to build on the investments planned in the France 2030 plan and to mobilise health actors in the territories; I am thinking in particular of the ARS – regional health agency – Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, which has already started this work. It will also involve placing patient associations and medical professions, from gynaecologists to midwives, at the heart of the steering process in order to achieve efficient management. While the lack of knowledge of endometriosis remains a pregnancy, this disease can lead to dramatic consequences when it is diagnosed late, and is a chronic condition of which it is impossible to cure completely, its recognition as a long-term condition must of course be considered seriously. Of course, today this disease can be recognized as a long-term condition, 31 that is, outside the ALD 30 list. This implies that only those cases considered to be the most serious receive full reimbursement for the care undertaken. Here we touch upon the complexity of this disease, which is manifested to very different degrees according to women. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] There are obvious gaps in consistency and readability in the current LFA system; We will therefore have to accompany regulatory advances as best we can in order to respond to women suffering from this terrible disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u36	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u37	While endometriosis was first observed in 1860, it took until 2020 for a presentation of the disease to be included in the medical student program. Millions of women affected by this disease must not wait any longer to be recognized, understood and cared for. Endometriosis is a chronic and progressive gynaecological disease. It is invisible and kills; she is very handicapped; She is incurable and unknown, while she touches one in ten women. Some 80 per cent of women affected by the disease experience a limitation in the performance of their daily tasks; 40% of them have fertility problems, and 20% of them coexist with one or more others. Despite its chronic nature and its serious consequences in the family, social and professional life of women, endometriosis is not recognized as a disabling disease in France, and is not included in the ALD 30 list, which provides, inter alia, for care and treatment of sickness and work arrangements. I have signed this motion for a resolution in order to recognise the greatly invalidating nature of this disease and to give endometriosis the institutional recognition that women with it need. I fully support this text, because the addition of endometriosis to the ALD 30 list would allow patients to benefit from better care, thus reducing the inequalities, particularly geographical, they suffer. Beyond this institutional recognition, it is a great national policy that must be pursued around endometriosis. Too few women know the existence of this gynaecological pathology; All others thus take the risk of their condition getting worse. It is therefore necessary to increase prevention by thinking of an awareness campaign with the general public. With diagnostic delays of an average of seven years – unbearable error – awareness must also be directed to medical personnel, through better training of general practitioners, gynaecologists, nurses, gastrologists, urologists and radiologists, in order to improve and speed up diagnoses and ensure better care for patients. There are currently too few scientific studies devoted to endometriosis: therefore, a huge effort must also be made in the field of research, in order to find definitive treatment. It is also necessary to establish a plan to support patients through a single approach, so that patients receive appropriate care; Reference centres should be established for the treatment of those affected by the most severe forms of endometriosis. All these actions must be coordinated with the associations of patients – I am thinking in particular of ENDOmind, which carries out remarkable work – as with healthcare professionals, of course. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups. – Mrs Lamia El Aaraje also applauds]] As you will have understood, the Socialist and Related Group thanks the group La France insoumée, in particular Clementine Autain, for this initiative and will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution in order to give endometriosis the necessary visibility and to gradually lift the obstacles resulting from the lack of awareness of the disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u38	Mrs Lise Magnier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u39	"Endometriosis. It's not a women's problem, it's a social problem. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the President of the Republic for speaking this week on this subject. Yes, if endometriosis is an exclusively female disease, it affects the whole of our society, because it has consequences for the youngest women, adolescent girls, couples, families, relatives, colleagues. As you said, dear Clementine Autain, this pathology causes about 2 million women to suffer in their flesh in France. This disease, whose symptoms vary, results, depending on its stage, in abundant bleeding, severe pain, sleep disorders, inability to stand, malaise or even depressive conditions. In this way, women affected – one in ten women – see their daily lives hurt, whether in their professional, romantic or relational lives. This disease is a problem that affects all of us, as it remains the primary cause of infertility in our country. Yet, while it is a major public health problem – massive even – it is striking to see how endometriosis remains an invisible suffering. We continue to educate our young girls according to an archaic and intolerable principle: "You are a woman, you have your menstruation, you have a pain, it is normal. No, let's say loud and clear, it's not normal to suffer just because you're a woman! The consequences of this lack of recognition are serious. In terms of screening, first of all: the shame of talking about its painful rules, the lack of awareness among the general public and the training of health professionals leads to a quasi-systematic delay in diagnosis. On average, endometriosis is thus detected after seven years of medical error, seven years during which the disease evolves, often irreversibly settling in women's bodies. The taboo also affects the research. While pathology is not new, endometriosis research is still in its infancy, as is the case for all menorragia. There is currently no treatment to permanently defeat the disease. The main therapeutic solutions are limited to the reduction of pain, but do not eliminate it; The others are very invasive. It is also a subject of society that refers to problems of unequal access to care and lack of diagnosis. When the disease has grown too much, access to the path of medical aid to procreation is unfortunately still far too complicated in rural areas far from the metropolises. Worse, when the disease has reached an advanced stage, due to lack of knowledge of other existing techniques and treatments, surgery is sometimes the only solution proposed, while it is traumatic. The atlas of variations in medical practices reveals that some rural departments have an average rate of recourse to hysterectomy much higher than the French average, of 192 per 100,000 women. Every year, it is 20-25000 women who undergo this traumatic operation, even though this act could have been avoided if the diagnosis had been made earlier and the professionals had been better trained in conservative surgery respectful of the woman. Endometriosis is therefore an extremely important subject and I sincerely thank our colleagues in the La France group for putting it on the agenda of their parliamentary niche. The announcements of the President of the Republic provide the necessary answers to this problem, as part of the very first plan to combat endometriosis. They allow France to be one of the first countries to make this disease a real subject of public health. They are based on five pillars: public awareness, training of health professionals, improved screening, territorial equity in access to care, and research development. This motion for a resolution, which I myself have signed, provides an additional and necessary response, with endometriosis included in the ALD 30 list. This will allow women to benefit from more appropriate care, but also to receive more timely treatment and care that is better reimbursed. We owe it to them. [[Applause on the SOC, FI, and GDR benches. – Ms. Michèle Crouzet also applauds]] There is an urgent need to break the taboo and ensure that our sisters, daughters and friends can openly talk about their sufferings and benefit from appropriate and personalized care. As you will have understood, the Group of the European People's Party will support this motion for a resolution with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u40	Mrs Valérie Six has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u41	"Endometriosis is ruining my life. These words are those of Amélie, a young woman with endometriosis, and resonate for many sick people. They say a lot about the physical, social and psychological consequences of this chronic endometrial disease. Beyond suffering, it is to medical error and lack of recognition that these women face. This is a true journey of the fighter, faced with insufficiently trained healthcare professionals, but also with lengthy and inappropriate care procedures. Nor should we forget the stigma and loss of economic opportunity generated, because endometriosis is a real handicap. It directly affects women's ability to work and study, with consequences for their social status, careers and families. That is why I am pleased to see us gathered on this motion for a resolution, which focuses on the issue of labour by inviting the Government to include endometriosis on the list of long-term illnesses. This recognition is necessary, as absences from the workplace for reasons of care have concrete financial consequences, with a series of waiting days in the event of repeated sick leave. Poorly understood by the employer and colleagues, they lead to stigmatization in the workplace, and can hinder career advancement. In the worst case, when the person can no longer work, they find themselves without resources. In addition to 100 per cent coverage by health insurance, inclusion in the LFA list will lead to a better institutional recognition of endometriosis, which is important since today there is a high rate of non-recourse. By renunciation, many patients would not apply for an off-list LDA and a large majority would give up asking their doctor to stop sick during periods of pain. Listing on the LFA list will standardize this disease by placing it in a concrete legal framework. However, this measure will not be sufficient. First, because without diagnosis, any recognition of the disease is futile. The delay in the medical world on the subject is a problem on which we must move forward. As such, the national strategy launched in March 2021 by Minister Olivier Véran is necessary, but it must go much further and, above all, much faster. On the one hand, the spread of endometriosis injuries is irreversible and it is simply unacceptable to have to wait seven years to be diagnosed. On the other hand, there is an urgent need to improve prevention, when it is known that this disease has recognized genetic factors. To this end, concrete proposals have been made by the associations and the axes are well identified. First of all, emphasis must be placed on the initial and continuing training of the medical profession at all levels, in order to improve the detection and management of symptoms. Next, an endometriosis-specific care path must be created. The establishment of centres of expertise dedicated to its management appears to be a necessity. Finally, our country must move forward on research. Last August, Oxford University discovered a gene that could be responsible for the most serious forms of the disease, opening the door to treatment. Progress is therefore possible and we must be on the front line. So we need resources and a strategy. These proposals are reflected in the very recent communication of the President of the Republic on the national strategy to combat endometriosis. But I cannot help but worry about this accumulation of announcements: let us remember that this strategy was announced as early as 2017, with the only concrete result being the submission of a report. When will these elements really be introduced? How? With what means? What about the absence, in these statements, of the mention of the inclusion of endometriosis on the list of ALDs? Couldn't we go even further? For example, women under the age of 25 now benefit from the full treatment of the pill; Why not open it to women with endometriosis, for whom the pill is the only solution to avoid pain to date? We expect more; Above all, we no longer have time to procrastinate. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Albane Gaillot also applauds]] We thank the Group of the European People's Party, in particular Clementine Autain, for putting this motion for a resolution into debate – a debate we are looking forward to. The IDU and independent group will vote with conviction in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u42	Mrs Jeanine Dubie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u43	The body of women feeds a paradox: that of being omnipresent and yet invisible, object of all appropriations and yet place of all taboos. Whether it is pregnancy, menstruation or contraception, women's sexual health as a whole has for too long been relegated to the private sphere, rather than being considered a medical and social issue; It's still a long way to go. In the case of endometriosis, social pressure, moral judgments and dangerous non-declarations have long forced women to silence. Thus, endometriosis was discovered in 1860 and yet its appearance in the public debate dates back only a few years. But we must be able to assert it loud and clear: no, this suffering is not normal, it is not annoyed and can have important consequences on women's health, but also on their daily lives and career paths. The opportunity to express this pain is certainly the first step in improving women's lives. The figures speak for themselves: one in ten women suffers from endometriosis, but it takes on average seven years to diagnose the disease, seven years of wandering, suffering and misunderstanding. The first of the obstacles to be overcome is that of screening. Some 2.5 million women are reported to have endometriosis, but there is concern that this figure may be underestimated due to the difficulty of obtaining a diagnosis. I also insist that endometriosis is not the only gynecological pathology; Systematized early detection would help to better detect these diseases and increase women's awareness of them. This will only be possible with better training of professionals, as these diseases are often unknown or poorly managed. The second obstacle concerns the accompaniment of women, because it is a chronic, evolutionary disease that is not cured. The first issue is obviously support for research, which is insufficient. We need to better understand this disease and its causes, and find therapeutic treatments that do not yet exist. Support for research is also important for those who feed a parenting project, since endometriosis is the primary cause of infertility. We take note of the national strategy presented yesterday by Emmanuel Macron, which is based in particular on the launch of an extensive epidemiological study; It's a prerequisite. The second issue is the medical care of patients, currently insufficient and disparate. According to this strategy, each region will have to identify territorial channels of care, with at least one centre of recourse and expertise. Again, the Libertés et territoires group supports this objective, which will help to guide patients better, even if we regret the lateness of all these announcements, which have been expected since 2017. At the same time, it remains to be seen when and how this action plan will be implemented, and with what means. Moreover, it remains insufficient, as the emphasis is not placed on the invalidation of this disease in the social and professional life of the women concerned. That is why this motion for a resolution, tabled on the initiative of Clementine Autain – whom I sincerely thank – and of her group that placed it on the agenda of her niche, is necessary. It aims to recognize endometriosis as a long-term condition. The motion for a resolution by Mr Véronique Louwagie in September 2020, which I had co-signed, had the same objective. I am also thinking of Stéphane Viry's bill to make it a major national cause in 2021. Today, endometriosis can only be recognized as ALD 31, i.e. off-list. However, patients who receive this recognition represent a small proportion of the women concerned. The criteria vary from department to department; These territorial inequalities are not acceptable. The inclusion on the ALD 30 list would address an issue of equality and thus make the care of systematic care. The other advantage of ALD recognition is the evolution of women in the professional environment. Many have been penalized in the advancement of their careers because of this chronic disabling disease. Recognizing it as a long-term condition would allow a reduction in the waiting period for work stoppages, as well as job adjustments where possible. More generally, the inclusion of endometriosis on the list of LFAs meets a need for institutional recognition, the only one that would allow women to no longer be opposed to the misunderstanding of some, whether in the medical or professional environment. But we have to go further! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel also applauds]] Let us hope that the commitment of the President of the Republic to define a national strategy becomes operational as soon as possible and is not only an announcement effect. The Liberties and Territories Group will support the motion for a resolution, which many colleagues in the group have co-signed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u44	Mr. Sébastien Chenu was registered, but he is clearly absent. The rules for the allocation of speaking time give Mrs Albane Gaillot the opportunity to speak. Mrs Albane Gaillot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u45	Good news, the second one in one day!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u46	Fascists aren't here today!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u47	They don't care about women!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u48	We all know the importance of talking about endometriosis and of giving it the necessary attention and means. In principle, I would like to welcome the Government's recent announcements in support of the fight against endometriosis: the launch of a first inter-ministerial steering committee on 14 February and a long-standing national strategy to combat endometriosis. These announcements, although late, are a first step in the right direction. I would like to join my colleagues in asking not only for a more precise timetable, before the end of the quinquennium of course, but also for substantial financial resources for the successful implementation of this national strategy. We will follow closely the work of the interdepartmental steering committee and ensure that the national strategy to combat endometriosis is not emptied of its meaning. Yes, endometriosis deserves to be better known and diagnosed; It deserves research funding and access to care is the same everywhere. But the key demand of actors and actresses on the ground, parliamentarians and women, namely the recognition of endometriosis as a long-term condition, must not be ruled out. I therefore come to the heart of the motion for a resolution, whose clarity and accuracy I welcome. I would like to thank our colleague Clementine Autain for bringing this matter up and allowing us to debate it today. Endometriosis should be included in the LDA list. The solution is clear, unequivocal. Endometriosis health expenses must be covered at 100%, with a reduction in the waiting period. These solutions have been known and hammered for years. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Frédérique Tuffnell also applaud]] While 1.5 to 4.2 million French women live with endometriosis in suffering, after years of medical error, while this incurable disease would affect 80% of them on a daily basis and 49% in their careers, one wonders why nothing has been done before. Probably because it is a disease that affects women and our suffering, often of gynaecological origin, is constantly denied and underestimated. After centuries of public policy in disfavor of women, of men's medicine for men, it is up to us to make the voices of these millions of women heard. I shall therefore vote enthusiastically for this motion for a resolution; Women's health care is not optional.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u49	The general discussion is closed. On the motion for a resolution, I am seized by the Group of the European People's Party (France) of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for giving us the opportunity to discuss the management of this chronic disease, which is insufficiently known and yet very frequent, which is readily said to be invisible and which is old, namely endometriosis. It emerged a few decades ago – not as a disease, since it has been known since the 19th century that patients suffer from it, but as a condition visible to society – and has taken on an increasingly important place. Why? Because the word has gradually freed itself, because the research has progressed and the knowledge of the ins and outs of this chronic disease has advanced. You said it very well, ladies and gentlemen who spoke, and I will not repeat all of your comments. This is the situation, unfortunately still too classic in our country and in most Western countries, of this teenage girl who has terrible rule pains and to whom we say: "It's normal, it's the rules. This is the situation of this high school girl, forced to go to the infirmary for two or three days a month, sometimes without the possibility of suspecting that she has a chronic disease that can be treated. It is the situation of this young woman who ends up consulting doctors – her general practitioner, or others –, telling them of the prevailing and disabling pains. With an average seven-year delay in diagnosis in our country, we're going to tell him for several years: "We're going to see, maybe we're going to do an ultrasound, it's pain, but it's hormonal. This is the story of this woman, of age to practise her profession, forced to stop working from time to time because she has too much pain, or to go to work with the ball in the belly and have a very bad day. It is the history of these women who realize that they have been suffering from this chronic disease for years at the time of taking care of a path of infertility – it is indeed the first cause of this problem. What to do with this pathology? This has been very well said and this is the whole purpose of the national plan that the President of the Republic wanted, following a mission that I entrusted almost a year ago to a specialist: the MEP, but also and above all gynaecologist, Chrysoula Zacharopulou. She's surrounded herself a lot; the services of my ministry have accompanied the work of the mission, in connection with professionals from all over the country, with researchers and associations of patients. It is fundamental to listen to the words of the sick; the associations are structured, well organized and perfectly aware of the ins and outs of this disease. Basic research needs to be developed because there are still many questions about the origins of the disease. Does she have a genetic origin? Can we, in the long run, consider gene therapy? There is also a need to develop research on treatments. There are currently hormonal, analgesic and, sometimes, surgical treatments, when flanges have developed in the peritoneum and have invaded other organs, causing an even greater handicap. Fortunately, this is not the rule, but it often happens. There is also a need to develop research on diagnostic methods, which are known to be evolving. These means are ultrasound, which can be endovaginal in certain situations, and MRI – magnetic resonance imaging –, experts tell us. But radiologists must be able to read the abdominal MRI of a patient suffering from endometriosis; It's not necessarily within the reach of all radiologists. All this implies a very precise, very specific, hyperspecialised path of diagnosis and management, which in my opinion requires a structuring of the management in the territories so that there is not a French woman who does not know who to address, in the region or department in which she resides, to find the right specialist at the right time, able to make the right diagnosis and offer her the right treatment. As you can see, basic research, applied research in the field of diagnosis and treatment, structuring of management networks: all this is essential, but there is also a societal side. I don't throw a stone at anyone because the disease, if it has now emerged on the public agenda, was hitherto not well known. However, when the alert is given by a young patient, it should no longer be underestimated by the school environment or the medical community; It should be immediately followed by effects, and the patient's integration into a diagnostic and therapeutic pathway should be done as soon as possible. Women's words must be heard, listened to and accompanied. This is the whole societal aspect that the President of the Republic wants to develop through this national plan. Finally, there is the question of care. This question is present in the motion for a resolution and it is legitimate – I insist on that, because this point, on which you are united, is not simple. We asked the associations, specialists and the High Health Authority – everyone knows this body now – what were the proper ways of managing the disease, with the assumption that no patient should be deprived of access to the care most adapted to his or her health needs for financial reasons. It goes without saying, it is obvious. It is also necessary to consider short-term work stoppages, which pose the underlying question of the day of failure. What are the existing arrangements in the common law? There are three of them, two of which have already been mentioned. There is ALD 30, that is to say, the management of long-term conditions for chronic and disabling diseases, which are known not to evolve in the right direction. It's severe diabetes, severe hypertension, Parkinson's disease, some cancers, etc. Attention, ALD 30 does not trigger itself when a disease is diagnosed to the patient: a request must be made by the doctor, even if it is necessarily followed by effect when the diagnosis is recognized as such. I was a neurologist: when one of my patients had multiple sclerosis, I filled out an ALD 30 application when the patient and I considered that certain treatments or cared for them justified it. In diseases like this, the demand is made very early, but not by the patient and without automatic triggering. There is also ALD 31, which allows, upon referral by the doctor of the health insurance, recognition for an equivalent of ALD 30, i.e. full treatment of all the costs inherent in the disease. It is triggered – whatever the pathology, including endometriosis – when one considers that a patient's state of health will incur medical expenses that justify 100% health insurance coverage, without the intervention of additional health care. Finally, there is ALD 32, for patients who suffer at the same time from several complex and sometimes intrigued diseases. I tell you quite clearly, and those who know me know this: in general, I am rather a supporter of the "everything safe". I did it during the crisis of the covid-19 for vaccines, for tests and for telemedicine; Before that, I was rapporteur-general of the Committee on Social Affairs, where I argued that we should strengthen the role and place of health insurance in the care of any kind of medical care. This question is therefore not an ideological one. What, in the case of endometriosis, is the right approach to care? Should it be decided that all endometriosis patients will be classified as ALD 30 upon diagnosis? We can ask ourselves the question. Some associations are very partisan, others are more reserved.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u51	Which ones?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u52	We interviewed patients, specialists and the High Health Authority. They tell us, basically, that there are as many forms of endometriosis as there are sick people who suffer from it. Some patients may experience period pain at times that warrant special care, others will have a much more disabling disease that has consequences in their daily lives. Should 10% of women be automatically classified as ALD 30? That is the question that is being asked. I see the Members of Parliament of France unsuspectingly watching me at the turn; I am sorry to say that, but I do not think I have the answer. I referred the matter to the High Health Authority, which, instead, voted against the ALD 30 mechanism and said that access to ALD 31 should be strengthened. As you know, the President of the Republic has asked me to lead an inter-ministerial committee to address all these issues...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u53	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u54	It's urgent to wait!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u55	I don't see why it upsets you:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u56	That makes us laugh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u57	... it's about respecting something that should be dear to you, namely health democracy – we will celebrate the twenty years of Bernard Kouchner's very beautiful law on March 4. The spirit is this: rather than settling everything in Parliament or in the minister's office, we are going to launch a major global, national reflection, involving the associations and the patients themselves in the first place, in order to determine what is the right way to take care of them. Maybe it'll be ALD 30. I tell you clearly: I will have no problems, neither ideological nor conceptual nor practical with this. I am just saying that the method proposed by the President of the Republic, following a mission which has nevertheless consulted more than 200 people, is based on the idea that the appropriation of the disease is more to those who suffer and to those who care than to experts in their office. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I thank you once again for this motion for a resolution which has the merit of sending a signal to the Government. I understood that Parliament was going to vote on it. I have no difficulty with that; On the contrary, I am pleased that your initiative opens up even more in the public agenda a space for discussion and exchange on this pathology. As for me, I am keen to complete the basic work that will enable us to catch up with our long delay and send the following message to all the women of our country: "You are heard, you are listened to, you are accompanied, you are recognized and you are cared for. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u58	I shall put to the vote the whole motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u59	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 111 Number of votes cast 111 Absolute majority 56 For adoption 111 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u60	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u61	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u62	The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law by Mr Ugo Bernalicis and others to block prices (No 4743, 4865).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u63	The next speaker is Mr Jean-Luc Mélenchon, alternate Mr Ugo Bernalicis, rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u64	First of all, on behalf of the unsubstantiated parliamentarians, I would like to express our gratitude and gratitude to all those of our colleagues who have joined us, in the same spirit, in adopting the resolution on the recognition of endometriosis, a disease that tortures the women who suffer it, martyrs the couple and strikes the family. It is therefore the entire society that will receive the message sent by the National Assembly unanimously. It seems to me that this is a great parliamentary moment. As for me, I intervene at a particular moment in the life of the nation. It is a time when everything increases, prices explode and people who are already caught in a logic of survival, because their income or situation does not allow them to cope as they would like with their duty as parents, or simply with their own material needs, find themselves drawn into a spiral that dedicates them to the impossibility of living. I believe that, in this House, we have all become widely aware of this. It is now time to take the decisions that show that the National Assembly, on this and other matters, is able to move forward and take the necessary exceptional measures immediately. The proposal submitted to you by the unsubstantiated group is a proposal to block prices by exception. This text, while I understood it well in his mind – especially since I wrote it – does not propose a permanent measure of control of all prices, as was the case between 1936 and 1986 under all governments which had the possibility to do so. Some of them have, in certain circumstances, taken measures to block prices. Historians among us will remember that the first price freeze was the Law on the Maximum, passed during the Great Revolution of 1789; More recently, the Popular Front did so in 1936; even more recently, Michel Rocard, in response to an explosion in fuel prices; and even more recently, President Emmanuel Macron blocked the prices of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels, when, under the circumstances that determined their extremely high demand, prices had exploded. The aim now is to block, for the most part, the prices of fuels and raw materials necessary for the survival of families. Of course, such a decision would be taken on a provisional basis, until the day it was decided that it was no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u65	In any event, such an exceptional measure finds a legal instrument in the Commercial Code, article 410-2 of which allows price freezes. The Act of 19 August 1936 to suppress the unjustified price increase which was repealed in 1986 was the basis for President Macron's decision to block the price of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels. The article states that it is possible to block prices in "a crisis situation, exceptional circumstances" – admit that one may think that one is there –, "a public calamity or a manifestly abnormal market situation in a particular sector". For us, French, it is quite obvious that it is the market that creates the mess on the price of electricity, not the price of electricity production itself, since it is known by long hand and is stable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u66	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u67	Article 1 of this draft law is intended to introduce the term "social emergency" in Article 410-2 of the Commercial Code. Our country, which recognizes the health emergency and the security emergency, which recognizes a thousand and one emergencies – including the climate emergency, when it comes to compensating climate disasters – could thus admit that there can be a social emergency. This would be characterized, like what we are currently experiencing, by the extreme disarray and distress of social circles, faced with sharp price spikes. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] There is an incredible phenomenon: from now on, the dominant economic system – capitalism – is able to feed on the disasters it causes. It is the market that creates the disruption and the sudden rise in prices. Thus, for example, a large brand has decided to lower the price of the sale of breadsticks to 29 cents of euro, which is clearly a sale at a loss, which will result in a new damage: the ruin of pastry bakers, who can only pass on the increases in the price of energy. Thus, the conjunction of a system unable to self-regulate with pressure of demand and a situation of distress produces precisely what we call the social emergency. The inclusion of these terms in the law would allow the Government to deliberate by having an argument giving it the expected overhang of an executive over society. The second point of this text – and not the least – is that it is not a question of establishing what mechanism, decided in an office, in the old, as was done in the past, at the beginning of the Fifth Republic, where someone determined the prices of each thing, because it was practiced in this way and no one could say anything about it. At the time, no one thought it was the USSR in France...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u68	No, but it was a disaster!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u69	... and – it must be admitted – this was not the case. It is possible to learn from this situation: the text draws the conclusion, proposing, in Article 2, a citizen intervention in determining the price freeze. This principle, aimed at consulting associations or individuals, allows for tempering excesses – or perhaps arrangements – that would occur in the silence of an office. Again, there is nothing more to be proposed than to generalize a good practice. The hearings we have conducted have shown that such a provision already exists in at least one overseas department – the island of La Réunion – where, as in the other overseas territories, the so-called Lurel price control mechanism applies: it works and the population complains when it is not strong enough. In order to avoid the establishment of a system that would subsequently be called into question, the direct participation of citizens was organised: on the island of La Réunion, people are drawn by lot and participate in the commission that sets the prices – not only one or two, but one hundred and fifty-six of them. Yet no one has heard of an insurrection against this mechanism. On the contrary, it is not only a price damper, but also a social damper, because it allows one to understand one another, listen to one another and society to multiply the mechanisms of self-regulation on the basis of citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is still necessary that, from the technical, legal and even social point of view, you take the measure of the moment: 8 million people are covered by food aid. This figure is established by the Food Bank and by the major organizations and popular associations – the Catholic Relief, the People's Relief. Such a level has never been reached in France! That's amazing! For many of us, this is not only suffocating, but also incomprehensible, no matter what bench you sit on. Similarly, 12 million people live in the cold, either because they themselves have to cut off the heating, or because they reduce it and live in the discomfort of the cold in the middle of winter: it is incomprehensible! This is unacceptable, in a country where at the same time, and often in the same crisis, unheard of over-profits, which are accumulating for some, while all others feel completely stripped of the most basic and humble elements of the right to survival.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u70	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u71	And these are the eggs, the bread, after all the rest. The price freeze should therefore concern not only energy prices, but also the first five or six mass popular consumptions that allow people to survive. Millions of families are affected – I ask that we hear it – with a particular strength: imagine yourself when you are in front of your television, with your kids, and that an advertisement appears saying that "every day you must, to live well and eat well, eat five fruits and vegetables". They ask why this is not the case, almost blaming the parents. The latter do not simply do so because they cannot, because the price is excessive. [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] That is why this text is not only a text of social dignity, but a text of dignity. The public power, from the first days of its republican constitution – I am thinking of the Great Revolution of 1789 – has established that the first of human rights is the right to survival and that, therefore, everything that makes it possible to contribute to it is welcome: this is what I appeal to you by presenting this text. Of course, he has my fullest and most enthusiastic support.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u72	Relevant speech!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u73	Thank you, Mr. Mélenchon. Why don't you sit on the panels of the commissions?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u74	It's an honor for us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u75	I'm so used to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u76	The next speaker is the Minister responsible for industry.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u77	[[Exclaims on FI banks]] The proposal you are presenting is a bad answer to a good question.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u78	It reminds us of something!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u79	I would like to point out that the Government has focused its efforts over the past five years on a twofold objective. The first of the fights is to ensure that the French live better and for that, that they have more access to employment:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u80	It can be seen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u81	...it is the first of the fights, the fight against unemployment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u82	The control of the unemployed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u83	The second is to allow those in employment to live more dignifiedly and to be better paid. We have conducted these two battles, which have produced clear results. The Government, with the support of the majority, has created 1 million jobs in four years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u84	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u85	The unemployment rate – as we go through one of the most intense crises of the last eighty years – is now lower than it was before the crisis, lower than at the beginning of the quinquennium, significantly lower, especially in poor territories – I am thinking in particular of the mining basin and the city of Lens, where it has decreased by four points,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u86	It's already the legislative campaign!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u87	... in Bethune, where he also decreased by four points, which is considerable. Let us address the issue of modest incomes. On this point too, we have worked, by increasing the activity premium, by making it possible to challenge overtime, by giving more access to participation and self-interest – a whole series of measures that have increased the income of the modest people who work. Income tax reform has benefited particularly low- and middle-income households. Such actions are effective and are not guided by ideology, but by the sense of the result and the general interest for the French. You are proposing a provision which, in the end – you have reminded him very well, Mr Mélenchon – takes up measures already used in history. You mentioned the law of the maximum, at the time of the Revolution, which was indeed a complete failure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u88	All right?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u89	[[Murmures on the benches of the FI group]] We can also mention the use of price blocking in countries that you take as models, such as Venezuela.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u90	That's subtle!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u91	It was found that not only did it create a black market, but it also did not block overinflation; Moreover, Venezuela's GDP has fallen massively, because when prices are blocked, economic activity is prevented. You are, of course, right to say that we have used price-blocking measures – I fully agree with you on this point. Indeed, we are not sectarian, nor ideologists. In specific moments of crisis, when needs increase drastically, when supply is concentrated in a few hands, when there are possibilities to make extra profit on consumers' backs, then yes, you must not have the hand shaking and you must regulate prices: we have done it for hydro-alcoholic gel and sanitary masks; More generally, we regulate prices in certain sectors, such as medicines, taking into account both the benefit to the French and the risks to production. However, such an approach – which you want to expand, if not generalize – has the direct effect of opposing French consumers to those who produce or process, especially farmers.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u92	Absolutely not!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u93	The other impact of the device you are proposing is, paradoxically, to push for relocation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u94	All right? Explain yourself!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u95	Really? It's not serious, Madam Deputy Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u96	Offshoring is characterized by less jobs, less wealth: the increase in poverty is a quasi-linear function correlated with the decline in industry in our country. The Government is obviously not prepared to support a project that proposes to become poorer, reduce employment and ensure that the French do not live in dignity from their work.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u97	I see you've understood everything, it's a pleasure!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u98	What policy are we pursuing in this regard? We are actively acting on purchasing power. Without going back to all the structural measures I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, let us recall some actions of the Government – supported, and sometimes spurred, by the majority. The energy check, designed to combat inflation, is an immediate measure benefiting 36 million French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u99	It's only 100 euros! Just the fuel is 400 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u100	The expansion of the activity premium benefits 6 million of them. The Government is also working to limit the price of electricity to 4 per cent in 2021,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u101	But yes, let's talk about the price of electricity!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u102	...which will clearly distinguish us from other European countries, where this price rose sharply in 2021 and will continue to do so in 2022. So you can see that we are not sectarian; But we're not demagogues either. We will not act against the employment of the French, against industry, against farmers, by speaking inconsistently. Indeed, yesterday everyone complained that farmers' incomes were insufficient and today it is proposed to block the prices of fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u103	You allow them to be bought below the production price!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u104	All of this doesn't hold. We will continue to support the most modest French people to ensure that they can live more dignifiedly, having access to respectable employment that enables them to progress.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u105	Increase the SMIC!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u106	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] I am thinking of the work done on integration: we have introduced the plan "1 young person, 1 solution", developed training and carried out a specific action for the long-term unemployed. This is a long-term work; It is probably less spectacular than measures similar to political blows, but this work pays off, the French will not be mistaken.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u107	In the general debate, Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u108	Come on, Ugo, rip it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u109	Venezuela!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u110	I regret this intervention, Madam Deputy Minister: you are telling anything about a problem that could affect anyone. Your speech is a problem because absolutely nothing stands up. I will start from the beginning: we want to block prices to solve a concrete problem that affects millions of our fellow citizens, those who suffer, who are in poverty, in poverty and who live in unworthy conditions because they cannot pay their electricity and gas bills. Thus, electricity and gas are cut – yes, cuts are made even during the winter truce, or the meter is reduced as a skin of grief, which is the same – as well as the water that continues to be cut in our country although it is illegal. Not to mention all those who cannot fill up their vehicle's fuel or feed properly. That was recalled earlier, 8 million people are using food aid, which is huge. This number has actually jumped because of the crisis of the covid and the politics you are leading. Currently, price blocking is possible on an ad hoc basis in "exceptional circumstances". Article 1 of the draft law adds the possibility of blocking prices in the event of a "social emergency"; it is necessary to provide for this criterion in view of the current situation. As for Article 2, it is not intended to be a political coup. This provision, which provides for the extension to Hexagon of the application of provisions currently in force in the overseas territories, is nothing unusual; We've had more spectacular measurements. We offer you a device that works, perhaps not enough to your liking or ours; Nevertheless, it is an added value for consumers and local producers – I will come back to that. First of all, I must go back to the lies or ineptitudes that you have spoken, Madam Deputy Minister. You argue that 1 million jobs have been created and that unemployment has fallen. But if we look well – I'm not going to go into technical details, even if you like it – the unemployment halo, that is, people in precarious jobs, has grown enormously. Thus, the number of poor workers continues to grow. I want proof of the increase in purchasing power you're claiming. On average, that's true, but if we look in detail, the 5 per cent of the country's poorest people have been impoverished by 5 per cent over the last four years because of your public policy, while those at the top of the basket have actually increased their purchasing power and become richer. You say that the incomes of the most modest people have increased; Of course, it has increased, but so much slower than that of the people at the top of the basket that we wonder if you are leading a policy of resorption of inequalities. In fact, this is not the case because inequality indicators have increased over the past four years as well.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u111	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u112	You have not increased the activity bonus with good heart and smiling; No, this measure was torn from you by the collective mobilization, in the street, of the French people wearing a yellow vest. However, the activity premium is not the panacea: it is a supplement – and not an increase – of wages financed by public finances; It's an increase in income, not a salary. In fact, the SMIC should be increased; we propose to fix it to 1400 euros. We propose a comprehensive policy that includes price blocking because we need to regulate...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u113	The SMIC is at 1490 euros!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u114	At 1490 euros gross; I propose to increase it to 1,400 euros net. Don't act like you're discovering our program! If you don't have it, it's on sale in a 3 euro bookshop, I'm sure you can afford it, dear colleague Balanant. If you don't, I'll give it to you. The price freeze offers a response to concrete problems. Not only gas, electricity and fuel prices should be blocked, but also prices for basic necessities. This is the case on Réunion Island for 153 products, including five fruits and vegetables. Is blocking the prices of these five fruits and vegetables a problem on Réunion Island? Are farmers being robbed? On the contrary, they are happy to participate in this arrangement which does not apply in all the overseas territories; all price-quality shields do not include five fruits and vegetables. This is an innovation you should be inspired by. It allows small local producers to market their seasonal and good quality products when available, accompanied by a display indicating that they are placed under the price-quality shield. To date, they have been evicted from large-scale distribution channels because farmers do not have sufficient quantities of goods and cannot supply them on a regular basis. You don't seem to know the device, Madam Deputy Minister. Is price determination intended to squander each other? No, absolutely not, the price is set around the table in the price, margin and income observatories (OPMR) where producers, intermediaries, distributors and citizens are gathered, following the popular mobilization and the movement of yellow vests – an innovation experienced on the island of La Réunion, which we propose to generalize. It is important to note that this device works. When people complain about it, it is because it is not properly applied enough or because it does not concern enough products; they do not criticise this measure as such. On Réunion Island, I didn't see a black market of five fruits and vegetables, you have to stop telling anything. There is a black market when prices rise, not when they are blocked at a lower level than the one that comes naturally from the market – I put the word "naturally" in quotation marks! The EGALIM laws – the law for the balance of trade relations in the agricultural and food sector and a healthy, sustainable and accessible diet – and EGALIM 2, which provided for a fairer remuneration for farmers, did not produce results. Do you think that the increase in the price of butter benefits those who make milk? That is not the case at all. It is the rules of the international market – the law of supply and demand that you cherish so much – that lead to an increase in the price of butter because there is a strong tension in the international market because of China's strong demand. So, at the end of the day, in France, we pay more for our galette des rois. Is it logical that the cost of milk production has not changed? Cows have produced no more or less milk, but international market data have changed. You can satisfy yourself with this by believing that this is normal because price fixing depends on the market. But the market does not guarantee access to basic necessities, which make it possible to live in dignity; access is a measure of general interest. Our proposal is not very complicated, I do not understand that you have such specious arguments. At the end of your speech, you mentioned relocation. How do OPMRs and the price-quality shield work? In the term "price-quality shield" is the word quality, it will not have escaped you. For example, the prefecture takes qualitative criteria into account when drawing up the list of products. These criteria should include the locality of the product – you could give prefectures instructions to do so. It is thanks to this system that productions have been relocated to the overseas countries and territories; We have not imported or relocated more because of the application of this measure, that is not true, and its application in the national territory would not result in such a consequence. To combat offshoring, a national policy should be applied, for example by helping employees working in a company to recover it when the shareholder leaves because he wants to get 12%, 13% or 14% of profitability. In 2012, the price freeze system was applied to fuels, particularly in Guadeloupe, while oil tankers were blackmailing, threatening no longer to secure the supply of fuel, which never happened. We have asked to consult the analytical accounts of producers – this must talk to you, Madam Minister – and it has been noted that the profitability of their equity is 16%.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u115	Scandalous!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u116	It's outrageous and indecent, no one would accept that! The law has set the ceiling for the remuneration of equity at 9 per cent, which is already enormous. If I'm offered this kind of investment, I'll run! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] With the price blocking mechanism we are proposing, it is not a question of squandering producers, but of creating reasonable margins so that both the producer, the intermediaries, the distributor and the consumer can find themselves there. This device works. That is why I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for this text, which envisages extending the measures applied in the overseas countries and territories to cover the whole of France. Indeed, this mechanism works and will enable the mass of our fellow citizens to return to a dignified life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u117	Bravo, it was clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u118	Mr Stéphane Little has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u119	In his greetings to the French, the President of the Republic stated with modesty that in our country we lived better in 2022 than in 2017. This is probably true for a small minority of French people, but the finding is much less clear for the largest number who have suffered the health crisis, but also the anti-social policy pursued since 2017.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u120	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u121	For several years, the poverty rate has been increasing, as evidenced by the explosion in the use of food aid. How, then, is it surprising that purchasing power is the first concern of the French, affected by the high inflation which reached 2.8% in 2021? This is due in particular to the rise in energy and housing prices, which often constitute a substantial part of the consumption of modest households. These price increases are all the more painful as wages have been stagnating for years, as wage moderation has become the only mantra of competitiveness policies. In this context, the proposal for a law by our unsubstantiated colleagues to block the price of certain goods is a useful answer that puts the social issue to the heart of the debate, to which we are so attached. Their observation is simple: the free and competitive market does not allow the right price to be fixed in many situations. No, the market is not an unsurpassable horizon. Moreover, public services are indeed a demonstration of this: in many areas, they provide a set of out-of-market services, guaranteeing their free and equal access for all. This is one of the originalities of our economic and social model: in France, despite the regular assaults of the liberals, health, education, research but also, at the local level, canteen, leisure, culture, sport and transport are widely regarded by our fellow citizens as part of the public service. With the covid crisis and the rise in energy prices, this approach has reinforced the proposals that the GDR Group is promoting in the public debate: the creation of a public energy pole or the medicine. These products are strategic and it is essential to ensure access to them for all. Therefore, public pilotage is necessary. For too long – since 1987 to be precise – our country has given up public intervention on prices, leaving it almost exclusively to the competitive market to fix them. Yet, in many cases, the market is unable to set the right price, the one that ensures, on the one hand, the fair remuneration of the producer and, on the other, a broad allocation of the goods in society. Thus, under the influence of speculation, the market can set prices disconnected from and below the real value. Indeed, free competition often determines prices that are too low – that is the case for many agricultural products – and that do not allow producers to live decently on their work. In these circumstances, although it is neither conceivable nor desirable to fix the price of all goods and products, we believe that price control is a solution that must no longer be deprived of. In this context, the legislative framework may be too limited, but there is, above all, a lack of real political will to use such provisions. The proposal for a law for unsubstantiated Members aims to extend the possibility of using price regulation, including energy and basic necessities, including food products. This is an additional tool to support household purchasing power. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group. – Mr. Alexis Corbière also applauds]] That is why we will support this bill, recalling that, while regaining power over prices is useful, we cannot deal with the question of purchasing power without referring to the subject of wages and the sharing of wealth that is more and more evenly distributed. Let us support the political will expressed by this bill with regard to prices, to lift taboos and put on the agenda the increase of the SMIC, a conference on salaries and raising the point of index of the salaries of civil servants.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u122	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u123	We are considering a proposal for a law by the La France group to block prices. Through this text, you try to address a concern of the French, the purchasing power. This is a major and legitimate concern, but we have a very different strategy than yours to address it. During this quinquennium, we made the choice to promote work by lowering contributions. We have abolished EUR 50 billion of taxes. We have upgraded the salaries of many professions. For example, health care providers have benefited from Ségur de la santé. We have helped those who need it most, in particular by raising the allowance for adults with disabilities or the minimum old age. In fact, you don't have the same program as us. You want to tax income up to 65%. You want to confiscate estates beyond a certain threshold. You want to introduce a super-luxury VAT. You want to requisition the profits of French economic florons. And so, in the continuity of your program inspired by the best economists of the Caracas faculty, you demand price blocking. You forget that the state already has tools to regulate markets and that our majority did not hesitate to use them. Thus, in order to reduce the French energy bill, the Government has introduced a temporary tariff shield on the price of natural gas. To take another example, during the health crisis, the Government regulated the sale price of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels. The State has legislation that works and allows it, in accordance with European rules, after consultation with the Autorité de la concurrence and in a time frame engraved in marble, to regulate the market in certain cases. There is therefore no rational reason to change the legislative framework. But you want to include in the law the possibility for a government, whatever it may be, to block prices in all sectors, without any consultation or precise limit in time. I am pleased to acknowledge that this radicality is consistent with the rest of your programme of breaking with the market economy. But our model is not yours. Our model is not that of the Venezuelan administered economy, where price freezes have led to monstrous queues in supermarkets, where the shelves are almost empty, where the black market thrives, where the dozen eggs trade under the coat at $3, the litre of milk at $3.9 and the litre of oil at $17. For decades, economists have fully documented the harmful effects of a prolonged price freeze. This blocking always results in an explosive chain reaction. In the first stage, the state blocks prices in a market by pretending to protect consumers. In the second stage, producers stop producing and sellers stop selling, as this means producing or selling at a loss. The third stage is the shortage, which results in queues in sales outlets or a rationing of consumption. The fourth stage sees the development of the black market, where goods and services are sold under the coat at exorbitant prices. The fifth step comes when the wonderful world of blocked prices stops: prices then skyrocket into an ultra-violent catch-up.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u124	Give your sources! Stop making up!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u125	Who finally pays for the broken pots? Again and again the consumer! In market economies, when governments used price controls to respond to a decline in purchasing power, the effects were the same. I could have given you the example of France, when President Mitterrand decided in 1982 to block prices and wages in the face of an inflation rate of 13%, a policy which obviously failed. I could have told you about California, where price control on electricity leads to blackouts. I could have told you about Sweden, where the blocking of rental market prices leads to 20-year waiting lists to access housing...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u126	Maybe because there's not enough!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u127	...and an explosion, of course, of the black market. Same causes, same effects. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] So no, we will not vote on your bill. We will oppose it, article by article. We will not emerge from the old conservative ideas of the cellar, nor from the old Marxist recipes of the attic. While others are making the choice to step back, the LaREM group is making the move forward, to really advance the purchasing power of the French, so that the work pays, to better protect those who have the least, to encourage the entrepreneurship, the individual initiative and the freedom of everyone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u128	Thank you for this moment of finesse!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u129	Mr. Stéphane Viry has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u130	The Government and our colleagues in the majority do not dislike the fact that purchasing power remains a major issue for many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u131	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u132	The triumphant satisfecites that we hear every day – and this very morning – in the Chamber and in the media will not be able to hide the glaring reality of the rise of poverty and insecurity in France in 2022. I would like to thank the rapporteur and his group for allowing us to discuss purchasing power, inflation and the daily life of the French, at a time when the President, who is a candidate without being a candidate, but who does not deprive himself of using the means of the state to beat the campaign, seeks to avoid the debate on the shortcomings of his balance sheet, among other things with regard to the rise of poverty, by overjoying daily a health partition that divides the country and causes national discord. The figures, which are known to all, lead us to a frightening observation: 8 million French people need daily food aid. At the beginning of 2021, our party, The Republicans, proposed a plan to combat food insecurity. We must indeed go much further in the fight against food waste. We also proposed to pay a food check of 450 euros per quarter to the more than 6 million French people who benefit from the housing allowance. This discussion is an opportunity for me to acknowledge the essential role of associations and volunteers who, in all our territories, support many families at arm's length. The Red Cross, the People's Relief, the Catholic Relief, the Restos du coeur, the food banks or the communal centres for social action are putting so much energy in favor of the poorest! Poverty, the true poverty, the poverty that affects the ability of everyone to live with dignity, is not always visible. Support measures during the covid crisis are not enough to stop its progression in France, particularly in the last two years, during which more than 300,000 people have fallen below the fateful threshold of poverty, leading with them their families. These difficulties are not only concentrated on the most precarious French, but now find resonance in the middle classes, faced with a sharp rise in the prices of essential goods and services essential to daily life. This increase in the cost of living and the loss of purchasing power are affecting many of our fellow citizens who are working and yet are finding it increasingly difficult to make ends meet. Their daily lives are difficult and their ends are exhausting. They are experiencing an increase in fuel and energy prices, with diesel reaching nearly 1.60 euro and oil more than 1 euro per litre at the beginning of 2022. These increases affect all French people, but they particularly affect the inhabitants of rural areas, who often have no choice but to use their personal vehicle to go to work, to bring their children to school or leisure activities, and whose homes are equipped with enough energy-efficient heating. To return to your bill, we will not vote on it in open session, rapporteur, as we did not vote in committee. Whatever we see in the situation, we are convinced that the proposals you are making are not in a position to respond to these difficulties. This real divergence is just as much the result of a difference of philosophical perspective as that of an observation of the economic reality of many countries during the twentieth century, where most of the population was plunged into marasm and precariousness. We do not believe in an economy governed by administered prices. We consider that an offer must find its demand and vice versa, and that only free pricing can achieve this objective. This does not prevent public authorities from directing and regulating the market, as well as supporting the competitiveness of supply through attractive prices. But by blocking prices, it is the economy itself that is obstructed. However, I would like to conclude by reiterating our thanks to the rapporteur for initiating this debate. The Republican Group recalls its commitment to fighting on foot every day to reduce the precarious situation in our country, especially among young people. We all share the conviction that this issue will be absolutely major in the upcoming elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u133	Mrs Michèle Crouzet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u134	You see price blocking as a tool for anti-inflationary policy, but it alone cannot be a remedy. This option could be implemented provided an alternative policy of self-management is adopted. Colleagues, we cannot escape the truth: the measure you are advocating would embark on a crazy adventure. The mechanism of this text is simple: to give a very general scope to price blocking provisions reserved for an exceptional and particular framework. As has been said in committee, the Government already has tools in the law to regulate prices. You blame him for not using them. This is a legitimate political difference between what the Government and the majority see fit to do and what you, La France insoubted, wish to implement. Our strategy is not to destabilize markets, as you advocate. We choose to strengthen purchasing power through the reduction of taxes, the revalorisation of wages, through allowances and services for those who need it most. I would remind you that France has been experiencing an 8% increase in purchasing power since 2017, despite a major crisis – a point that you are eluded in your criticism of the current economic situation. The purchasing power has increased thanks in particular to an activity premium of EUR 100 per month for the most modest workers, the defiance of overtime and the abolition of employers' contributions at the level of the SMIC. On the contrary, shortage, black market explosion and hyperinflation are the consequences of the measures you are proposing. If the evils you identify are real, the remedy offered would only worsen them. You even wanted to extend the scope of your bill when it was examined in committee, by adding retail markets to wholesale markets, so that the state could regulate our economy even more. We know the perverse effects of such measures. Equalization is taking place, which in turn increases other prices, imports are increasing, payment deadlines are extended and, ultimately, someone has to pay. You will surely propose that it be the state – or, in other words, the taxpayer and our future generations, through taxation, which would only delay the problem. Operators should also be reimbursed for losses incurred in order not to risk supply blockages. Your group, La France insoumée, often reflects on software in which the debt would not be repaid, or even exist, but it is taking a risk that seems unreasonable to us. Is it useful to stress once again the total incompatibility of your measure with the European treaties to which, as you know, we are committed? This is yet another position that differentiates us. In this respect, you replied that the provisions on which you rely are already an exception to European law, and that it is therefore possible to disregard them. It is obvious, however, that these measures exist precisely because they are exceptional. They are permitted because they apply only to overseas and to their markets made special by their accessibility more difficult than elsewhere, by their small size, which would make them difficult to achieve profitability without these measures, and by the limited number of operators, which could raise prices. It is therefore because of their specificity that the existing price freeze measures are compatible with the economy as it exists and with the European Treaties. It is precisely this specificity that you want to bring down. In conclusion, this text aims to give the State broad and dangerous powers, and it is not applicable. To claim the opposite is to lie to the French. Let us add to this a touch of sensationalism, and I fear that we will find the ingredients of La France insoubted in the election campaign. This does not increase our debates.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u135	Oh, why? There's no shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u136	Nevertheless, the creation of an additional EUR 100 energy check paid to the 5 million most fragile households, the implementation of a tariff shield, whereby the price of gas will never exceed the October 2021 tariff and the increase in the price of electricity should not exceed 4 %, and the creation of an inflation allowance of EUR 100 paid to people whose incomes are less than EUR 2000 net per month, are measures that bring true answers to the French, which we support. The Dem Group will therefore oppose your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u137	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u138	The group La France insoumée wanted to put forward, in its reserved parliamentary day, a proposal for a law to allow price freezes. Our colleagues are also seeing, shared on every bench, an explosion in the prices of essential goods for more than a year now. Whether it is gas, electricity, wheat or butter, there is an increase of more than 40% in the markets, and the same applies to fuels, many of which are particularly dependent on their mobility. Other materials and materials are undergoing the same changes, with an increase of 30% for steel or 80% for semiconductors, with a direct effect on the price of many goods which become inaccessible to the less affluent households and which also weigh very heavily on the balance sheet of enterprises. There are many explanations. With regard to food, agricultural harvests have been particularly poor over the period due to exceptional climatic events. Gas reserves, directly affecting energy prices, are low due to the Yoyo effect of production in response to demand during the pandemic. Other geopolitical factors also influence this area. Is price freeze therefore the solution to the difficulties faced by our fellow citizens? First of all, it should be noted that, behind this high price volatility, there are exceptional cyclical factors, in particular the pandemic, and major structural elements, such as our country's dependence on imports of energy products. Re-establishing food and energy sovereignty and autonomy seems to us to be the right way to implement lasting solutions to the difficulties encountered. We regret that the bill does not consider longer-term solutions, even if you refer to them well in your explanatory statement. In the field of energy, for example, the development of a mix to produce 100% of our needs in a sustainable manner in a decarbonised manner and the deployment of equally decarbonised mobility are likely to make us less vulnerable to uncontrollable market situations and to the hand of often competing powers. I turn to the short-term solutions, and so to the content of your bill. Article 1 aims to extend the cases in which prices can be blocked to situations of "social emergency", such as crisis situations, exceptional circumstances, public disasters or a manifestly abnormal market situation in a sector determined according to current law. However, the fact that this notion of "social emergency" is not defined by the article risks, alas, weakening the scope of the scheme. It is, by its very nature, highly subjective and does not improve the current wording. Indeed, the law already allows for such measures to be put in place in the face of crisis situations – and why not a social crisis – or abnormal market situations in a given sector, as is currently the case in the gas and electricity markets, for example. The Government intervened in this direction in 2020 for masks and hydro-alcoholic gel, although, as you said, this reaction was delayed. Article 2 extends to Hexagon the possibility for the regulatory power to take measures to remedy the malfunctions in wholesale markets for goods and services in the overseas territories. These are mainly petroleum products and essential products whose market prices would be particularly high given the consequences of the insularity of certain territories on the costs of supply. It also provides that the annual agreement to moderate the overall price of a limited list of current consumer products negotiated between professional organisations and the State should include the blocking of at least five seasonal fruits and vegetables. If such a mechanism is justified because of the special situation of the ultramarine territories, it appears more questionable in metropolitan France, where free competition exists and where supply difficulties are only ad hoc and cyclical. In addition, the seasonal fruit and vegetable measure does not guarantee that negotiations take precedence over foodstuffs for which demand and needs are the most important. Its application could be far removed from the intent of the authors. Finally, with the energy shield announced by the Government, price blocking is not a sufficient corrective measure and can have harmful effects on the market. This is evidenced by the inadequate reflection under way on the raising of the ARENH ceiling, the regulated access to historical nuclear electricity, which would have the effect, with enormous costs, of helping other suppliers, who do not necessarily need it, to pay less and to speculate. Finally, this mechanism remains entirely dependent on the Government's willingness to make use of it or not, since it is a matter of changing the tools available to the regulatory authority. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The operative part of your bill lacks operationality, the tools available to Parliament are limited and we understand that it is an appeal text. You denounce a situation and make a statement that we agree with. It is therefore in this capacity and in this spirit that the Socialist and related group will symbolically support your bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u139	Mr Luc Lamirault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u140	In 2020, the Government regulated the tariff for hydro-alcoholic gel and masks to meet the urgent needs of the health crisis and avoid speculation on these products. The Commercial Code provides that the Government may take temporary measures in the event of a crisis, exceptional circumstances, public calamity or a manifestly abnormal market situation in a given sector in order to combat excessive price increases or decreases. This article provides that a decree shall be issued after consultation with the National Consumer Council and that such measures shall not exceed six months. The price freeze is therefore provided for under French law in exceptional circumstances. The proposal for a law by our colleagues in La France is intended to extend this possibility very widely. It aims to enable the Government to extend this possibility to the situation of social emergency, to remove the limitation of its application over time and the control of regulatory bodies, and to apply measures to the whole French territory, which are now specific to the overseas sector, in particular for petroleum products and consumer products. The rise in prices of raw materials, energy and everyday products is of concern to the French, but this text does not seem to be able to respond to the challenges of a globalised economy and to the competitive rules that have proved their worth. Around the world, various attempts to block prices by the state have proved unsuccessful and have led to undesirable effects. Thus, a price freeze mechanism would lead to a decline or even a halt in production, as companies would no longer be encouraged to produce and innovate, serious shortages, the development of a black market with high inflation and, finally, a return to the initial situation with a catch-up policy weighing on the country's economy and on the purchasing power of its inhabitants. Thus, this policy would not represent a lasting solution, as experience has shown that the proposed measure does not address the root causes of inflation and global price increases. In addition, this policy of lowering the price of petroleum products would be contrary to the environmental approach aimed at gradually reducing the use of petrol vehicles. Our country has been going through a health crisis for almost two years, which has led to an economic crisis. We have advocated measures aimed at reviving the French economy, such as the abolition of the housing tax, the reduction of social contributions on workers' incomes, the defiance of overtime and the upgrading of the SMIC. We achieved record growth of more than 6% in 2021 and unemployment is falling sharply. These figures are the result of the policy we have been defending since the beginning of this quinquennium. In order to respond quickly to the rise in prices caused in particular by the overheating of production, short-term decisions have been taken. The temporary freeze on gas prices and the regulated electricity tariff will help to meet the increase in energy needs during the winter period. In addition, an inflation allowance of EUR 100 was gradually granted to 39 million French. This measure responds to a social justice imperative by addressing our fellow citizens who earn less than EUR 2000 per month. These measures, in accordance with EU law, tend to protect consumers without unduly affecting our businesses, while respecting the current control mechanisms. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] The Group of the European People's Party will therefore oppose the bill we are considering, which does not take into account the undesirable long-term consequences of a broad price freeze policy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u141	Mr Thierry Benoit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u142	The excellent Thierry Benoit!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u143	I am responsible for expressing the position of the UDI-I Group on this bill to block prices. Mr Mélenchon, you have identified a problem of which we are many to be aware: inflation, as opposed to the wage situation in our country, particularly that of the smallest wages, which are close to the SMIC. At the outset, I will make a counter-proposal to this bill which the UDI-I Group will not support, preferring to block prices the reopening of the debate on social VAT. This is, indeed, a measure that I have personally loved for many years and which I would like to see addressed during the election campaign that will open in a few weeks' time. This social VAT would aim to isolate basic necessities, which we identified in the first confinement. Pasta, rice, butter, eggs, milk and bread were seen as essential products. But no one escapes from the fact that the first revenue from the state budget is VAT, which amounts to more than EUR 129 billion, in front of income tax, which, if I may say, limits only EUR 70 billion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u144	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u145	We are in a market economy, in an economic space called the European Union, whose trajectory, in terms of consumption and prices, is based on free competition and, above all, undistorted competition. However, it turns out that the current health crisis distorts this competition and that some actors speculate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u146	There! Well, I'll fix this for you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u147	We need to correct the harmful action of these actors. We are several Members who have reminded us of the current situation. This week, I asked the Minister of Agriculture and Food about the issue of butter, and in your opening statement, you mentioned the example of the baguette sold 29 cents to a major distributor. Not only does this ruin pastry bakers but it also distorts the consumer's relationship with the true value of food products in particular. This debate also applies to eggs.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u148	And pasta!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u149	That is why the UDI-I Group will not vote on your bill. We would like the bodies we have set up in our country to carry out extensive work and to do the same at European level. The Directorate-General for Competition, Consumer Affairs and Fraud Prevention (DGCCRF) and the Autorité de la concurrence must have their role increased and work in a coordinated manner, very closely with the Autorité de la concurrence at European level. [[Applause on a few benches of the IDU-I group]] In conclusion, not to this proposal for a law to block prices, yes to the opening of a debate on social VAT which isolates basic necessities within the framework of a reduced VAT rate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u151	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u152	Oh, Castellani!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u153	France has nearly 9 million poor people: they are all destinies hampered by financial difficulties, as many people who live on a daily basis the material deprivation and renunciation, the anguish of the end of the month. While the situation was already difficult before the covid-19 pandemic, the health crisis further weakened the most fragile resources. The safety nets introduced have made it possible to limit the spread of poverty, but we have also seen new audiences slip into precariousness. It is regrettable that a major structural reform has not been designed. Today, poverty has many faces: that of precarious workers, people at the end of their rights, young people, the elderly, people denied the right to asylum. It is found everywhere, in the heart of large cities and in the peripheries, as well as in the countryside. Beyond these differences, all these women and men live in the same reality: the difficult endings of months. Let us say at the outset that the response of the public authorities to this precarious situation has long been insufficient. Food distributions, for example, are essentially the responsibility of associations and are not sufficient to ensure that everyone has access to quality food. The promise to create a food check for the most modest, proposed by the Citizens' Climate Convention, after months of delay, has been buried, and other flagship measures such as the removal of the housing tax or the reduction of the income tax do not benefit the most modest. With the economic recovery, other difficulties have arisen, including the rise in prices which undermines the purchasing power of the French. First of all, we have seen a worrying rise in the price of energy, to which inflation has been added today, affecting other essential products. The price of sugar increased by 4.3% in one year, while the price of pasta rose by 6.7%. In this particular post-pandemic context and in an emergency, the Government has put in place a set of solutions: blocking of regulated gas tariffs, exceptional energy check, inflation compensation. In addition, there is a tariff shield whose cost, which is poorly estimated, is constantly increasing in view of the continued rise in energy prices. In the end, this strategy leads to a stacking of measures that we would like to see really effective. The question raised by the draft law of our colleagues in the group France is therefore legitimate: how can we respond to inflation that gnaws the power to live, and how can we support the most fragile French people in this period of economic recovery? I am elected from a territory, Corsica, where the question of expensive life arises acutely and I know that fighting against expensiveness requires fine action on several levers. Where we find ourselves is that, in some cases, the intervention of public authorities is necessary, but we differ on the solutions you propose. A first lever aims to combat inflation by allowing price freezes in the event of a social emergency; the second lever extends to the metropolis the regulation of the selling prices in force in the overseas. If I share its ambition and understand its logic, I do not know whether these are effective tools to solve the difficulties of our citizens. With regard to article 1, we know that the Government already has, as has been pointed out, tools to limit the rise in the prices of certain essential goods. He also made use of it, when he deemed it necessary, at the beginning of the health crisis to curb the prices of hydro-alcoholic gels, for example. Therefore, the criterion of social urgency that you wish to add to article L. 410-2 of the Commercial Code is probably superfetal and could even be a vector of legal instability. As for the arrangements for controlling prices in the overseas territories, they respond to the specific challenges of these territories, but it remains to be shown that they can be equally effective in the very different context of the metropolis. [[Applause on a few benches of the GDR group]] Beyond these reservations, we share the same fight: the fight against poverty, the fight for a more just, more supportive society. That is the point.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u154	The general discussion is closed. The next speaker is the alternate rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u155	I go back to the gallery to answer the speakers, otherwise I cannot remove my mask. It is very painful to follow a discussion with a mask. [[Laughs on all benches]] [[Rires on the benches of the FI group]] I would like to thank all the colleagues who have given their opinion on the draft law of the La France group. It seemed to me that their words sometimes lacked nuance. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I just want to point out a small element that should change your reasoning: this country is under an embargo, which I believe until now is not the case with France. I won't say any more, because it made us all smile, and it makes you smile because you don't believe it. Deputy Minister, I must also tell you that the people who proposed this bill were not meant to increase unemployment, ruin, misery, poverty, and the nuclear winter. We can still talk to each other without resorting to such caricatures. You have noticed that I have made the effort not to make the Government responsible for the 300,000 additional poor,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u156	And yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u157	... people who are cold, people who are hungry, people who can't move. I could have done that, but it seemed to me that my role as rapporteur led me to proceed differently. My colleague, Ugo Bernalicis, has been responsible for telling you the true truths, and I feel free of them. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Someone said that our text is part of an electoral campaign: yes, it is not a shame, when you are a democrat, to participate in an electoral campaign, and it is not a shame to do so in the National Assembly, which is the heart of democracy in this country, ninety days before a very large election. I'm proud of it, I respect people, I respect voters. Let us come to the arguments that are opposed to us on the substance. First, it seems that many of you have not fully perceived the fact that the authors of this text do not propose a permanent price control provision. It was you who did it for more than thirty or forty years. I should like to remind you that prices were, in fact, controlled until 1986, and that it was after that date that this measure was repealed. Did you then notice any shortages, did you hear that soon after the prices had exploded? Of course not, because the situation of a country that imports everything it consumes is totally different. I would believe that if we established a permanent price control in France, we would have a problem since we import 80% of what we eat, but that is not the case. This is a temporary and exceptional measure, which takes note of a situation, that of a state of social emergency. Several of you, including Mr. Kasbarian, Mr. Viry and Ms. Crouzet, replied that I had not described the state of emergency. But this is not necessary since this has already been done for the state of emergency against terrorism and the state of emergency against health. The state of emergency we are talking about corresponds to the same characteristics that apply in this type of situation, except that it applies to the social situation. That argument, therefore, does not stand against our bill. You are opposed to major structural measures. I do not intend to go into the details of what you call the big measures. Supposing they can work, which is not the case, they are long time, while I am talking to you about short time. It is today that people are filling up their gas, it is today that they have to buy pasta on which the profit margin is 40%. No one in this House finds that such a profit margin is normal when people are caught in the throat to feed their families. In these circumstances, the question of shortage arises, as I said earlier, only if there is a lack of production. On the other hand, when you set a price, you give visibility and it becomes a maximum price for everyone, which prohibits the agitation of selling 29 cents baguettes while bakers have to continue selling it more than 1 euro. Madam Deputy Minister, you referred to the Great Revolution and you said that the maximum was a total failure. It made me very funny to see a minister of the Republic taking back the arguments of the royalists of the time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u158	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u159	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Some laughs and exclamations on various benches]] It's strange, especially since it's not true, it didn't happen at all like that. Indeed, after the assassination of Maximilien Robespierre in July 1794, there was a huge popular explosion in 1795: people asked for the restoration of the maximum because the agiotors had taken advantage of it to raise prices in an incredible way. Moreover, the debate was not new. Many of you – forgive me if I don't read every time the list that I have carefully kept of those who put forward arguments in their intervention – have put forward the market economy: I hope no one believes it is a new debate, because, before the Great Revolution, the debate between Turgot and Necker was already on this point. Necker's supporters said this: you can always say that it is the law of supply and demand, except that the one who asks for what to buy bread, wants it right away because he needs to eat right away, while the one who stores the wheat, he can wait for the right time to sell it at the best price. This argument can be found in the sustenance law of 1792 – Mr Corbière, the sustenance law dates back to 1792, right? –, Robespierre having said: I don't care if I go to buy bright fabrics immediately if they are expensive, on the other hand, it is immediately that I have to buy my bread. It is not true that there is a snapshot of the law of supply and demand for products that concern survival: one cannot postpone the moment when it consumes them when the other can store and wait for the right prices. I do not believe that the market can really be a regulator of production in all circumstances. The market alone is chaos: it is the cause of current shortages and inflation. The search for the lowest production prices has led to an ever longer chain of interdependence, so that wood is harvested in one place, treated to another and assembled to a third to make furniture. These chains have been so extensive that the pandemic has been able to cut them, preventing the circulation of raw materials and finished products. Their breakdown is the main cause of the current inflation of wood, iron and construction materials. Inflation is also due to the abundance of the monetary sign. You are not going to tell me that it is because of the breakdown of supply chains that the United States of America is experiencing a 4.2-point increase in inflation. It is simply because they have put into circulation a huge amount of money that does not meet any particular commodity. In France, inflation is not explained by changes in labour prices since it has not increased. Its causes are due to the movement and production of goods. How can you not see him? Why don't you understand that the price freeze that we are proposing is intended to contain a phenomenon that puts the labour force, to speak in purely economic terms, in an incredible mess, to facilitate people's lives by giving them a little monetary margin and thus to fuel the number one factor of growth in our country, popular consumption? It's nothing but economic data! Let us assume that we have a debate on this point, but let us not put forward, in an abstract way, the market economy by pretending that it would be called into question by my proposal. Of course she's being questioned, but not by my proposal. When Emmanuel Macron decides to block the price of hydro-alcoholic gels, it is not because he wants to fight the market economy, which is rather his thing, but because we find ourselves in an exceptional situation. That is why we are making such a proposal, colleagues. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] You are abusing us by throwing in the face any shortages that may occur. But the shortage of housing, it was not us who caused it, it was you! The shortage of consumer goods is not us, it is you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u160	It's clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u161	You have taken these examples, let me take them back. In the name of what, our price freeze would create a problem? If there is a problem, it is because you let the market economy into all compartments. You have put forward long-term reasons, which I do not want to discuss now. Of course, we do not agree on the market economy. You are convinced that free and undistorted competition is the driving force behind history and the formation of the right price. I do not believe it and many of us do not believe it, so many that even the president of the Mouvement des entreprises de France (MEDEF), in his latest book L'Intendance will follow! , explains, on page 99, that only planning can cope with the ecological transition. We are not going to reproduce here the old 17th century maxims on free and undistorted competition: it does not work! Several of you have rightly stressed that price blocking is not compatible with the European Treaties. We can accommodate it, can't we? We wouldn't be the first to use the opt-out. From the countries that come out of the treaties and regulations, there are packages of them, from NATO, defence, the single currency, collective property – Germany has thus refused that water production should be subject to competition. Don't tell us that would be impossible! We are a great nation and, in an emergency situation, we can make such decisions. In my presidential programme, I propose to get out of the European treaties, no matter what the cost and no matter what. But, in this bill, we are planning emergency measures: people need to eat, warm up, move around. If they can't, their life is just survival. Of course, if you want to go further, just elect me! So I am right: the price freeze is not compatible with the European treaties. [[Thierry Benoit takes off his mask for a moment and smiles]] Mr Benoit, you are referring to social VAT. I don't come out of the egg: it's a measure that I've already heard about and it's not just happiness for those who proposed it. Why? Because it has been referred to on several occasions as a source of funding for social security. And I like to tell you that, even if you come to me with your most delicious smile to propose to me to put it in place, I am well informed enough to say no right now! And I can see you're smiling! Moreover, if it were based on basic necessities, it would not be compatible with the European Treaties either. So I note that you are right: a good policy decided by the French people can only be applied if we go beyond the European treaties. But here I propose not to leave Europe, because you would faint, but simply to resort to the opt-out that would at least allow us to apply what we decide. The Germans don't bother. They go to the Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe, whose judges always give the same answer: the Bundestag is right; The others, fuck you! And they do so almost every two years, when measures contradict them. Let's do the same! I did not think that our proposal would give rise to such wide-ranging discussions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u162	Oh, yes, I do!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u163	I repeat: this is an urgent step to be taken in the face of the situation in which hundreds, thousands and millions of our compatriots are placed. You see, I don't know how this country stands right now. The price of fuel is higher than it had reached at the beginning of the yellow vest crisis. One thing must be realized: given the ever more concentrated way in which our territory is organized, the number one need of all those living in peri-urban areas is to be able to move, not for pleasure, but because all the services they need to produce and reproduce their material existence are insanely scattered, so that they have to travel 5 to 10 kilometres each time they want to access it. Blocking the price of fuel would ruin no one. I would point out that our proposal does not provide for sale at a loss. Believe me, TotalEnergies which has made 73 billion profits – 73 million, rather, I may exaggerate, I see experts waving behind the bench of the Government – let's say comfortable profits, would not be unhappy if we applied this measure. Moreover, if you were to show some urgency to the urgency of the situation, you could mobilize the strategic stock and sell fuel in certain areas at a price that allows people to move around. The response to the question that the Government has done everything it needs so far and will continue to do so is not up to date! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] Our bill is only justified by urgency, and it only makes sense as a matter of urgency. It is clear that, in the longer term, a permanent price freeze mechanism could not be effective, we are well aware of that. That is not what we are proposing in this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u164	I now call the articles of the bill in the text originally before the House, since the committee has not adopted any text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u165	On Article 1, I am seized by the group La France insoubted of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mr Jean-Hugues Ratenon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u166	The cost of life is not just a problem of cost to purchase, it is a real problem of society, behind which are the moral misery and despair. How many families, most often mothers, count the rooms every day? How many parents are looking for all the tricks to not show their sufferings to their children or to deprive themselves of meals so that they can give the little they have to their little ones? Not to see this is to live on another planet, it is to refuse to look, it is to be in denial to give yourself good conscience. Madam Deputy Minister, saying that this text raises the right question, but brings the wrong answer, while your government has done nothing to remedy this situation, is unacceptable. No, I don't believe in a society of selfish and dishonest rich. The elected representative who presents himself to the public, who seeks the sanction of universal suffrage, must enter into a moral contract: he must serve the public interest, protect the poorest and act to defend them against abuse. Not to do so is to be dishonesty towards those who have been asked to vote. This article calls for price freezes, a kind of shield to protect the most exposed, the poorest. If you adopt it, it will certainly not settle everything, but if you do not vote it, you will choose not to do anything. One observation is necessary: poverty continues to develop in France, particularly in the overseas regions, which shows that Macron's few purely electoralist measures have not had any effect, whether they are occasional aid schemes or provisions concerning the cost of living. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] In the face of this failure of the President, you must make a gesture, waiting for a new governance: vote this article!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u167	We shall now proceed to the amendments. Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u168	It is intended to regulate the price of water. This resource is indispensable to life and we must consider it a common good: whoever we are in society, three days without water and death. Water is not a resource like any other. Colleagues, you should be alerted by what is happening in the world: in California, it is now possible to speculate on water; Australia, which was the first country in the world to establish a water market in 1994, suffered the dramatic consequences of this choice during the megafires of 2019, during which companies preferred to sell water at gold prices to producers of almonds destined for export rather than contributing to extinguishing fires and saving human or animal lives. We cannot leave water in the hands of the market. The tariffs to which it is sold must be regulated. I have alerted you several times in this House on the right to water and sanitation, which has now been flouted in our country. In Hexagon alone, 300,000 people do not have access to water. Mayotte is going through the worst water crisis in our country. In Guadeloupe, the whole population suffers from a shortage of water: cuts are carried out, in violation of the right to water since they are prohibited since a law passed under a previous legislature, and families find themselves with bills of 5000, 6,000, 7,000 euros that they cannot pay and are faced with reductions in flow, while only 30% of the huge quantities of water that have been made drinking arrive at their taps. It is unacceptable not to tackle the problem of water prices! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group and a few benches of the GDR group]] Finally, in the midst of a health crisis, guaranteeing the right to water is the first of the health policies to be put in place, since water allows everyone to wash their hands.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u169	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u170	Personally, I am in favour of this amendment, but the committee is against it and only its opinion counts.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u171	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u172	Unfavorable notice for a simple reason: what you are asking for is already possible. The legislation is rather well done in regulating the price of water. This amendment is therefore unnecessary. The law "engagement and proximity" of 27 December 2019 has perpetuated the system of social pricing of water for households benefiting from social housing that the Brottes law of 15 April 2013 had created on an experimental basis.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u173	The excellent François Brottes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u174	The same law prohibited water cuts and the reduction of access to water. So you can say that our law is being misapplied, but it is not an amendment to the law that will correct the situation. Once again, on the one hand, we have concrete action and, on the other, the words.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u175	I don't rule!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u176	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u177	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Perhaps there is nothing to prevent such measures from being taken, Madam Deputy Minister, but there is no doubt that there is a serious lack of political will! I'm going to tell you: with social pricing, you are setting up, as with all other rights, an impossibility of recourse. On the contrary, we propose the free volume of water necessary for a dignified life, and then a price differentiated according to usage, because it is not the same thing to use water to fill a swimming pool, for economic purposes or to drink. I chaired the committee of inquiry on the control of water resources by private interests and its consequences, composed of thirty Members from all sides. This must be ten times that they and we ask for the trigger in Mayotte or Guadeloupe of the ORSEC plan – organization of the civil safety response – Drinking water, which provides for the distribution of drinking water bottles, in order to remedy the cuts. You systematically refuse it, using pretexts that are more misleading to each other. The reality of your action is that you leave people without water! [[Applause on the benches of the FI and GDR groups]] As far as water pricing is concerned, the report of the committee of inquiry – of which I repeat, Members from all groups, including the Republic on the move and the Republicans – calls for free access to the first cubic metres, which are essential for life. What you do is not follow any recommendations, gargarize yourself with what exists and continue to flout the right to water!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u178	I call Mr Bastien Lachaud to support Amendment No. 6.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u179	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] With this amendment, we want to incorporate energy into this bill to block prices. Energy insecurity is a real scourge in our country: nearly 5 million homes are thermal colanders! At the end of the month, millions of French citizens have to pay unworthy bills for electricity or gas, amounting to hundreds or thousands of euros, but they do not cease to be cold or to see their sanitary facilities moisturized because they cannot heat them properly. In 2019, in 300,000 households, electricity was cut or its power reduced due to unpaid bills; If gas cuts are added, the total amounts to almost 700000 interventions. That is the situation, and that is why it is essential to regulate energy prices.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u181	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The committee is against, the rapporteur is in favour, which will not surprise anyone. However, I would add, out of respect for the dignity of the parliamentarian that I am, and perhaps for the dignity of others, that the Deputy Minister cannot object to an opponent whom he speaks while the Government acts. Precisely, we are the opposition, and if we come to Parliament, it is to talk: those who want to keep quiet stay at home! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Same movements]] What are you blaming us for? Do you want us to launch a putsch in Martinique or Guadeloupe, take the water ourselves, borrow the equipment to install pipes? What else can we do, when we respect democracy, than to go to the Chamber to propose, to argue? You disagree, we hear it; you are the majority, we admit it; But don't tell us we're talking while you're acting. All I'm asking is to act in my turn. Madam Deputy Minister, you're leaving, I'm taking your place: you'll see if I can't do it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u182	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u183	[[Mrs Marie-George Buffet]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on FI banks]] Unfavorable opinion. I take this opportunity to clarify my thinking: we have passed the law, and you are coming with an amendment whose content is already included in the law. So all this is just words! Ms Panot proposes what she thinks is a step forward: I am not sure I agree, but I simply note that this is not at all what is included in the bill. Subjecting Members of Parliament to provisions that already exist is objectively time lost for everyone!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u184	[[Applause on the benches of the GDR and FI groups. – Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM Group]] The Assembly, any time lost? What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u185	Mrs Caroline Fiat has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u186	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] So we're going to waste time talking about the lives of our fellow citizens! There are fireplaces in France where electricity is cut or its power is reduced. However, the National Energy Ombudsman has called for a year-round ban on these practices. We hear here and there that there are no more cuts: there are less because people don't heat up. Knowing that they will not be able to pay the bill, they do not turn on their radiator, live in a single room, take care of the slightest use of electricity in their housing. Many of them are in this case, and I can tell you that it's very cold at home: I've lived it – perhaps I'm not the only one here. This is unacceptable! No, we do not waste our time talking about such situations: when we have found ourselves in this situation, when we are in it, we can see how unworthy it is!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u187	I put Article 1 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u188	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 86 Number of votes cast 85 Absolute majority 43 For adoption 24 Against 61
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u189	The next speaker is Mr Ugo Bernalicis, in support of Amendment No 1 on the additional Rule after Rule 1.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u190	It will please you, Madam Deputy Minister, because its content is not yet included in the legislation. Of course, I grant you that things are going on less magically in the National Assembly than in production chains or large companies, but respect the parliamentary debate a little! This amendment resulting from the hearings held in committee, in particular those concerning the French Guiana community, aims to integrate the retail markets into the framework of overseas prices, article L. 410-3 of the Commercial Code relating only to wholesale markets, so that between them and the final distribution there are still people to capture the added value. This is a limit of the price-quality shield which has been reported to us in the territories concerned, particularly, I repeat, in Guyana. It is therefore important to complete the scheme, not by regulating everything, but by creating the possibility of doing so, in order to respond to a concrete problem. [[Same movements]] Finally, Madam Minister-in-Office, I would like to take advantage of the few seconds of speaking time left to make it clear that the National Energy Ombudsman is calling for the end of power cuts, not only during the winter truce, but throughout the year, because this is an essential product.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u191	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u192	My personal opinion is extremely favourable. This proposal derives from experience; it comes from the ground; It would improve the system by making it more efficient and flexible – on matters as important as this one, collective intervention eases things up and, in particular, avoids sale at a loss in the event of price freezes. The committee, for its part, opposes this: my duty as rapporteur is to tell you about it, which in fact deprives its chairman of an opportunity to greed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u193	[[Smile]] I would have done it with greed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u194	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u195	Let us be clear: the difficulties faced by precarious populations in accessing water and energy are indeed a subject of debate. Mr Mélenchon recalled several historical facts and put into perspective, politically, different economic models, which is indeed an interesting discussion. On the other hand, I cannot fail to inform you that you have just tabled three amendments, the provisions of which are already included in the law! You want to introduce in article L. 410-3 of the Commercial Code the possibility of regulating prices in retail markets, which appears in article L. 410-2, applicable in Hexagon as overseas! Moreover, there is a specific regime for regulating the retail price of basic necessities in the ultramarine territories. I am sorry to resort to legislating, but, I repeat, my duty is to tell you that the amendment is satisfied and that, therefore, if it is not withdrawn, the Government's opinion will be unfavourable – for the third time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u196	You're here to answer us, you know! You're not doing us a favor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u197	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u198	So the Guyanans invented the problems that legitimize this amendment? Madam Deputy Minister, perhaps you should go and see them on the spot. Perhaps you should also read the texts you think you know: you confuse Article 1 of the bill, which refers to Article L. 410-2 of the Commercial Code, which provides for emergency measures which limit the duration to six months – a limit which we would like to delete – and Articles L. 410-3, L. 410-4 and L. 410-5 of the same code, which concern perennial devices. Within the framework of the price-quality shield, prefectures face difficulties in regulating retail markets, which cannot all be regulated: I am thinking in particular of fuel. We propose to respond to this, by making the law clearer, not so much with respect to article L. 410-2 – this is not the subject here – but by supplementing the architecture formed by articles L. 410-3 et seq., by putting an end to the uncertainty about the possibility of regulating certain retail markets. End of story!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u199	It's clear and clear!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u200	Mr Adrien Quatennens has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u201	The purpose of this bill is to respond to an emergency situation, something that you yourself are customary, and we regularly waste, especially during this period of health crisis, texts that are supposed to belong to this category. Here, the emergency is social. Will you deny it, Madam Deputy Minister? In our country, more than 10 million people live below the poverty line, 8 million need food aid, 12 million suffer the consequences of energy poverty. Do you know what reality lies behind these figures? That of women and men for whom everyday life is made of anguish, who wonder if they will be able to feed themselves properly or honor their bills. Do you know the syndrome of the fear of the mailbox, have you ever experienced it?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u202	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u203	That is what many of our fellow citizens are experiencing. Jean-Luc Mélenchon has spared you a presentation about your infirmity, your share of responsibility in this situation. Since the beginning of the quinquennium, all the tax measures taken by the Government have essentially benefited the most wealthy individuals and the largest companies – your area of competence, Madam Minister Delegate. While these islets of wealth are increasingly concentrated, the quarter-world is growing.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u204	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u205	At the beginning of his term of office, we put on President Macron the label of "President of the Rich"; In the end, we measure how right we were. Article 2 therefore provides for the extension to the whole territory of the arrangements currently reserved for overseas: price-quality shield and price freezes for basic necessities, starting with five seasonal fruits and vegetables, so that all our citizens can comply with the daily injunction issued by the media.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u206	We must conclude, Mr. Quatennens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u207	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Do not vote for this article would deny the reality of the social emergency in our country!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u208	May I remind you that the time limit for speakers on this item is two minutes. Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u209	I shall respect the time allowed, Mr President. Article 2 aims to extend exceptional legislation, designed for overseas purposes, to the metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u210	Give us news of Caracas!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u211	Not in Caracas, of course, Mr. Mélenchon... I would remind you, however, that these devices have been designed for the ultramarine territories because their economy is specific: islanders almost exclusively, hence the impossibility of accessing these territories other than by sea or by air, which increases the cost of transport and therefore the prices in supermarkets. Overseas economies are also small and their markets often fall short of profitability thresholds. The number of economic operators is limited, which favours mergers and monopoly situations. The market context is therefore not the same as in metropolitan France, which is why regulation was introduced in 2012: it was to put in place arrangements specific to the overseas sector to respond to a particular economic context. [[Mr. Jean-René Cazeneuve applauds]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] You are proposing today, ladies and gentlemen, to extend this regulation to the whole of the city by explaining that this system is working very well. I note, Mr Mélenchon, a sort of paradox: you are one of the first to constantly tell us that everything is going wrong overseas, that regulation is not working there, that prices are too high and that purchasing power is collapsing. Yet you think, if I understand correctly, that you have found the martingale: the regulatory mechanism would work so well in your opinion, having allowed inflation to be contained and the purchasing power to be maintained overseas, that you would like it to be extended to the metropolis! It seems paradoxical to me to say that everything is going badly overseas and to find suddenly a fantastic provision in the existing legislation, which should be extended to the metropolis! Either everything goes wrong overseas, Mr Mélenchon, or you have found the martingale – you have to choose one of the two options!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u212	On Article 2, I am seized by the group La France insoubted of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u213	This is a precise amendment. The new wording of articles L. 410-3 et seq. of the commercial code that we propose in the text states that the price of a product cannot be lower than its cost of production – which seems to be obvious to everyone. At their hearing, however, the representatives of the Peasant Confederation indicated to us that they preferred the term "cost cost" because it included, beyond cost, the fair remuneration of the producer. While this is not a major change, it is important, in our view, for the prospects it opens up and for the idea it conveys: the price-quality shield is not intended to draw prices at the lowest possible level but to ensure that they are discussed collectively by the producer, intermediary, distributor and final consumer – the State acting as arbitrator in setting the final price. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I would add, Mr Kasbarian, that the ultramarine territories are not fighting for the abolition of the price-quality shield and the abolition of the OPMR! This device is the result of fighting against expensive life, and the latest struggles in the ultramarine territories aim to expand the price-quality shield to include more products. I tell you very quietly: if this arrangement did not exist, the situation would be even worse than it is at present. And if it is not sufficiently functioning, it is because the prefecture – therefore the government – has taken the political decision not to make full use of it, as it might be: it is therefore the responsibility of the majority and the executive.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u214	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u215	We must congratulate Mr Bernalicis on his demand for precision. And on a subject like this, we will all agree that this clarification is necessary: it is a question of setting prices that allow producers to survive. Mr Bernalicis is therefore right to rely on the demonstration given to him by a producer union. It is therefore important to be precise. Mrs Bernalicis told us earlier that Mr Bernalicis was simply proposing arrangements that already exist. As rapporteur, I must say that this is not the case. The article L. 410-3 of the trade code which she mentioned, which I have just consulted, does indeed indicate that prices can be blocked but precise – expressis verbis – that it is aimed at "wholesale market malfunctions" and not retail markets, on which MP Bernalicis spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u216	I'm talking about both!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u217	The price freeze in the retail markets was therefore not foreseen, and Mr Bernalicis did not speak to say nothing. I appreciated your joke, Mr Kasbarian, even though the opposition you are making is a bit formal. I will tell you why prices are not satisfactory and why committees must be set up to monitor them: it is because of the import monopoly which, together with the granting of the sea, produces an effect of constraint which no one knows how to consume. The granting of the sea is indeed necessary to finance local authorities and to establish a tax – protectionist, when you think about it – on local productions. Personally, I am for the iron hand and for the total protection of local production, especially food. Indeed, as long as a chicken arriving from Europe in pieces, packaged and labelled with a bar code, will cost less than a chicken running in the countryside, there will clearly be no viable farming overseas. There is then, Mr Kasbarian, the question of the multiplier coefficient. If you analyse the difference between the price of the goods when it comes down from the boat and its price in the shelves, you will find that this coefficient is absolutely implausible! This is what makes it necessary to organise a control: the economy of the islands, if it is completely open, can only lead to this situation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u218	Thank you, Mr. Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u219	By making these territories its hubs to neighbouring continents, Europe is contributing to this situation! We have to change all this! By remaining within the framework of the dear freedom of trade and free and undistorted competition, we will never obtain any other economic result overseas: we do not produce locally, we do what we can with the granting of the sea and, in the end, we must control the prices without which no one can live on these islands!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u220	You must conclude, Mr. President Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u221	And don't think that the situation is better in Hexagon: out of 1 euro received at the sale, a peasant gets only 8 cents! Here too, a small screw trick would not hurt to reset the meters to zero. I talked about pasta earlier: who can find this normal situation?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u222	Thank you, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u223	The draftsman gives his opinion! We listen to him, it's interesting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u224	He must give it with respect for speaking time.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u225	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] The committee is against the amendment: one word is enough to sum up its opinion. Instead, listen to the explanations in favour of the amendment, ladies and gentlemen, because they can help to take into account the misery of our compatriots.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u226	Thank you very much for your clarification, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u227	The rapporteur has a good report!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u229	Thank you for reading article L. 410-3 of the Commercial Code, Mr.President Mélenchon, which actually relates to wholesale markets. Perhaps you did not listen to me, however, when I quoted another article, article L. 410-2, which applies to the retail markets to which Mr Bernalicis wanted to extend the price freeze. I suggest you read it, since you like precision: "...in sectors or areas where price competition is limited due to either monopoly situations or lasting supply difficulties, or legislative or regulatory provisions, a decree in Council of State may regulate prices after consultation with the Autorité de la concurrence. So it seems to me, Mr. Speaker Mélenchon, Mr. Bernalicis, that the existing text does not address specific situations and that it allows for a perfect response to the issues at stake. Mr Bernalicis' Amendment No 1 was therefore superfate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u230	No!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u231	As far as Amendment No 4 is concerned, he is also, alas, superfate. I'm so sorry, Mr. Bernalicis, and I'll give you the technical explanation. The current framework is already very comprehensive. First, a distributor cannot buy its products from a producer at a price lower than the cost of production, as it would be an unfairly low selling price – this is set out in Article L. 442-7 of the Commercial Code. Second, once the product has been purchased, the producer cannot sell it at a loss, as stated in article L. 442-5 of the same code. By construction, a distributor cannot resell fruit and vegetables at an abusively low price, characterized by taking into account in particular the indicators of production costs – of which you know how important the EGALIM law has also given them. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u232	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u233	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u234	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u235	Article L. 410-2 deals with price freezes for reasons of urgency or monopoly. This arrangement shall be limited in time and shall not exceed six months; This is why the prices of masks and hydro-alcoholic gel have not been blocked any longer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u236	The price freeze has been renewed, Mr. Bernalicis!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u237	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Articles L. 410-3, L. 410-4 and L. 410-5 refer to permanent devices intended for ultramarine territories. You can say, Madam Deputy Minister, that they apply to retail markets: yes, but on time, not on a permanent basis! Guyana, for example, is facing this problem not on an ad hoc basis but all the time! All the time! That is why we are proposing an amendment. You don't want to understand it. I hope so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u238	The amendment was not superfetal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u239	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u240	It aims to enshrine in the law – in this case in articles L. 410-3, L. 410-4 and L. 410-5 of the Commercial Code, so that everyone follows – an excellent find on the island of Réunion, following the mobilization of the yellow vests. They called for the involvement of people drawn by lot in the work of the OPMR, with a view to broadening the debate, making it clearer and increasing transparency. The participation of citizens in the discussions also helps to legitimise the OPMR. The Secretary-General for Regional Affairs (SGAR), who presented the scheme to us, said himself very pleased that citizens were represented, stressing that the discussions were no longer only between producers and distributors. There is now a third party – the people, in this case – that is welcome around the table and that has been able to demonstrate, for example, how logical it was to extend the price freeze to 153 products – perhaps tomorrow to 250, as the inhabitants of the island claim. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] These citizens were also able to share with the OPMR the experience of the field: when the device does not work, it is also because there are no climbs from the ground! In La Réunion, the useful was therefore joined to the pleasant. We propose that the operative system be included in the law so that it can at least be extended to the whole of the overseas region, even to Hexagonia and to France as a whole if you adopt the bill as a whole, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u241	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u242	The rapporteur is in favour of the amendment. I will use, Madam Minister Delegate, an argument "to the Guillaume Kasbarian": we must choose! Either what we say is worth nothing, and we must vote against our proposal. Either the technical measures already appear in the law, as you say: in this case, what prevents you from voting on our text, if everything is already planned?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u243	It's super-fetatory!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u244	You'd have to know! I was told in detail that our text ran counter to the market economy, that it was going to ruin the country and create shortages. But you are telling us, Madam Deputy Minister, that the devices are already in the law! No, that's not the case, Mr. Bernalicis just explained it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u245	We're gonna vote for laws that already exist!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u246	It is for the coherence of the debate. There is only one thing you are refusing to recognize, colleagues, is the situation of social emergency. You're a thinker, aren't you? How is that possible? [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] If the arrangements are already in the law, Madam Deputy Minister, then vote on our text: there is no objection to it being adopted, on the contrary! It shows that the majority understands that there is a social emergency. As for the committee, it is against the amendment, without surprise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u247	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u248	As I indicated in the general discussion, I am opposed to the text as a whole. We are now discussing the amendments that are intended to supplement it. Unsurprisingly – and I am sorry – this amendment is also unnecessary, since the Commercial Code already provides for the quality-price shield to be developed in close consultation with stakeholders. It is after an opinion of the local price, margin and income observatory, in which local consumer associations sit, that the prefect starts negotiations on the shield. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Perhaps it could be considered to choose citizens by a vote, but that is not what your amendment provides for, Mr Bernalicis. You are proposing that the text should refer to a consumer representative body: it seems to me that it is called a consumer association. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u249	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u250	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] I will repeat: the mechanism has been put in place at La Réunion as the law stands, which does not say anything about it. The yellow vests wanted citizens to be drawn by lot and the prefect agreed, on his own initiative, to meet their demand – it doesn't always happen that way! The device has been set up, it works: so much the better! We propose, by including it in the law, that it does not depend on the goodwill of any prefect, but that it be set up everywhere! It is up to us, legislators, to say that we must put it in place and not the executive to choose where and how! It is essential that you hear, Madam Deputy Minister, that when we write the law, we want to be able to deploy devices that have worked in certain places everywhere, because that seems desirable to us. I don't know if you're being sent uphill, but maybe it's time to call the prefectures in the area!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u251	Mr Guillaume Kasbarian has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u252	Your argument, Mr. Mélenchon, fully validates what I said earlier. You described the situation in the overseas regions by stressing that this was a particular market situation, because of the existence of import monopolies. You even based your argument on this particularity. I am telling you exactly the same thing and I would add that it is for this reason that the legislation which applies in the overseas countries is not intended to apply in metropolitan France, which is not in a situation of import monopoly! What is the interest in using, as your proposed law provides, a mechanism designed and imagined for an economy whose specificities you have described very well, to apply it to a more global market including the metropolis? The market situation is not the same at all. You stressed it yourself: the context and the problems are different. Your argument, Mr. Mélenchon, therefore validates precisely what I have told you. I do not see the consistency of Article 2, which aims to apply a system in general when situations are specific.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u253	I call Mr Bernalicis to support Amendment No. 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u254	All markets have their specificity, and not just those of overseas markets, because of their remoteness or, for the most part, their insularity: there are specificities also in Hexagon. If the price of cake increases, it is due not to the French production price, but to the pressure exerted on the international butter market by China's considerable demand. This example shows that a number of markets where we are no longer sovereign have specific features. Specific responses are therefore needed. Rather than imposing the same price everywhere, the device we want to deploy uses collective intelligence, and that is why we proposed that it be fixed by a sample of citizens drawn by lot, but even that is too much for you, when it is already practiced in some places without you having to say anything, and it is happy. By this amendment, we propose that those who do not comply with the prefect's decisions under the price-quality shield should be subject to the penalties already provided for in the Consumer Code. This is not the case: while there is a price-quality shield, an OPMR, the prefect's decisions are not implemented. It's still amazing! And then you wonder why people claim a better application of the device! [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] It would therefore be a good idea to vote on this amendment, especially since, for the moment, I am on your ground: sanctions are still your thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u255	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u256	[[Smile]] The rapporteur is very enthusiastic about this amendment, but I would still like to reply to you about the overseas situation, so that we can understand each other well, Mr Kasbarian: that matters to me, since you are a Member of the majority. You therefore acknowledge that in Guadeloupe, Martinique, Réunion, Mayotte, the high price level is due to a monopolistic import system. It is this monopoly that poses a problem because we are obliged to invent all kinds of devices to restore what is not even a market price, but is the result of an evaluation made by the authority. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] We can therefore solemnly declare in this House that the problem of the economies of the island and remote territories is the monopoly of production and import for the benefit of the dominant class of these territories. We took a big step and they're gonna be really happy to learn it there! I am sure they will ask the Government what measures it intends to take to remedy this situation. In fact, you did not discuss the substance of the matter. What is at stake in this situation is not the monopoly in itself, if not in the social sphere, but the shortage it creates. What is at stake is the shortages that are artificially maintained. In this case, it is a shortage by price. The price of energy is an example. Its fixation has no mystery: production costs and production conditions are known, distribution costs are known, as are the quantities consumed, to the nearest caulia, from year to year. How do you explain then that this price jumps, otherwise either by an effect of speculation, or by a shortage that has been sustained? Have you heard that one of your good market-price friends, Saudis, Americans or others, have decided to increase the amount of oil they extract? No, and why? Because it's enough and they enjoy a bounty effect. What disorganizes the market is their speculation. [[Same movements]] As for the price of electricity, Mr Le Maire himself explained it to you, and on this point we are absolutely converging: it is established on the basis of an absurd rule which makes it result from the wholesale price of gas, which does not concern the French for the most part. It is therefore the import of inflation that is imposed on us absolutely without reason by the European market mechanism. So it is the market that creates chaos, not price blocking and planning. The committee is against the amendment, but I am not.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u257	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u258	It's pretty cruel, but the device you're proposing is already covered by the code you're referring to. Under Article L. 131-5 of the Consumer Code, any failure to comply with the provisions of Article L. 112(1) of the Code is subject to administrative penalties – in this case a fine of 3000 euros for a natural person and 15,000 euros for a legal person. However, Article L. 112-1 refers to all labelling devices and to all conditions of the price-quality shield. Since your amendment is already satisfied with the provisions of the Commercial Code, it is an unfavourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u259	I put Rule 2 to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u260	The people's friends will vote for it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u261	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 97 Number of votes cast 96 Absolute majority 49 For adoption 22 Against 74
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u262	As all the articles and amendments to the additional article have been rejected, the bill as a whole is itself rejected.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u263	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u264	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u265	The next item is the proposal for a constitutional law to introduce a right of dismissal of elected officials (No. 4751, 4863).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u266	Mr Alexis Corbière, Rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Laws, Legislation and General Administration of the Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u267	Article 2 of our Constitution lays down the principle of "government of the people, by the people and for the people". A wide-ranging discussion of how this principle applies. The great Jaurès said: "We have won universal suffrage. We still have to conquer popular sovereignty. It's all there. Everyone knows that it is not enough for universal suffrage to exist to be the best expression of popular sovereignty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u268	The purpose of this proposed constitutional law is precisely to give a legal reality to the words of Jaurès, by granting citizens, voters, the right to remove elected representatives, so that the expression of the will of the people does not merely drag a ballot into the ballot box on the occasion of an election deadline, without the possibility of intervention between two deadlines. The Fifth Republic, born under the threat of a coup d'état, has recently celebrated its 60th birthday. However, the system on which it is based is deeply in crisis: refusing to admit it and refusing to act in order to change it is in truth jeopardizing the very idea of the Republic. In the 2017 general election, from which we all came, almost one in two voters did not vote. Other electoral deadlines followed, which confirmed this heavy trend: the abstention rate was 70 per cent in the regional elections and almost equivalent in the municipal elections. In such circumstances, where is the expression of the will of the people, that principle according to which the elected representatives would represent it and would be the translation of a government "by the people and for the people"? Can we continue to ignore this cold insurgency against the institutions – the health waves having only magnified this movement? Let us pay attention to the fact that more and more French people consider that the democratic system is blocked. We must respond because the unacceptable violence that has taken place recently is also a manifestation of this blockage. We must propose peaceful methods of expression, grant our fellow citizens new rights so that this blockage does not be expressed again through violence, death threats that some of us have been the target of – not only your servant, but also many Members of Parliament from France who are insoubted and, I know, the majority. Ninety days before the presidential election, the constitutional bill that I have the honour to defend is designed to respond to the political situation that has been identified: that of democratic urgency. Electors must have new rights in order to be able to control their representatives, in order to move from a culture of distrust to a culture of control exercised by citizens over their representatives. The present text is therefore based on this finding and the right to revoke is one of the solutions – perhaps the central solution – that could restore the taste for voting and that would mark the end of a form of political impunity, starting with that of the President of the Republic, who, constitutionally, is irresponsible before the voters and before the National Assembly. The right to revoke that we propose is not the mark of irresponsibility or instability: it is on the contrary the expression of our desire to give more responsibility to the people and to strengthen the link between representatives and representatives. Moreover, it would make the system stronger because, in reality, instability is already there. What is instability in fact? Everyone knows the physical phenomenon: is unstable a piece of furniture that rests on a weak base. How can we not see the weakness of the electoral social base when, as I recalled, only 30% of French people vote? We therefore propose the end of this irresponsibility, starting with that of the President of the Republic – I will come back to that later. Our proposal is not a marginal position: defended by candidate Jean-Luc Mélenchon in the last presidential election, it won the support of nearly 7 million French; It is supported by 75% of our citizens, who are interviewed in various opinion polls. Therefore, we would grant, by adopting it, a new democratic right that would encourage the involvement of voters and strengthen their link with the elected ones. Currently reduced to mere spectatorship, the voter is indeed reduced to a form of civic minority, when we want to make him a permanent player in political life, the real sovereign in all circumstances – and not, as I said, once every five years only. The goal is to create a virtuous circle in which the sovereign people would retain control over those who represent them. This principle would apply to all mandates, in particular that of the President of the Republic, who is currently not accountable to anyone and can sometimes flout or defy his own commitments. My remarks are not only addressed to the current President, but to much more. This is proof of the profound democratic injury that arose after a majority of the people spoke out on 29 May 2005 against a constitutional treaty, which was finally imposed on them. The injury is therefore present and it is this right of control that we want to strengthen. Some colleagues argue that this would reinforce a form of instability – I mentioned this issue – and create a chaotic system – but I repeat that chaos is there since two thirds of voters are no longer moving to vote. They also fear that this arrangement will leave room for minority lobbies – I heard him in committee – that could weigh on elected officials. However, how can we not find that we are sometimes elected by only 20% of the voters in our electoral districts? We are no longer the expression of a majority share of the number of registered electors, and we cannot resolve this situation. The Constitution provides that "no section of the people" can exercise tyranny over the other: yet, at present, it is often a minority that elects those who exercise responsibilities. If we want to discuss the principle of revocation first and foremost, it is our belief that it will give new life to our institutions. Of course, we would really like to include it in a more general project, resulting from a Constituent Assembly within the framework of a VIth Republic. However, we want to discuss this with you today. The possibility of instituting the right of revocation is not a challenge or a way to implement the mandatory mandate – I will come back to that later in our discussions. Not at all. The imperative mandate, to which I am personally unfavorable, is not at the heart of my bill. That's another idea. It is conceivable that the elected representatives will deliberate and eventually take decisions that were not part of their original agenda. However, they must be accountable at all times to their constituents, that is, to the people. Our proposal therefore aims to create a right whereby, after a period corresponding to the first third of the term of office, a revocative referendum could be activated provided that a threshold representative of the electorate so wishes: this threshold, whose determination would be the subject of a technical discussion – 5%, 10%, 15%? – would be fixed by an organic law. However, it is on the principle of this possibility of revocation that we want to discuss with you. As I have just said, it could be activated after the first third of the beginning of the term but could not be applied during the last year of the term, in order not to create a permanent system of elections. Our will is to give the people a new democratic opportunity to intervene and eventually resume what they have given. This proposal is truly part of our national history: do not seek international examples that would have inspired us. For those who know the history of France, President Mélenchon spoke about it earlier by evoking the French Revolution; the right to recall elected representatives already existed in the various deliberative assemblies or communal assemblies during the Middle Ages; It was at the heart of certain proposals in the districts of the French Revolution and it was discussed at length at that time by our predecessors. This proposal circulated throughout the 19th century: it was mentioned on the occasion of the Paris Commune and was discussed by many fellow citizens – I am thinking in particular of the great Louis Blanc and Auguste Blanqui, who gave their names to French boulevards, but who were also great Republicans, fierce supporters of the right to remove the elected ones. This right also exists in many other countries: not only in three Andean countries, in 60 per cent of the States in the United States, but also in neighbouring countries comparable to ours. In the United Kingdom, for example, in the wake of various crises, our counterparts have recently introduced the possibility of revoking elected officials. The proposal that we are defending is therefore neither inapplicable, nor exotic or alien to our national history: it is the opposite. It is time to discuss this and say that as Members we would accept the principle. Not that we want it to necessarily apply to our personal case: I can understand that we are acting in such a way that we are not in a position to be subjected to a revoking referendum. But granting this right would, I repeat, make it possible to establish more virtuous relations with those of whom we are representatives. [[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] Finally, I would like to point out that, in accepting this principle of revocation, we would be faithful to the will expressed in article 15 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights of 1789: "Society has the right to ask any public official.... This is what we are asking: citizens must be able to hold to account; they must be able, under the conditions laid down in the texts, to revoke a person who represented them and of whom they no longer want. The people must be sovereign in all circumstances, and we must put an end to situations in which institutions are able to govern against them and at a distance from them. It is by adopting this bill that we will return to the great republican promise.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u269	The next speaker is Mr Custody of the Seals, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u270	The participation of our fellow citizens in the democratic life of our country is obviously an important debate. I will not surprise you, Mr rapporteur, if I tell you that I agree with your observation that our compatriots disaffection with political life is reflected in their abstention. Not only do I share it, but I regret it. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] You propose to move from a representative democracy to an imperative mandate. As a guardian of the seals, I would like to remind you that our democratic institutions are based on the free and fair expression of the people. It is simple, they were made to organize a "government of the people, by the people and for the people". This is the very principle of democracy, enshrined in article 2 of the Constitution. Since I refer to the texts, I would point out that Article 15 of the Declaration of Human and Citizen's Rights to which you alluded applies to officials and not to elected officials – this confusion has inadvertently crept into your speech, but it is not very serious. As I said, I am not unaware of the disaffection of the French for political life, a disaffection which has resulted in massive abstention in the last elections. But beyond the shared observation, your group gathered us this morning to discuss a proposal to respond, in your opinion, to this crisis of confidence. In this way, you want to introduce a right of dismissal of elected representatives – local elected officials, parliamentarians, President of the Republic – during their term of office, which would take place after a referendum of citizens' initiative. Unfortunately – this is where I am no longer following you and stop on the right path – I am not sure that your solution provides an effective response to the situation we know. Worse: I fear that it will aggravate it and inevitably undermine the essential principle underlying our Republic: that of representativeness. For if national sovereignty belongs to the people, they exercise it, in particular, by their representatives. Representative democracy is the direct legacy of the Revolution: that is, the appointment by the people of representatives appointed on their behalf to make the law that applies to all and, in a limited time. The legitimacy of these representatives lies in the fact that they are the custodians of popular sovereignty by the votes they have received; But, above all, in that it is regularly – I insist on this word – put into play so that in all circumstances the last word comes back to the people. In the current system, you are elected and have a term of office for a fixed period, at the end of which you decide either not to represent yourself – this sometimes happens – or to ask again for the votes of your compatriots in your constituency for example.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u271	Or the regionals!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u272	[[Exclaims on several benches in the FI group]] In regional elections or national elections – "Rira bien who will laugh the last"...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u273	May is coming!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u274	[[Smile]] I thought you were soothed, Mr. Bernalicis. You said it in front of a high-quality witness. Let's stay calm and kind. Rebroadcast this beautiful video that unites us in a romantic music of the best bill. So you want to represent yourself, and that is when the sanction comes in: either our compatriots are happy with your work, and you are re-elected; either they're not happy with it, and they're telling you. It's no more complicated than that. Representatives who are elected must then have the means to govern or to vote the law in accordance with their programme, under the penalty of betraying the democratic process. For this, they have a fixed time in which they are entrusted with the conduct of the policy of the nation or the voting of the law. It is absolutely essential that the elected representatives be able to act fully during this period, by virtue of the powers entrusted to them democratically. [[Smiles and exclamations on various benches]] I'll take an illustration. Since the President of the Republic is not a candidate for re-election at this stage, let us imagine that I decide to vote for Mr Mélenchon.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u275	Good idea!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u276	[["But no! » on the benches of the FI group]] Imaginary is the last refuge of freedom! So let's imagine that the citizen I am loves one of your measures, Mr. Mélenchon, but judges the other super-fetatories. You will exercise your mandate, you will have the text that I called for voted on, but as soon as you approach others, I will participate in a referendum to prevent you from continuing. That would be an indescribable mess! It is precisely for this reason that, since the Revolution, the imperative mandate has been prohibited. This achievement has never been called into question in our democratic history; The same applies to the representative regime: the Constitution recalls that it is based on trust given to the elected candidate for the duration of his or her term of office – that is what distinguishes us. In other words, the elected representative is legitimate because he is elected for the duration of his term of office: it is a pleonasm and a tautology, but it should be recalled. That is precisely what your proposed constitutional law would destroy, since it would be tantamount to putting elected representatives under the threat of active minorities. You mentioned the lobbies, those minorities who defend their own interests: with your law, they could trigger revocative referendums against elected officials who would not satisfy their demands. The elected representatives would be presumed both illegitimate and incapable of working with determination, in their soul and conscience, in favour of the general interest. It would be an organized democratic paralysis, a public life mixed with institutionalized suspicion and mistrust. At a time when elected officials are the targets of recurring attacks, let us at all costs guard against aggravating the situation. In these circumstances, how can decisions be made that are difficult but indispensable for the public interest? How can we reform against public opinion? In your system, Mr. Mélenchon, could a courageous president have voted for the abolition of the death penalty?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u277	Yes, by mobilizing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u278	[[Applause on various benches]] No, and you know very well: when this bill was passed, public opinion was opposed to it. Otherwise, at least a large number of major societal texts, now considered as fundamental achievements, could not have been voted on within your system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u279	That's totally wrong!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u280	Since we are doing the law here, I would point out that your proposal contains inaccuracies that would create legal uncertainty that is harmful to our institutions. Thus, it does not specify the reasons why an elected official could be dismissed – you seem to deny it, but it is capital. Your text cites the example of the U.S. recall, but, in addition to the fact that this procedure almost never succeeds, it allows an elected person to be removed for reasons far more diverse than the failure to comply with his or her electoral commitments. Moreover, the procedure would be particularly inappropriate for senators, since they are elected not directly by the citizens, but by a college of great voters. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] Indeed, in order to attest to the seriousness of your reform, you should have jointly submitted a constitutional bill and an organic bill. As it stands, a blur surrounds your proposal, allowing for a particularly complex application of a text to at least benign – I say it with a lot of freedom. In short, it is an unfinished job with perhaps a display value in the election campaign – I dare not think so; I'm susurrening him; I suggest it. [[Exclaims on FI banks]] As you will understand, I am against this proposal, because the remedy it offers is worse than evil. We must be wary of simplistic solutions, sometimes coupled with some demagogy. Why is your proposal simplistic? You imply that when you are dissatisfied with an election, you can dismiss the elected candidate. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, In a representative democracy, as has been the case in France since it was a republic, representatives were elected to govern for a certain period of time, and were then judged in the next election.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u282	Why is your proposal somewhat demagogic? Note that I don't think it's purely demagogic, because I want to be nice to you. That is why I want to warn you: be careful that your own reforms do not turn against you. I say it very friendlyly, Mr Mélenchon: what would be the usefulness of voting for France insoubted if, once in power, it was prevented, by a revocative referendum, from doing what it was elected for?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u283	We keep our promises!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u284	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group]] [[Exclaims on FI banks]] So much effort to come to power, and a revocative referendum! Beware, especially since your program is a little revolutionary or disruptive: the time is doing its work, the people will not follow all your measures – or else, you would be the only power and government that has never encountered any difficulties with the people who elected it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u285	It is not with the people that we will have a problem!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u286	So much effort for such a short mandate! Do you have the taste for unnecessary effort? I don't think so. But perhaps you know – I say it delicately – that you will not have access to power: then, your proposed constitutional law aims to hinder the power of others. [["But no! » on the benches of the FI group]] In the end, you're preparing us for a permanent election society. Beware of this, because it would have consequences for the meaning that everyone gives to their vote. Repeated elections, even before mandates end, would obviously weaken the very essence of the vote of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u287	It's called citizenship.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u288	What's the point of voting if I have to go back in six months, when the candidate didn't even have time to implement his program?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u289	Read the text instead, minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u290	Macronie's scared.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u291	"Who too kisses badly," the rapporteur. I share your observation, but the solution is not to create a new pseudo-right, that of revoking elected officials; Instead, we must do everything possible to encourage our fellow citizens to use a right that is not so old, and which does not exist in all countries: that of voting, quite simply. It takes a lot of humility in this area, because the alchemy on which the proper functioning of a democracy is based is delicate; Above all, it is not frozen. Elections are essential, but they are not enough, they are no longer sufficient. Democracy must constantly evolve.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u292	That's what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u293	This is what we did during the quinquennium by voting the laws for confidence in political life, or by lowering the threshold required to file a petition with the Economic, Social and Environmental Council (EESC) to 150,000 signatories aged 16 and over: we paid this citizen tribute to the youth, who deserve it. To constantly evolve is also what we have done with the totally new democratic exercises of the great national debate and the Citizen's Convention for Climate (CCC); We are now continuing with the general states of justice. Giving our citizens more directly the floor, without undermining the prerogatives of their representatives, is what we wanted to do with the 2019 constitutional review project, which included particularly innovative measures to revive our democratic life. Unfortunately, the Senate has not seen this reform with a good eye. I am thinking in particular of the creation of the universal national service, which is conducive to strengthening the involvement of young people in the life of the city; I am still thinking of the creation of a title dedicated to citizen participation in the Constitution, which should broaden the scope of the referendum provided for in Article 11 and lower its trigger threshold. [[Ms. Danièle Obono exclaimed]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] The debates surrounding the presidential election will, I am convinced, address these crucial issues for our youth and for the future of our democracy. We will do everything to ensure that as many French people as possible participate in this great event. That is why, as of January, we will be carrying out two communications campaigns aimed, on the one hand, at encouraging our compatriots to register on the electoral lists and, on the other hand, at convincing them to travel during the April presidential election. This is the essential virtue of the regular elections: to address the major challenges and to resolve them democratically. The Government is not prepared to challenge this principle as simple as it is effective. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u294	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-01-13-O1121.u295	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Further to the discussion of the proposed constitutional law to introduce a right of dismissal of elected officials; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the nationalisation of motorway concessionary companies; Discussion of the bill to ban glyphosate; Discussion of the proposal for a law on the legalization of the production, sale and consumption of cannabis under State control; Discussion of the bill to rehabilitate the soldiers "stripped for example" during the First World War; Discussion of the proposal for a law to restore the rule of law by repealing the emergency regimes created during the health crisis; Discussion of the motion for a resolution calling on the Government to withdraw France from NATO. The meeting is adjourned.
