ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u1	The next item is the re-reading of the draft law to combat school harassment and cyber-harassment (No 4976, 4997).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u2	The Secretary of State for Disabled Persons has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u3	First of all, I would like to apologize for the absence of Jean-Michel Blanquer, who is travelling with the President of the Republic. The well-being of children, adolescents and students, regardless of their particular educational needs, is essential not only for their development but also for their success. That is why, since 2017, we have done a great deal to improve this feeling of well-being. By raising "respect for others" to the status of fundamental knowledge, by fighting all forms of discrimination, including those related to disability, by creating a real public service of inclusive school, by offering excellent boarding schools or free breakfasts, we wanted to offer our students optimal conditions of learning and success. We will never get used to the fact that the lives of children and adolescents are broken, sometimes irremediably, by the scourge of everyday school harassment. Of course, as Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, this debate is of particular interest to me. Disability-related discrimination is the first ground for referral to the Defender of Rights. Children with disorders, disabilities, and particularities are the primary targets of school harassment, as you know. We will constantly fight harassment at school, wherever it is. While actions since 2017 have helped contain physical harassment, the rapid and exponential progression of online harassment must now alert us and lead us to redouble our efforts. That is why we have taken strong new steps, aware, however, that these will obviously not be enough to eradicate a phenomenon that goes far beyond the school environment and requires the mobilization of society as a whole. In 2017, to combat harassment at school, we launched a proactive and ambitious plan structured around three main areas: prevention, intervention and training. We have written in the law "that no student shall be subjected, on the part of other students, to acts of harassment" – law for a school of trust. We banned the use of mobile phones in college and strengthened media and information education with the Centre for Media and Information Education (CLEMI). We have worked with the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA) and social media platforms to improve the prevention of cyberharassment. In addition, we have launched five prevention campaigns focused on revenge porn, the role of witnesses, group dynamics, first degree and cyberharassment. We have also created several categories within the "No Harassment" award, including the Cyber Harassment Award, as of 2017, and the special "Elementary School" award, for the past two years. No student should be left alone in the face of these actions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u4	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u5	This is why the ministry is funding a listening number, 3020, and a number dedicated to the fight against cyber-harassment, 3018, in partnership with the e-Enfance association. The 3020 will benefit from the services of the Acceo platform, a well-known platform used by the ministry, which facilitates telephone accessibility for people who are deaf or hard of hearing. We will also publish guides for staff, students and their families. The fight against harassment is everyone's business and, at the initiative of France, a global day to combat harassment was established on the first Thursday in November. In the fall of 2021, a new course was reached with the generalization of the programme to combat harassment at school (PHARE) and the introduction of the "regalian square" in the rectorates. The mobilization of the educational community around this programme should have a significant impact on the school climate, the well-being of students and, more broadly, on the performance of our education system. MP Erwan Balanant's bill is in line with the action we have taken so far. It brings a new stone to the building, in particular by broadening the legal basis of school harassment and creating a specific offence of school harassment. I know everyone's commitment and work here. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LT groups and on the benches of the commissions]] We can reduce school harassment, which is not a fatality. Some countries, some institutions, some teachers are able to do so every day. Combating this phenomenon requires the mobilization of each member of the educational community and, beyond that, of the whole society.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u6	Mr Erwan Balanant, rapporteur of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u7	We are meeting this morning for the re-reading of the bill to combat school harassment. This text had come back to us from the Senate in a language significantly different from the one we adopted on December 1st. On two points which seem fundamental to me, we have, in committee, re-established the text from the first reading. In section 1, first of all, the Senate wished to restrict the scope of the right to education without harassment to peer relations only. However, the purpose of the article of the Education Code is not to punish behaviour, it is to confer a right on all pupils and students in that country: that of not being harassed during their training. Therefore, the wording adopted by the National Assembly at first reading does not cover any particular category of authors; It cannot therefore be regarded as a manifestation of distrust towards anyone and, above all, not teachers, who, in the vast majority of cases, exercise their profession with passion and benevolence. That is why the committee, meeting last Monday, wanted to re-establish the text from our House. In addition, in section 4, the Senate substituted the offence of school harassment that we had created an aggravating circumstance for the offence of moral harassment, while also restricting the qualification to peer relations. These changes have several disadvantages in terms of the objectives pursued and the consistency of our criminal law. First of all, the intelligibility and clarity of the law are not improved, so much so. In criminal law, however, that they are optimal is a constitutional imperative and a guarantee of effectiveness, a fortiori when it comes to addressing minors. How can you defend your rights when you don't understand them? How do I perceive the prohibition when it is not readable? No one is supposed to ignore the law, of course, but the system adopted by the Senate makes this presupposition impossible to fill for children of 10 or 12 years of age. Clearly, an aggravating circumstance, in addition to an offence already very complex in its drafting, cannot allow the criminal law to fulfil its expressive function. It seems to me that the autonomous offence of school harassment, as we defined it at first reading, is clearer, more pedagogical, more expressive in short, than an aggravating circumstance of the so-called general offence of moral harassment, the scope of which far exceeds the school and university environment. I believe that we are all convinced that educational action is the safest way to combat school harassment. That is why the Penal Code, which is the collection of the fundamental prohibitions of a society, is one of the indispensable elements of the message that we must convey. Moreover, the application of this aggravating circumstance to students alone reinforces the distortions of repression that I have highlighted in my various reports on the subject. Indeed, the same acts will be less punishable if they are committed by an adult of the institution, thus having a priori authority over the victim, than by a pupil. Such a difference in the quantum of applicable penalties would hardly seem acceptable to me. Moreover, something that may seem anecdotal but is important, the aggravating circumstance will not make it possible to establish precise statistics on school harassment: we need them to quantify this phenomenon properly. It should be noted that today, when you file a complaint for this reason in a police station or in a gendarmerie, no specific category is foreseen, which makes the data unreliable. We have also reinstated Article 3 on staff training, Article 3b on a new mission for the network of academic works, Article 6 on awareness training and Article 7 on the responsibilities of platforms. Several contributions from the Senate, however, seemed welcome and were retained in the text adopted by the commission. This is particularly the case with article 3 bis D, on the role of medical visits in identifying children who are victims of school harassment, or with article 2 bis, on French institutions abroad. We have also maintained the request for a report under Article 3a E on the treatment of consultation and care costs incurred by victims of school harassment, made here at first reading by many colleagues. I was not in favour of this addition, since it was a question of asking once again for a report, but I must respect on this point the senatorial will shared by several colleagues on our benches. I would also like to commend the work of Mrs Victory and the majority on Article 3c on education assistants (EDA), introduced by the Senate on the basis of the text adopted by the National Assembly on 20 January. These individuals will now have access to an indefinite contract allowing them to continue their missions beyond the current six-year maximum period. During my work on school harassment, I was able to measure how important these professionals were in the fight against this scourge. Because of their good knowledge of the students, their experience in the school environment and their great versatility, the education assistants are particularly able to detect situations of harassment at an early stage. I regret, however, that the provisions of Mrs Victory's text on accompanying students with disabilities (AESH) have not been incorporated into this bill during the parliamentary shuttle. Professionals essential to the achievement of the inclusive school that we call for, the AESHs are well placed to identify the harassment situations faced by many students with disabilities. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the text before you is based on long-term collective work, which has achieved a satisfactory balance between the three pillars of prevention, support and protection. Prevention is the basis for combating school harassment. Without prevention, we will not succeed in curbing this phenomenon. Without prevention, we will not succeed in creating a school of benevolence and trust. This is all at stake in sections 1 and 3 of this bill. This struggle also involves accompaniment. We will give new rights to students, first and foremost the right to education without harassment in a school of trust and benevolence. That means accompanying them. This is the meaning of Article 3 which gives new means to various categories of professionals, in particular to deal as quickly as possible with cases of school harassment. In order to establish the last pillar of this bill, protection, we are proceeding in the same way as in the 2000s when legislation was built to combat moral harassment at work. We create a right in the education code and we place a prohibition in the penal code. These three pillars of prevention, support and protection will not allow us to solve all the problems – we are well aware that strong public policies are needed – but with this text we are filling legal gaps, which was indispensable. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem, LaREM and LT groups and on the benches of the commissions]] We are coming to the conclusion of a long-term process, which could be described as a copy of what collective parliamentary work allows, by combining a report to the Government, a bill and a rich parliamentary debate. There was a broad consensus in favour of these provisions at first reading. I wish it would go the same way today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u8	In the general debate, Mrs Béatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u9	Whether it is through the experience of the school environment, through the feedback or as part of the review of this bill, I believe that every one of us today understands that school harassment is a complex phenomenon, affecting students in all schools, all social classes, all ages. It was therefore urgent for national representation to address this issue in a serious and applied manner in order to have discussions that would enrich the ideas proposed. I would like to thank you, Mr rapporteur, for giving us the opportunity to advance the protection of our children. Today, many parents feel destitute in the face of this growing phenomenon, which sometimes remains taboo while many children suffer. Let us never trivialize their evils and their words! The CMP (Joint Joint Committee) has highlighted differences of opinion which clearly show that the subject of school harassment is not yet well understood by all. So, like the members of the IDU and independent group, I do not agree with all the amendments made to the text by the Senate, starting with the definition of school harassment that would exclude teachers and mentors – being made clear that this is obviously not a defiance of teachers, whose constant work I welcome here. I would also like to take advantage of a comment from your report on a problem that we have already raised in committee: I agree with you that it would be inconsistent for an adult practising in the institution to be less punished than a student for similar acts of harassment. But in the same way, acts of harassment or cyber-harassment committed by a group of young people, some of whom are not in the same institution as the victim, should not lead to a different punishment, yet that is what is likely to happen. The phenomenon of harassment finally takes many forms and that is what makes it difficult to understand in the context of legal action which must be well calibrated. However, there are many tools at our disposal, the first of which must be prevention. I will regret once again the lack of nurses, doctors and school psychologists who would be able to listen to and accompany the children in need. I am pleased, however, that the Senate added the CDI of the education assistants that we mentioned only a few weeks ago. This is still a very long time, but I believe this is a first step forward, opening up opportunities for those who wish to become involved, particularly in rural schools where students are not legion. The people who surround our children every day must be able to fulfil this role of listening, and on this point Article 3 rightly refers to training, which is very important. But it is especially necessary to break a taboo in national education: yes, there is harassment in institutions and even in the vast majority of classes! It is therefore necessary to encourage the institutions to be even more vigilant and to ask the directors to identify every fact reported to him, so that he can adapt his institution's strategy to combat it. There is also a need, and above all, for the institutions themselves to be accompanied. Finally, since I am referring to the tools that can be put at the disposal of the fight against school harassment, I would quickly like to go back to the only change that I will defend this morning, namely the possibility for a harassed student to change his school without taking into account the problems of the school card. I know your position, Mr rapporteur – shared by some of our colleagues – that these changes are already possible. While examples can always be found in this regard, there is no written provision in our Education Code or in regulations and decrees that indicates that in the event of harassment, a student may change his or her school by derogating from the school card. On the other hand, we have included in the law confirming respect for the principles of the Republic the possibility for a harassed child to pursue urgently the continuation of his curriculum in the context of schooling at home, by way of derogation from the principle of authorization – of a somewhat long implementation – introduced in this law, which I also welcome. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] In any case, the IDU and independent group welcomed the discussion of the text, hoping that the progress it contained would help as many children as possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u10	Mr Michel Castellani has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u11	We all know the centrality of the school in the construction of individuals. Unfortunately, the experience of violence is one of them and the consequences of this violence do not always stop at school: they continue beyond school and persist. We must therefore, from an early age, identify, combat and defuse it. As I said at first reading, we finally have the words to describe what we have long sought to denounce without being able to do so: school harassment. So far we have tended to underestimate it, to see it as nothing but quarrels without consequences between students. Harassment is not a small violence without consequences. It spoils the lives of our children, prevents their happy schooling at an age when carelessness should seem eternal. Sometimes he even kills. It must be said that this bill alone will not address school harassment, but it will help to make it visible, to better understand it, and I hope it will reverse it. I regret that an agreement could not be reached with the Senate. However, the differences between the texts of each of the two assemblies did not seem insurmountable. On a number of points, the Senate had even been able to enrich it: I am thinking, for example, of the role of the medical examination in detecting harassment. I am also thinking of the possibility of CDI open to education assistants, a provision that reflects the one that we adopted in the context of Michèle Victory's bill. This progress will, I hope, be a first step towards greater stability for these essential and all too often forgotten personnel. Definitely, they are valuable for the day-to-day accompaniment of our students, and the fight against school harassment must obviously be based on them. Today, however, they are not exercising under satisfactory conditions. A regret, however, is that the second provision of Michèle Victory's text has not been incorporated. I am referring to the CDIsation of accompanying students with disabilities. Unfortunately, these students are often the targets of harassment. Improving their inclusion necessarily involves ensuring a benevolent environment. On the other hand, we had to go back to the Senate's abolition of the awareness-raising course. The measures must first and foremost be educational, and that is the meaning of this provision. Educational measures, yes, but sometimes we have to go beyond them. That is what you are proposing, Mr rapporteur, with the creation of an autonomous offence of school harassment. As we said at first reading, our group has no objection in principle to the creation of this specific crime. In our view, the real issue lies in the precise definition of school harassment, and that adopted by our assembly seems to us to be more appropriate. It has the merit of also targeting students and adults, who may be affected as victims as well as as as executioners. But it must be clear: if defining a specific offence of school harassment can have a deterrent effect, that will not be enough. I believe, above all, in the role of actors in schools, in their duty to protect pupils. Beyond the legal dispute, the Liberties and Territories Group recalls the need to have a scale of proportionate penalties. Article 4 does not fully address this. With regard to cyber-harassment, it seems to us that the Senate has been right to insist and we regret that the commission has made the choice not to maintain some of its contributions, including those aimed at further forcing platforms. Beyond school, school harassment is now being extended on the Internet through social networks, which are an unprecedented resonant for acts of intimidation and violence. However, this text contains only one article on this subject, even though it seems to us to be a major focus on which to act. As at first reading, we will vote for this text. However, I would like to stress one point: let us really empower ourselves, failing which the obligation of protection imposed on establishments will remain a pious wish. Of course, the educational community and school medicine will need to be better trained and made aware of the prevention of harassment: it is a prerequisite and certainly the key to an effective fight. [[Mr Maxime Minot applauds]] This means investing, from now on, in order to build up more resources. And that's exactly what's been missing in recent years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u12	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u13	We now come together again to review a bill to combat school harassment. They were called Marion, Chanel or Dinah: the names of these young people, tragically harassed, were mentioned several times on these benches. But as too often here, the names, the situations to which we refer, and the figures, yet eloquent, lose their flesh. I have the feeling that we are legislating not to give ourselves the means to stop school harassment, but to give ourselves a good conscience, satisfying ourselves with communication operations when the dramas that it causes burst into the media field. These are many tragedies and, from daily bullying to physical abuse, from racketism to the dissemination of images on networks, harassment, which is protective in its expressions, is a real scourge. If the phenomenon is difficult to understand, it is important to note that it is massive: according to the Directorate of Public Policy Evaluation (DEPP), it is almost 700000 of our students who are subjected to harassment in school every year; According to UNICEF, 22 per cent of students are affected by this phenomenon. Data are lacking and surveys should be conducted annually; It should even be made an indicator of its first performance objective within the 230 Life programme of the student in the school education budget – I regret that Mr Blanquer is not present. Unfortunately, however, three times, this proposal referred to in the Senate report is not repeated, nor is almost all of the amendments he made to the text, making it change positively. In this way, the Senate had restricted the very qualification of harassment to peers, excluding adults and personnel in charge of the scheme: the harassment of an adult on a child came to nothing but school harassment. In addition to this wisdom measure, our honourable senators have also removed the new offence of harassment, which was a real security and demagogic overbidding. Safety first, because by combining criminal sanctions with educational sanctions, prevention, awareness-raising and identification of acts of harassment are neglected. In fact, as Senator Colette Mélot's excellent report pointed out, our legal arsenal is sufficient, but it still needs to be known and applied, which requires human and financial resources. Demagogic then, because despite the harsh penalties that one would like to impose, whose deterrent effect remains to be proved, the harassers are mostly young minors who escape the ordinary adult justice system. Having said that, I do not deny that it is necessary to crack down on the harassers. We are not naive and we know that our children need stable benchmarks and various sanctions, as sociologist Benjamin Moignard points out. But even the HUGO association! – one of the few to support this new crime – confirms that it is not a question of "shooting with red balls on harassers, who often have a experience of mal-being or domestic violence".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u14	That's not true! All associations are for the exception of one! Stop lying!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u15	Punishment for punishment is therefore not a solution and, before sanctioning, it is necessary to identify the causes of upstream harassment in order to be the most able to prevent these tragedies. As you said again, rapporteur, we will not be able to combat harassment without prevention. On this very subject, allow me to briefly mention here the great gap in this text, which is limited to incantatory formulas.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u16	I love your certainty about this!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u17	I am referring to the flagrant lack of human and financial resources for national education to carry out its tasks, in particular to prevent harassment. How do you expect that with a doctor for 12,000 students, a nurse for 1,500 students and a Senior Education Advisor (CPE) for 700 students, our staff will be sufficient to listen to our children? It is good to want to train them, as this text proposes, but they should already be recruited. How do you want to be taken seriously, Madam Secretary of State, when on the occasion of the last finance bill of the legislature you have refused mordicus to recruit more EDAs? They could, however, be at the forefront of the detection of harassment. Moreover, by opening up a right to the CDIsation des AEDs on 20 January, you implicitly recognised the role and social and educational usefulness of this profession. What, finally, when you go so far as to transform the obligation of continuing training relating to the prevention, detection and management of school and university harassment into a simple proposal, into a possibility? You are doing well in reality, because you already know that it will never be effective, as the opportunities for continuing education in the national education system have become indigent. Of course, the text voted by the Senate was not without flaws, in our view at least: one could wonder about the relevance of reinvigorating the debate on family education through this legislative vehicle or about the exemptions to the school card provided for in the event of harassment. In any event, the position of the Group of the European People's Party will be strictly the same as that of the Group of the European People's Party at first reading: unless the debates are yet to change the text, we will abstain.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u18	That's brave! Go to the end, vote against!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u19	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u20	Every year in France, 700000 children are subjected to school harassment – even if you are right to say, rapporteur, that this number is certainly higher in reality. It is therefore a subject that affects us all, through our loved ones and our families. There is an urgent need to propose effective measures to combat this scourge and to better prevent it. It is about being a better society, a society that collectively fights against harassment, especially school-based harassment. I take this rostrum to express my solidarity with the families who have been affected and those who are in mourning, whose children have been the targets of school harassment – which often duplicates cyber-harassment. This text – at least the subject it addresses – is therefore welcome; We have already said that at first reading. Article 1, which enshrines a right to protection against school harassment in the Education Code, is in our view in the right direction. The fact that children must be protected, that they have the right to protection within the school, can be a real step forward: the school must be a safe place for students. But this will remain a pious wish if the necessary resources, targeted, are not implemented. Article 3, which provides for the care of children harassed by school medicine, is obviously a good signal, I repeat. But you know, ladies and gentlemen, what is the state of school medicine today: it suffers from a considerable lack of funding...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u21	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u22	... as well as a lack of attractiveness to staff. There is only one school doctor for 12,500 students and school nurses, the only representatives of school medicine in schools, are also understaffed. Repeated attacks on this profession, including the département of school medicine provided for by the law 3DS – differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and simplification – weaken the identification and support of children who are victims or responsible for harassment. Indeed, I think you will agree, ladies and gentlemen, that both the victims and the perpetrators of harassment are children; Educational measures and special support are therefore needed. The health crisis has further highlighted the lack of resources, which leads professionals to abandon such essential tasks as those that participate in inclusive schools or allow for the follow-up of the most vulnerable children. The conditions are certainly no longer in place for them to carry out their tasks. The same applies to school psychologists, who are key actors in the fight against school harassment. The competitive examination for the recruitment of psychologists from national education offers few places. France is understaffed. According to the Moro-Brison report, published in 2016, there was a psychologist in France for 1,600 pupils while the European average was one psychologist for 800 pupils. The attractiveness of the profession needs to be strengthened, notably through an increase in salaries and careers and an increase in the number of job openings. This must be accompanied by a clear financial commitment from ministers. I would also like to express my serious doubts as to whether it is appropriate to enshrine an offence of school harassment within the Code of Criminal Procedure. This doubt is shared not only by senators, but also by some of the associations to combat school harassment. Today, articles L. 222-33-2 et seq. can be applied to school harassment: they provide an indispensable basis for combating this phenomenon. I found – and we could have discussed it more broadly – that the senator's proposal to abolish the penalty to replace it with an aggravating circumstance was interesting. She seemed to me to be going in the right direction. According to many associations, prevention with means is more effective than criminal punishment. Above all, we know how much educational measures are lacking in court decisions concerning children. Like our colleague Sabine Rubin, we consider that the creation of this new crime in reality conceals all that we would have to do in terms of prevention, education, accompaniment – but also punishment, to the extent of children and their development. [[Ms. Michèle Victory applauds]] You may find that it is not courageous to abstain, Mr rapporteur, but, as I have indicated, if it seems to the Group of the Democratic and Republican Left that certain measures are in the right direction, it considers that the new crime created is not as childish as it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u23	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u24	A few weeks ago, I came to say the names of children and teenagers who ended their lives, putting faces on this dreadful ratio: one in ten students – surely much more, even – is harassed during their schooling. I had come to talk to you about Hugo, Marion, Dinah, Thybault, Marie and many more – and I will talk about them again. Behind these names are singular stories but always a childhood, education, self-esteem, a life – lives – broken by school harassment. Above all, it hides a reality that has been taboo for too long. In this House, we had raised ourselves to the level of children, harassed and harassed, to understand the complex springs of this scourge and to find appropriate and fast-acting answers. At the end of the debate, we welcomed the progress made by the bill defended by our colleague Erwan Balanant – whom I thank – in preventing and improving the judicial treatment of incidents of school harassment. At that time, we were far from imagining that it would be largely questioned by senators, who would turn an ambitious and hopeful text into a compilation of half-measures. Our duty as legislators, but also as parents, is to continue to try to better protect children. This may require an evolution of the law, so that society as a whole can act firmly against these facts. To those who believe that this text only strengthens the penal arsenal of the fight against school harassment, I reply that it calls above all to strengthen the work of accompaniment of children harassed and of raising the awareness of harassers and witnesses, in all schools in France. I reply that this text intends to include, within the establishment project, renewed attention to the prevention and detection of acts of harassment. Yes, school harassment is now at the heart of the concerns of students, their parents, teachers, voluntary actors and the public authorities, and it is fortunately possible to deal with this subject outside the courts. Of course, we will continue to encourage this civic momentum of responsibility that says no to school harassment. I also thank, and above all, all the associations that work daily with our children to combat this phenomenon. But this progress must not lead us to ignore dramatic situations, because every act of humiliation, moral or physical violence, is one of too many. I am therefore speaking to those who wish the abolition of the autonomous offence of school harassment: would we have advanced if school harassment still remained an ill-defined fact, misunderstood, and that its reprehensibility was not specifically and clearly affirmed? What can be said to families when, after a collective admission of failure, the exhausted child is finally advised to change institutions in order to escape from his harassers who, they, are not put before their responsibility and remain unpunished? What do we say to parents who are experiencing a change in their child's establishment as a second setback?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u25	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u26	It is a double penalty for children who are subjected to school harassment. In order for them to rebuild and testify after isolation, depression, and de-schooling, we must give them confidence in society. We must show them that we fully recognize their suffering and that there will no longer be any tolerance for the harassment they have suffered. To fulfil this commitment, there must be an autonomous offence of school harassment: I remain firmly convinced of it. The tools introduced by this bill will, together with the public policies put in place over the last five years and thanks to the essential action of the actors on the ground, help to stem this scourge. We also want to harmonise the sanctions that are not allowed under the current legislation, in which school harassment is punished as a matter of moral harassment. The creation of the offence of school harassment will also, where necessary, order the confiscation of telephones, tablets or computers that have been used to commit the offence. It is therefore also on the cyber-harassment and unregulated access of our children to social networks, often constituting school harassment, that we will act. Social networks are a jungle and their dangers are still too unknown. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a fundamental point: the autonomous offence of harassment at school, supplemented by the course of responsibility for school life that we are setting up, will also have an example, pedagogical and educational value. I repeat: we are not in criminal obsession. We simply want to establish a clear legal framework, so that we can inculcate into our children what is prohibited: to become a society, we need rights, duties, freedoms and prohibitions. To avoid extreme situations, to encourage witnesses to leave their silence, so that our children know that harassment is a serious fact that has no place in our society, we are putting this ban on us today. We are bringing a new stone to the building of the fight against school harassment. Today, we will not backtrack. The group La République en marche will vote for this text in order to commit itself to our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u27	Mr Maxime Minot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u28	We lack exact figures, but many children are said to be victims of school harassment each year: they are estimated at between 800,000 and 1 million, or 10 per cent of students in France. These figures give the turn, they revolt and they disgust when one knows the tragedies to which harassment can lead. Because no, harassment is not a children's chamary, far from it. We must break the law of silence; We must allow children to have the floor, to scream and to ask for help. Allow me to have a thought for all children and their families whose destinies have sometimes been broken to the irreparable, and some of whom will bring to life the stigma of humiliation and physical or psychological violence. I would also like to commend the commitment of all the associations that provide invaluable support to them. No, these facts aren't annoyed. It is up to us, as citizens, to hear the distress of the victims and the parents and, as legislators, to give them the certainty that all legal responses have been provided to combat this scourge effectively. The group The Republicans resolutely engaged in this fight about ten years ago, when Luc Chatel, then Minister of National Education, Youth and Associative Life, took up the first question: seeking to put in place an institutional response to put an end to school harassment, he made it possible to raise awareness of the institutions. As a result, all the ministers of national education have brought their stone to the wall that must be built in the face of school harassment. But many points are perfectable, such as teacher training.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u29	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u30	Only 20% reported having received training against school harassment. Only one teacher in three feels sufficiently armed to identify cases of harassment and to accompany victims and harassers. While school harassment affects all settings and schools, the fight against school harassment is currently facing structural difficulties, particularly with regard to the care of victims. In 2017, the Academy of Medicine denounced in a report the numerous gaps and territorial disparities in school medicine – and my colleague Elsa Faucillon recalled.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u31	Too bad.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u32	This is an important point that the Government must correct without delay. Institutions must have the means to achieve the results we expect from them. Of course, the successive governments of this quinquennium have taken action by launching a plan to combat school violence, by banning mobile phones in the college and, in particular, by taking the initiative of the PHARE programme. But, like the call numbers – the utility of which is real – these devices sometimes remain too little known. It is essential to strengthen and make the widest possible communication about them. The Senate also provided important work on school harassment, through a fact-finding mission that resulted in the proposal of 35 concrete and operational measures. I am also thinking of the report of the Institut Montaigne, "Internet: the young peril? to whom Raphaël Muller, rector of the Amiens Academy, whom I greeted and with whom I spoke about this subject. Before every text before us, as legislators, we must ask ourselves a single question: does it solve the problem raised? Of this, I believe, despite the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. Beyond the projector shots, the planned measures seem to be able to make a difference in the fight we conduct collectively, even if the scope of some of them remains symbolic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u33	He's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u34	That is why, unsurprisingly, the Senate wanted to make its contribution. The quality of its changes is not to be demonstrated: I am thinking, among other things, of the extension of the definition of school harassment to the academic community and of cyber-harassment; the necessary reinforcement of the training I have just mentioned; to the consideration of witnesses. The main focus of the disagreement between the chambers was on article 4, which was rewritten by the senators, who considered that the creation of a specific offence of school harassment might give precedence to the symbol at the expense of the effectiveness of the law. [[Applause on the benches of the LR and Dem groups, as well as on the benches of the commissions]] That is an argument that must be agreed. Nevertheless – and although I imagine the disappointment of my colleague from the Oise, rapporteur of the text at the Palais du Luxembourg – the members of the Republican Group, assuming their responsibilities and judging that this disagreement is more of a form than a substance, will again vote in favour of the bill. We will do it for the victims, who have no voice in it and rely on us; we will do so because we are all concerned, regardless of our constituency and personal background; "It's not because we're small that we have small problems," recalled the last campaign against harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u35	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u36	Dear Erwan Balanant, who have been supporting this cause for so long, in the world, two out of three young people say they fear violence in or around school. "We call for protection and freedom from all forms and levels of violence in schools. To this end, we call for schools to be governed by clear rules, regulations and action plans enabling reforms and remedies to be applied in order to provide a safe learning environment for all students. It is this simple request, made by some 100 young people as part of a UNICEF manifesto, that we wish to respond to the bill. It is not about physical violence, intolerable, of course, but easier to identify: it deals with violence that is more insidious, pernicious, the violence that whispers in the back of the victims, the violence that often comes from a difference, a handicap, a sexting – the sending of texts of a sexual nature – unfortunate, or even simply in the fact that a person is considered too reserved, too studious, too "strong in theme"; that which is repeated every day, over and over again, and whose digital amplification leaves no respite to the victim, continued into his room; that which, in school or college classes, starting from a small circle, is expanding very quickly, so that a student sometimes finds himself ostracized by the whole school before no teacher has heard of it or can assess its extent – as well as many parents discover years later, if ever, what their child has suffered, which he keeps from indelible sequels, which has often led him to tragic acts. We must end this law of silence, with the taboo and victimization that surround the report of harassment: that is why we create an offence of school harassment. It is not a question of putting children in prison, but of proclaiming that the school, the college, are shrines, where one learns life, free and serene.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u38	The aim is to enable the teaching community to put a name on this scourge, to discuss it, to organize the struggle with and for the children, with the parents, with the associations, if necessary to erect the fear of the risks involved, in order to make the families aware of the grave consequences that certain acts committed by their child and which too many of them ignore or even consider anodizing. For all these reasons, considering school harassment as a mere aggravation of the offence of moral harassment, as the Senate wished, makes no sense: a child may not be in prison for two years for having harassed another, when the same facts would put an adult at risk only one year in prison. On the other hand, imposing a strict, firm ban, an impassable red line, is more than necessary.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u39	It's essential!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u40	The failure of the Joint Joint Committee also has a second cause: the Senate wanted to exclude from the scheme adults intervening in the school. Without stigmatizing anyone, it is our duty to recognize that harassment can be initiated, prolonged or simply ignored by adults working in schools – teachers, supervisors, administrative or medical staff, for example – in order to ensure that children, by a broad definition, are protected from this scourge. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group, as well as on some benches of the LR group. – The rapporteur also applauds]] As you will understand, our ambition in this area is great. The Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats Group hopes that the discussions that will follow will enable us to move forward this text which is absolutely essential for the protection of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u41	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u42	The review of this text has shown that the fight against school harassment transcends political divisions: to protect our children, we are all mobilized. The problem is certainly not new, and successive governments have already taken steps, for example the creation in 2012, at the beginning of François Hollande's quinquennium, of a national free telephone hotline, or the system of high school ambassadors against harassment. However, it must be noted that the increase in the phenomenon by social networks has led to the harassment of new forms that make the suffering of victims, families, interminable. Recent, unbearable tragedies continue to arouse emotion: we have an emotional thought for these wounded homes. However, the virality of social networks should not mask the fact that harassment speaks a lot of the school climate as a whole. Affirming the right of children to be protected, as your text does, is essential. This is why the fight against harassment requires the restoration of a sometimes degraded school climate: it is necessary to give consideration to teachers, EDAs and HESAs, to improve the conditions under which pupils grow up, to design from the primary school awareness actions that are more in tune with the college, to give the educational community the means to match its investment. Since the school is the place of the collective, the arrangements must take into account the group effect, such as the Sentinel and Reference Scheme, which allowed working with all the stakeholders, which inspired the PHARE programme. This is primarily the responsibility of prevention and training. So, Mr.Rapporteur, although the Senate's proposals have moved away from your very committed work, many of them were in our view. The fact that school harassment becomes an aggravating circumstance of moral harassment, rather than an autonomous offence, was more adapted to the perspective of our criminal law: a mechanism of punishment proportionate and adapted to each situation. As we said at first reading: school harassment is already, fortunately, punishable by law, adding to the penal code may prove counterproductive. On this point, you have not convinced us, even though we have taken note of your major argument: the fact that the introduction of this new offence would make it possible to have more precise figures and thus to better understand the scale of the phenomenon. Harassment is rarely prosecuted, as the material characterization of the offence is difficult to establish. It is this path that we must follow, by providing justice with the necessary means and by promoting the release of the victims' words. On the proposal of the Socialist and Related Group, the risk awareness courses have rightly been renamed: they will be one of the key components of the scheme, provided, again, that the necessary funds are allocated. We are of course in favour of extending this fight to non-contractual establishments; the enlargement of the categories of trained personnel, whose importance we had stressed; the role to be played by digital platforms. The factors of harassment are complex: we will only be able to make progress by playing on all its springs. In addition, the Senate introduced into the bill, with respect to the AEDs, a provision in a recent text of which I was a rapporteur – thank you for pointing it out, Mr. Balanant. [[Applause on a few benches of the LR group. – Mrs Sabine Rubin also applauds]] On the other hand, I deeply regret that the AESHs have not been included in the scheme. Their role is all the more important since only an even greater mobilization of the institution can give students with disabilities, often harassed, hope for schooling free of violence of all kinds. Since the letter I have recently sent to the Minister responsible for national education has remained unanswered and unanswered, I ask you once again, Madam Secretary of State, for you alone can decide this at this stage: give the AESH the possibility of CDIsation after three years of exercise. It is also provided for in my bill to combat the precariousness of the AESH and the AEDs, as a result of its consideration by the Assembly. Such progress would certainly not be commensurate with the commitment of those concerned to the students, but for them – for they are mainly women – every move counts: we owe this one, Madam Secretary of State, if only to corroborate your speeches. In the meantime, I am pleased that the situation of the EDAs has been examined. They participate daily in the establishment of a safe school climate for the development of pupils; They welcome, listen, take care of the latter. These referent adults, who defuse conflicts that break out of the classroom hours themselves, are nevertheless invisible to national education. The increase in their tasks, further accelerated by the health crisis, degrades their working conditions; Worse, they have to give up after six years a job that, anyway, they might not be able to return from one year to the next. The situation is no longer tenable. We will have little opportunity to come back to this in the course of our discussions, since the amendments I had tabled in order to further secure the contracts of the EDAs were declared inadmissible, but I reiterate my appeal: we need them, the students need them. They are not mere pawns but essential actors in our schools: let us finally give them the recognition they deserve. Madam Secretary of State, when the text has been promulgated, do you undertake that the decree allowing the CDIsation of the AEDs after six years of exercise be published before the end of the legislature? The rest of the bill remains somewhat inadequate. We regret again and again the lack of funds for educational personnel, as well as for school health personnel, whose shortages we continue to denounce. How can we imagine involving school nurses, doctors and psychologists in the fight against harassment when we all know that, for lack of resources, they are unable to fulfil their daily tasks? The legislator cannot do everything; However, we agree with the intention of this text and, wishing it to provide true answers to the educational community, despite our reservations, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u43	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u44	We are once again meeting to review, on a new reading, the bill to combat school harassment. The profound changes introduced by the Senate have made the failure of the Joint Joint Committee inevitable, which we sincerely regret. Nevertheless, the removal of the autonomous offence and the exclusion of adults from the definition of school harassment were red lines that our majority could not resolve. That is why we have endorsed their re-establishment in committee. As at the first reading, the members of the Action Together Group will strongly support this bill, which we co-signed. Indeed, there are individual tragedies that are also collective and that push us to act in a spirit of responsibility: the suicide of the young Dinah, who ended her days on October 5 at the age of 14 is one of them. Physical attacks, racist, homophobic or sexist insults: the violence that once ceased at 16:30 now crosses the school grid and continues in the comfort of the anonymity of social networks. Dinah is unfortunately not an isolated case: at least nineteen students ended their days last year, under pressure from their harassing comrades. Dinah is the sad face of a scourge that would affect 6 to 10% of students, between 700000 and 1 million children! No region, no city, no establishment, no social class is spared. Too often, however, the suffering of the victims is invisibility, ignored. Isolation, shame, fear of talking to parents or teachers are all locks that must be broken in order for the law of silence to finally cease. For this is the real challenge: to free and better collect the words of the victims. For school harassment, as for all other forms of violence that gangrene society, the logic is the same: fear must change sides. However, it must be acknowledged that our country has been slow to become aware of the phenomenon and to build a real public policy to combat school violence. Since 2017, we have taken action to change the daily practice of school life in the prevention of harassment and the care of victims. Of course, I am thinking of the inclusion of the "right to education without harassment" in the law for a school of trust voted in 2019, as well as the law aimed at combating hate content on the Internet, of which our colleague Laetitia Avia was the rapporteur. But in terms of school harassment, as in many other areas, many levers for action are regulated. This is the meaning of the generalisation of the PHARE programme from the beginning of the 2021 school year. Our group also welcomes the recent announcements made by the President of the Republic this week with the launch of the 3018 application, which will allow every student to report cyber-harassment. This is a real step forward that was one of the measures advocated by Timothy Nadim, a former harassed student who has been able to raise his head and who is now campaigning for things to change – I welcome his commitment here. This bill will make it possible to go even further. It is based on the following triptych: prevention, accompaniment, protection. Harassment must be prevented, first, by devoting a right to education without violence in all public and private institutions. At the first reading of the text, the members of the Action Together group had clarified the content of the measures to be taken by institutions to insist on prevention, which must be improved. Secondly, the victims, the perpetrators of school harassment and the adults who care for them must be accompanied by increased training for them. On this point, our group welcomes the fact that the committee has retained Article 3a E, introduced by the upper chamber, on the care of psychological care not only for the victims but also for the authors. We defended this subject at first reading and we are pleased that it has found a positive response in the Senate. I mean, we have to protect. For this purpose, article 4 creates an autonomous offence of school harassment. But because beyond criminal sanctions the first response must be educational, we have supported the restoration of section 6 deleted by the Senate, which creates an awareness-raising course to empower harassing students. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Ladies and gentlemen, the school must remain a place of emancipation not only through knowledge, but also through the learning of civics and citizenship. This text contributes to this and I warmly thank its rapporteur, Erwan Balanant, for his constant commitment to the fight against school violence. I repeat: we will therefore vote in favour of this bill with conviction.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u45	Mr Guillaume Chiche has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u46	The bill to combat school harassment has an important educational purpose, as the scourge of school harassment affects a large number of children and adolescents. School harassment is a repeated, deliberate, often group assault: it is not just a conflict between two individuals: it is often the act of a group against an individual. Each year, between 800,000 and 1 million young people are victims, or more than 5% of students. In 2021, some 20 children and adolescents died as a result of harassment. Upstream of these tragedies, it is the school and social life of the children concerned that are broken with undeniable psychological consequences. This is indeed a question of the well-being of our children in school. School harassment has been taken into account for about ten years. This scourge is not new, but it is now aggravated by the use of social networks that offer new ways to harass in groups and in pseudo-anonymity. In this respect, I welcome the field work of the associations which work daily in schools to carry out prevention, as well as the work of the academic directorates which have taken up the subject with arms and bodies and are continuously developing the PHARE programme in each school environment. The provisions you are proposing, Mr rapporteur, could complement the Sentinel and Reference Programme established in 2010 and the PHARE programme I have just mentioned. However, I use the conditional because, while the main issues in your text are the prevention of the facts, the care of the victims and the creation of an offence of school harassment, it is clear that the means to achieve this are not fully deployed: 900 school doctors for 12 million students. That is the reality of the observation! The lack of resources, of doctors and of school nurses, of social workers was also mentioned by the Court of Auditors in its April 2020 report, which points out "a performance far below the mandatory screening targets, [key moments in the student's health path], due to a failing organisation". She added that "a complete reorganization of the system, together with a revision of the working methods, was essential". One third of medical posts are said to be vacant in national education; Only 18% of the planned visits to the child's 6 years of age were carried out in 2018, compared to 26% in 2013. You propose in Article 3 the care by school medicine of harassed children. That's a very good signal. But how would such support be possible without means? The Government has for a time considered transferring school medicine to the departments in the bill on differentiation, decentralization, deconcentration and various measures to simplify local public action that we have just adopted. However, this provision was not retained. In many places in my constituency, the nurse is only present two days a week. How many testimonies from victims of harassment or relatives of victims indicate that the first physical signs in cases of harassment are stomach aches? What does a student who has stomach pain and doesn't want to go to class or stay in the playground? He's going to the infirmary. But this is where the boat hurts: there is no one to welcome it, to identify the first signals and to pull the alarm bell. Teachers can be alerted by declining school results; However, only 20% reported having received training against school harassment. That is why it is necessary to provide national education staff with tools to prevent, detect and care for victims of harassment. Article 3 therefore goes in the right direction. I regret, however, that it does not provide parents with the opportunity to receive training on school harassment as well. The latter often find themselves alone and destitute in the face of their child's distress. They don't know if they can change the school during the year, offer home education until the situation calms down and they don't know who to turn to. Families must be truly accompanied and supported. Finally, in addition to the creation of a new crime for the perpetrators of harassment, an offence that merely punishes rather than prevents suffering, it seems to me that we should have debated and strengthened the legal framework against cyber-harassment. I know that you are sensitive to this, Mr rapporteur. This topic is essential for the protection of the privacy of our children, as one in five young people between the ages of 18 and 24 say they have been harassed on social networks. This bill should require the removal of anonymity from platforms that should be forced to stop harassment. However, Article 7 merely places the fight against school harassment among the objectives assigned to platforms and access providers. Although it has many shortcomings in my view, I will vote in favour of the bill. We cannot reject the additional provisions that it contains when it comes to the mental and physical health of our children.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u47	The general discussion is closed. The rapporteur, who wishes to speak, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u48	First of all, I would like to go back to the progress of the text, in order to provide some answers to some questions from the extreme left of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u49	Not extreme left! To the left, we are at the extreme of the House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u50	Geographically, you are on the far left of the Chamber. It was precisely because I did not want to use the extreme left expression that I spoke of extreme left. But that's not the point. The purpose of this bill is to protect the child throughout his or her academic and academic learning. It's as simple as that. To do so, we must put in place the legal tools that were lacking. You're right, this text won't solve everything. Nevertheless, it gives the public authorities additional levers for action that have so far been lacking. Until the law for a school of trust, the term school harassment was not included in the education code or in the penal code.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u51	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u52	Evil didn't exist. How do you want to fight against an evil that is not even named? This is at stake in section 1 of the bill, which confers a right to education in confidence, without violence and without harassment – we all agree on this point. To grant this right to a child is simply to free one's word from a threat. As long as the child does not have this right or perceives its existence, he cannot release his word. This possibility is also made possible by Article 3, which provides for the training of all referent adults in relation to the child: not only teachers, EDAs, school staff, but also law enforcement officers, school doctors, nurses and all those who, in their professional life, work with the child. This release of speech allows us to intervene as quickly as possible on cases of harassment. The sooner a situation is perceived, the more it will be possible to stop the infernal cycle. That is why it is necessary to define this prohibition. I understand your reluctance, ladies Rubin and Faucillon, as long as I shared them myself at the beginning. It did not seem useful to me to change the penal code. However, after having worked for two years on the subject, after having interviewed nearly 200 people involved in this field, after having met with the majority of associations dealing with school harassment in France and which I would like to thank for the remarkable work they are doing – there are so many that I could not of course hear them all – I find that all or almost all of them are in favour of this bill. Some associations were in favour of it, but are no longer in favour of it; It's life. But I wanted to lift that misconception: the associations and the national education staff that I have heard have, as a whole, voted in favour of the text. Let us therefore move in the direction of this triptych: prevention, accompaniment, protection for, as Guillaume Chiche said, the mental and physical health of our children and their success at school. As we know, a child who does not trust school is a child who is failing. I repeat, for our children, let us adopt this text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u53	I now call, in the text of the committee, the articles of the bill on which the two assemblies were unable to arrive at an identical text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u54	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u55	School harassment is a scourge that we must fight. The statistics which assess the extent of the problem are particularly worrying: more than one in ten young French people would suffer a form of school harassment, i.e. more than 750,000 children each year. It is the duty of the legislator to react and seize the problem. The list of young people who end their lives because of school harassment is far too long; These horrific acts must cease. School harassment is characterized by violence and regular assaults, whether verbal, physical or psychological: children are insulted, bullied, beaten or insulted. This untenable reality has no place in the school of the Republic - we all agree. We must make this clear in the Education Code: Article 1 goes on to do so by including the principle of the right to protection from harassment in the general provisions of the law of education. We must also retain the addition of the Committee on Cultural Affairs and Education, which extends the definition of school harassment to facts that do not necessarily occur in the school but are related to school life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u56	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u57	I want to pay tribute to the memory of the young Dinah, who killed herself on October 5, 2021 in Wittenheim, a few kilometres from my permanence: his gesture aroused a real shock of conscience, and he is certainly at the origin of our increased mobilization against harassment. I also have a thought for all victims of school harassment and cyber-harassment. I welcome our strong and determined response to this phenomenon. This bill is an important step forward, which will help to reduce this scourge. I welcome the creation of a school harassment offence and the introduction of new tools, such as the awareness training provided for in article 6, and the information provided to students and parents each year, provided for in article 1. However, I will express frustration: I regret that the bill does not have a broader scope, and that it deals primarily with harassment within the school, in addition to judicial harassment. There are many situations of harassment that do not occur because they take place outside school or on social networks. We need to engage all stakeholders, starting with associations and local and regional authorities mobilized against harassment. In this regard, we should be guided by the cross-cutting approach developed by Denmark and Sweden, based on a strong involvement of the communities and all stakeholders involved. We should also rely more on the police and strengthen their preventive role with young people, as police and gendarmes have very relevant initiatives in this area - the experiment conducted in Bourtzwiller, in my constituency, bears witness to this. If we can welcome the progress we are making today, be careful not to be content with it: the victims and their families would then judge us severely.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u58	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 11.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u59	It has an editorial purpose and is intended to clarify the proposed legislation. In paragraph 3, in the sentence, "No student or student shall be subjected to harassment as a result of speech or behaviour committed within the institution..." I propose to delete the words "as a result of harassment". By simplifying the drafting process, we would aim at broader harassment. We would make the law more readable and comprehensible, and it would be better accepted by the French.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u60	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u61	If we do not clearly name things, we will not move forward. On the contrary, you add confusion by deleting the word "harassment", which refers precisely to the phenomenon we are fighting. On the other hand, I do not see how the current wording is grammatically sinning. My opinion is therefore unfavorable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u62	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u63	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u64	Mr François Jolivet has the floor to support Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u65	Before I introduce this appeal amendment, I would like to welcome the work and bill of Erwan Balanant. I must associate Hugo Martinez, president of the HUGO! association, who has made a strong commitment to this project, as well as Matthieu Meriot, a resident of Indre who, after being part of the long list of harassed people, recounted his experience in a book. Finally, I greet little Dinah, a victim of harassment that ended her life in October. Madam Secretary of State, what doctrine will you draw from this text? Since the draft law penalizes harassment - which I am pleased to say - it must be made clear that it is up to all those concerned to prove that they are performing their normal duties in order to combat harassment at school, in order to avoid being convicted of failure to comply with a reporting and warning obligation. That is the subject of my amendment. You will probably answer that he is satisfied, and that this clarification will be the subject of a circular. How, however, will staff in institutions be required to act and maintain evidence of their normal diligence? Will they be trained there? When one is heard by a prosecutor, in fact, his first request is always: "How does it work in you? »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u66	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u67	Thank you for your encouragement, dear colleague. In addition to the association you mentioned, all those who fight against school harassment have been involved in the drafting of the text. As with any crime or offence, failure to perform normal due diligence may be invoked in court proceedings involving acts of school harassment. Your amendment is therefore fully satisfied. Moreover, it seems appropriate to dissociate, on the one hand, the establishment of an obligation of means on the part of the public authorities, which must be covered by the education code, and, on the other hand, the judicial repression of acts of school harassment, which is included in the penal code. Our intention is not to judicialize school harassment because, in this respect, the judicialization testifies to the failure of the system: it must be the ultimate resort to very serious facts and we must do everything we can to avoid it. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u68	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u69	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u70	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 8.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u71	It is still an editorial amendment, but it may have some consequences for the responsibility of institutions in cases of harassment. In paragraph 4, rather than stating that institutions "take appropriate measures to combat harassment", I propose to write that they "give themselves the means to combat harassment". Establishments must be subject to an obligation of means and not of result because, in this area, the risk can never be completely eradicated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u72	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u73	Your last point is contradictory to your amendment, which seems to want to impose an obligation of result - but we know that it is impossible in a subject such as harassment. I therefore ask you to withdraw your amendment. Only an obligation of resources can be imposed on educational institutions and public authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u74	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u75	Everything was said: the same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u76	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u77	My amendment is about an obligation of means, not a result, since I propose to write that institutions "give themselves the means to combat harassment".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u78	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 19.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u79	The purpose of this appeal amendment is to clarify that institutions are required to take appropriate measures to combat harassment "based on the limited means available to them". It must be remembered that the institutions lack human resources, both in school medicine and in school life and social workers – and I am going through this. In these circumstances, I do not consider that they can prevent, combat or even identify the new phenomenon of harassment. Moreover, it is not because a phenomenon is recognized that it necessarily requires the creation of a new crime. You create a crime to name a reality, but it exists regardless of the characterization of a crime! During the consideration of the 2022 finance bill, the parliamentary majority rejected all of our amendments aimed at increasing the number of school medicine and school life staff, school nurses, CPE, AED and social workers. I have defended all these amendments. For our children, vote the necessary budgets rather than create a new crime!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u80	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u81	Both aspects are not inextricably linked, on the contrary. You feel that the means are in constant regression; I would remind you that 300 CPEs will be recruited: these are additional resources. We are starting from a difficult and delicate situation, but, since the beginning of the legislature, the national education budget has increased every year, sometimes in large proportions - the financial laws testify to this. Finally, I repeat: the inclusion of a crime in the penal code certainly defines a ban, but also engages society. It is by including a precise rule in the penal code, which lists the prohibitions, that we can move forward and engage the whole of society. In doing so, we give obligations of means to all actors to deal with the phenomenon of school harassment. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u82	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u83	As the rapporteur pointed out, additional resources have been granted. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u84	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u85	[[Mr Jean-Jacques Bridey and Mrs Blandine Brocard applaud]] We are both members of the Finance Committee, Mrs Rubin. So you know that, for the first time in a long time, we have created additional posts of medical and social staff - they will be 300 this year. It may not be enough, but you cannot say that nothing has been done. We need to increase human resources, and we do so; But beyond the budgets, we still have to find the people who agree to occupy the positions! The message expressed in Article 1 is clear: we are all responsible, and we must all engage in the fight against school harassment. Regardless of human means, we have the will to act on the ground; This determination is shared by associations and the educational community, as well as by parents, who are increasingly involved in this subject. So you cannot say that we are not acting and that we are content with repressive measures.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u86	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u87	We cannot assume a responsibility if we do not have the means to deal with it. But you do not impose on yourself an obligation of means. Your 300 CPE positions are nothing at all, as the deficiency of the institutions is profound! This also applies to AEDs. As for school medicine, we've been talking about it for five years, but nothing is done: we can't find the doctors. It's hard to find the staff, you say, but still have to pay them properly! We're going in circles. The increase in the national education budget is insignificant in view of the massive needs of schools.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u88	The increase is still 1.6 billion in 2022!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u89	That's insignificant. The school is so impoverished that everyone is ill-treated, from teachers to students, to academy inspectors. Don't tell me about your obligation of means! Since you create an offence under an obligation of means, you will have to translate it into the 2023 Finance Bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u90	The world is easy with you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u91	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 9.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u92	The message to harassers who do not always measure the scope of their actions must be very clear: their actions are absolutely illegal and they can be punished, including by the justice of our country. At first reading, you told me, Mr rapporteur, that this amendment was satisfactory because the services outside the institution to which victims are directed obviously include the police and justice services, but given the scale of the phenomenon, it seems to me very useful, even if it is symbolic – it is sometimes good to include symbolic formulas in the law – to remind that, in the case of school harassment, the whole society is behind the victims, including law enforcement and justice. I will finish my speech by quoting from a mother published last November in the Occitanie regional press: "When a pack attacks a child suffering from hyperactivity, troubles of attention, the consequences can be disastrous, especially when the child is also stigmatized by a part of the teaching staff. You're fat, you dress up at the garbage store, you're sick, we don't play with you: that's what my child heard. It took a municipal policeman to intervene and defend ourselves, and we finally schooled him in the private sector to get things right. » This is a testimony that speaks volumes. The municipal police had to intervene – but it could have been the gendarmerie or the national police – to start taking the child seriously and to take action, in this case to remove him from his institution. That is why I believe it is important that law enforcement and justice be specifically mentioned in the fourth paragraph of this article.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u93	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u94	I'll give you the same unfavorable opinion, Mrs. Ménard. If we begin to specify the appropriate services, it is endless, since it depends on the particular situation: sometimes it will be justice and law enforcement, but it may be the departmental services for children. If we want to draw up an exhaustive list, we will inevitably forget about it. Let us therefore keep this writing broader and more secure.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u95	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u96	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u97	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u98	I wanted to stress the relevance of this amendment, in the light of an experiment involving the colleges and the police station in Bourtzwiller, in my constituency: the police are alerted to any incident, threat or case that may develop and they come to do prevention sessions of extreme efficiency. At a time when a criminal offence is being created, the force not only of the law, but also of the police, is wise. The advisability of this amendment in this part of the text is fully corroborated by my experience on the ground.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u99	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u100	I would like to abound in the direction of the rapporteur. There are already police referents and thanks to this law, the crime of school harassment will finally be characterized. For more than ten years, schools have been used to dealing with these cases and, as Mr Fuchs has just said, it works very well. As the rapporteur said, the text cannot specify which services will be appropriate. In some cases, it may be those of a community association, in others those of associations in connection with justice, as is the case with me in Val-d'Oise. It may be in other departments the police referents, who are very well trained. The creation of a school harassment offence will enable police focal points to be trained and even more effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u101	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u102	I confess that I do not understand you: while this text makes school harassment a crime, you do not want this fourth paragraph to explicitly mention law enforcement or justice, as it does for associations. I do not ask that the victims be immediately and exclusively referred to the police, but it seems to me that creating a crime without mentioning law enforcement and justice means stopping in the middle of the ford. It's not sending a good signal. I do not, of course, object to the possibility that a simple association might solve the problem, but why, in a text which creates a new offence, forbid itself to specify that the police or justice forces can also be seized of the problem?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u103	I call Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe to support Amendment No. 25.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u104	As the education code overflows with information, we add new ones to each text on education. The legislators we are would be better off considering the relevance of this method of intervention. Public health research has been alerting us for a very long time to the fact that the provision of information is not effective in itself. Rather, we need to look at individual and collective actions, the effectiveness of which is confirmed by the existing expertise, in particular that of Santé publique France. I encourage you to rely on it, rather than to increase information obligations. There are other ways to improve the school climate and combat school harassment: to develop psychosocial skills, an area in which we have not achieved our objectives; building on existing public health resources and expertise, not only in RHAs – regional health agencies – or in Public Health France, but also in the educational sphere – I am thinking of school doctors; reorganizing school health missions to make it effective, as has been recommended in numerous reports for the past 10 years; qualitatively evaluate the actions already taken to correct or develop them: in short, disseminate a culture of public health. Our approach must not only give us a sense of action but must be part of an effective, comprehensive and coherent policy logic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u105	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u106	It is precisely the meaning of the text, dear colleague, to allow such a comprehensive and coherent action: to combat a phenomenon as protective as school harassment, one must be able to work on all subjects. On the other hand, I totally disagree with your idea of removing the obligation to inform parents and students about school harassment, whereas that is often what is lacking. Having, like many of you, used to going to back-to-school meetings between parents and teachers, I was able to see how the issues of school harassment, cyber-harassment and the use of mobile phones are ignored: there is a real need for information in this area, as awareness of these issues is paramount. Many parents are not at all aware of what school harassment and cyber-harassment are before they have been confronted, and not only as the parents of a harassed child: if all children can be harassed, they can also be harassers. It is necessary to tell parents that they must give their children the codes of good education and teach them that they should not be harassed. The opinion is therefore very unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u107	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u108	I fully agree with the rapporteur: it is vital to inform the parents of pupils. As you said, MP Minot, too few people know what's going on. We have the opportunity to provide simple, clear and legible information on all these very important devices that aim to "go towards". I am therefore totally opposed to this proposal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u109	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u110	Let us not misunderstand: I do not say that the subject is not important and that awareness is not necessary, but information is not necessarily the most effective way to combat these behavioural problems. Why else not make mass information on sexuality education, nutrition, addictions and all the many risks that threaten the development of young people? Only real, long-term and substantive work is likely to bear fruit. I warn you against the feeling that it is enough to impose information for children to adopt the right behaviours: it does not work that way.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u111	I have before me two amendments, Nos 24 and 4, which may be submitted to a joint debate. Mr François Jolivet's amendment No 24 is being defended. Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 4.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u112	Prevention is the best way to combat harassment, whether it takes place primarily within the school or on the Internet, and the latter is often linked to the former. By this amendment, we propose that a briefing on school harassment be held in schools for students and families in order to prevent and educate students about the risks of school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u113	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u114	The opinion is against these amendments, which are completely satisfied with the current wording. In addition, imposing an information meeting may not be the best solution: there are many other ways to inform, for example via an online site, applications or messages to parents. Limiting information to a meeting may reduce information capacity on these topics.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u115	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 10.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u116	I am not at all opposed to the information on school harassment, on the contrary, but we need to do a little bit more, and the information given should cover not only the risks associated with school harassment but also the penalties involved, if we want to mark our minds. Sometimes the young harassers don't feel like they're acting wrong: it's a game towards their little comrade, a bad game, of course, and that can have tragic consequences, but the one who commits the harassment is not necessarily fully aware of the consequences that repeated words or gestures can have. If such an information session, whether at school or elsewhere, is an opportunity to alert about what constitutes harassment and the penalties incurred, it can have a significant deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u117	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u118	Unfavorable. The educational team should be given the freedom to inform as it sees fit and should not be obliged to detail the penalties incurred, especially since the juvenile criminal justice system is complex and such penalties are not necessarily intended to be applied. The important thing is to say to the children: "It is forbidden. You're hurting your comrade, you're damaging the climate of the class, you're not in benevolence. As for the penalties, let the professor or the person responsible for issuing the information be given the freedom to decide whether to speak about it or not. Let us not accumulate the constraints in this area.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u119	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u120	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u121	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u122	All right, now I'm not answering her anymore! If she takes the floor every time,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u123	It is unfortunate to hear you say that the penalties for minors are not necessarily applied and that all this must be left to the teacher's free will, because that's how the victims are treated.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u124	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u125	Yes, I do! By giving the impression that anyone who commits an act of harassment will not be subject to any punishment, since it will be left to the free will of everyone, especially teachers, you further push the victim, who has the impression of not being taken into consideration. I will present an amendment to Article 4, which we have already discussed and which you rejected at the previous reading of the text. I explain that it is not the victim who must have left the institution when she is harassed,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u126	We agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u127	...but rather the student who commits harassment. You did not want it, and now you explain to me that sanctions are left to the free will of whoever wants it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u128	That's not it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u129	You're sending a very bad message here. One cannot create a harassment offence and then say that it will ultimately have little effectiveness and will not be effective. That's a bad signal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u130	The rapporteur has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u131	[[Ms Emmanuelle Ménard exclaimed]] Madame Ménard, this is complete bad faith! On the one hand, we are accused of doing judicial work, and you are telling us that all this is useless. We want to define a strong, powerful prohibition by including in the penal code that school harassment is prohibited, that it is something very bad. That's exactly what teachers or teaching teams will say,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u132	So register it in the law!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u133	...because this information meeting can also be organised by the CPE, the Senior Education Advisor. Your request is therefore fully satisfied. We know your ability to work and your sense of detail, but the detail could lead to legal risks. So let us be simple and write the law in a clear and precise way, instead of always adding things that damage the final message.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u134	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor in support of Amendment No 26.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u135	This is a fallback amendment. If I have not made myself well enough understood by the House and the House maintains the obligation to provide information, it is preferable for it to be part of a project approach of the Committee on Health and Citizenship Education, a body within our institutions which is thinking about carrying out substantive projects and which embraces all the health problems affecting our young people. Harassment is part of a social health issue that needs to be addressed on an ongoing basis and cannot be addressed solely through information. Moreover, the studies show that information is effective on those who are already convinced, and does not affect those who are not, especially adolescents, for whom prohibitions are not the most effective lever – even if I understand that we want to recall these prohibitions. This is not, however, what will play on their behaviour. Making the pupils actors, responsible, capable of a critical act in the face of acts of violence will engage more in a substantive, effective approach that can be promoted by a health education and citizenship committee.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u136	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u137	I would ask you to withdraw this amendment, because it is fully satisfied with Article 1e ra, which will be called in a few moments, and which deals specifically with the role of the Health, Citizenship and Environment Education Committee in combating school harassment. In the absence of withdrawal, the opinion will be unfavourable.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u138	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u139	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u140	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u141	It cannot be overemphasized that such information is automatically part of the committee's draft.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u142	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendments Nos 31 and 32, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u143	The number of amendments tabled clearly shows that the wording of paragraph 5 is problematic. We are focusing on suggestions to improve the drafting process, but we must not delete it: on the contrary, we must strengthen it. In fact, risk information is not sufficient, and this is not what we are asking at the beginning of the year for an institution that accommodates children and parents of students: it must clearly explain the pattern of resolution and the points of support on which a student or parent can rely. Rather, it is the institution's responsibility to decide on and draft a plan to deal with harassment issues. While risk information is useful, it is not sufficient. I turn to my two amendments, Nos 31 and 32, which are very simple. The first provides that the information presents the various solutions for the care of perpetrators and victims. The other, a little more comprehensive, but similar in its formulation, aims to clarify, beyond the risks, the devices that the institution actually puts in place, for example to whom to contact or which telephone numbers to call. We are on a much more operational and concrete level, and that is what we are asking for under this information, which must be more than a umpteenth meeting on risks.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u144	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u145	First of all, I would like to point out that this is information, not a meeting. Secondly, the proposed amendments are quite satisfactory. Indeed, my colleague, read the fourth paragraph, which imposes obligations on schools to provide resources, asking them to adopt action plans providing solutions against school harassment: the information that will follow will obviously focus on what has just been put in place. The amendment is fully satisfied and I therefore request that it be withdrawn. Failing that, unfavorable notice.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u146	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u147	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u148	Mr Bruno Fuchs has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u149	In this case, everything is induced and it is enough to stop at the first paragraph of Article 1! If this measure is included in paragraph 4, why not provide for such information in paragraph 5, with reference to paragraph 4. Legislation must have a logic. However, this is about risk information. Maybe everything is induced, but let's write things down in a simpler and more coherent way. In view of the number of amendments tabled, paragraph 5 was clearly not drafted in a sufficiently precise or incentive manner.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u150	Perhaps we should read the whole text...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u151	Mr rapporteur, would you like to speak again?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u152	Excuse me, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u153	[[Smile]] It's no big deal, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u154	The school project, referred to in Article 3, consists precisely in defining actions in a wide variety of fields and which must be the subject of this information. Everything is perfectly satisfied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u155	[[Smiles and applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] Today is my last day at the perch of this legislature. So I preside with infinite benevolence, but don't abuse it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u156	Mrs Emmanuelle Anthoine has the floor on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u157	The fight against school harassment requires the mobilization of all actors. In addition to schools and their teaching teams, all staff involved in schools, local authorities, associations, social networks, parents of pupils and pupils must also be involved. The prevention of school harassment must be the responsibility of all, as we have agreed for many months in the context of the review and drafting of this text. In this context, school medicine has its full role to play. In addition to training, which will now be offered to doctors and school nurses and psychologists in order to enable them to provide initial care for students who suffer from school harassment, in addition to the participation of these personnel in the development of guidelines and procedures for prevention, there is a need to devote new resources. School medicine is currently in a worrying situation, as has been said many times before me. This was revealed by a report by the National Academy of Medicine, issued by Professor Bégué in 2017. The lack of qualified personnel does not allow school medicine to respond effectively to the imperatives of prevention among students. In order to ensure the effectiveness of the fight against school harassment, it is therefore also necessary to strengthen its capacity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u158	I call Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe to support Amendment No. 29.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u159	I hope I am not going to be unpleasant, but the amendments that I am defending for the health of children in schools are based on thirteen years of experience in school health: it is the public health doctor who is trying to share his competence and experience with you. The first obstacle is the difficulty encountered in effectively applying multi-professional child protection training, and that is where we should first focus our attention, in order to facilitate this approach. Perhaps there is a question of means, and perhaps it is also a question of organisation, but this is really the first step before organising a new training on an interprofessional theme. Indeed, we are not yet in the position of protecting the child. This is what school nurses tell me, who regret not having had training, and school principals, who sometimes say they feel a little poor, not knowing too much about which side to turn. A few moments ago, a college principal told me that she had just taken up her duties without having received any training. It seems to me neither consistent nor effective to add in an additional article, in addition to article L. 542-1 of the Education Code, training on school harassment, although I am quite convinced, like all of you, that it is a real question, and a question of public health. The professionals concerned by the training provided for in Article L. 542-1 are precisely those mentioned in the current Article 3. It is therefore proposed not to increase the number of mechanisms and to integrate the prevention of harassment into existing training. Let's stop cutting the health of children into pieces – such as sexuality education or addictions. The approach must be comprehensive, otherwise we risk weakening training by multiplying injunctions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u160	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u161	You refer to the prism of your experience, but here it is a question of giving all adults working around childhood the means to accompany children. But your wording would exclude, for example, magistrates or law enforcement officials who, in the latest news – and I hope that it will be so for a long time – are not part of national education. Opinion against this amendment, therefore.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u162	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u163	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u164	Mrs Marie Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u165	I probably haven't been clear enough.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u166	Above all, we do not agree!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u167	It is not enough to provide in-house training for national education: all actors must be trained. Protecting children also means protecting them from harassment. By multiplying denominations, global formations are weakened.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u168	I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 21.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u169	As my colleague has pointed out, it is very difficult to train the staff appointed in this article, particularly those in national education: in primary education, continuing training is focused on "reading, writing, counting" and, in secondary education, since there are no substitutes, teachers are prohibited from training, such as the CPEs and all actors in school life. Before you train them, you have to recruit them!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u170	Don't you have enough to say anything?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u171	You were very careful when you stated in section 3 that this would be a possibility, while the wording adopted by the Senate referred to an obligation. We wish, by this amendment, to return to this obligation, because, as you yourself say for the other articles, to include in the law that it is an obligation may make it possible to commit the necessary means. Writing that training can be offered is rather vague and means that it will never be done since it is not mandatory. That is the meaning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u172	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u173	I very much appreciated your slightly orthogonal demonstration of what you told us earlier, that the law was useless. Here you give us proof by the example that the law can serve. I share your concern about continuing training. The first version of my text referred to an obligation of continuing training, but let us look at reality in the face and do not make texts that are legislative injunctions without any scope. The continuous training of the million national education personnel will not be done with a finger-clap.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u174	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u175	Let us start with initial training, let us put in a module on the issue of school harassment, climate and confidence and continue, through the PHARE programme, to train people who will then be able to train others. In a capillary manner, over time, we will be able to empower all national education personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u176	Mrs Tamarelle-Verhaeghe has the floor to support Amendment No. 30.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u177	I heard the rapporteur say that I saw things through my professional prism and my training. I think it's better not to see them through this prism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u178	That's good!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u179	The purpose of this amendment is to reintroduce the paragraph added by the Senate which concerns the mutual knowledge of the actors involved in preventing and combating school harassment. School harassment situations, like many situations relating to the health and protection of children, often encounter a lack of understanding among different professionals within and outside national education, and thus of communication between professionals. Where are the places where these actors can work in perfect connection? I know examples where PMI (maternal and child protection) and school medicine do the files but can't talk to each other. It is in order to remedy this lack that Adrien Taquet's law provides for the experimentation of children's and family homes where all the actors and protagonists of children meet and work around a health project, as is done in homes and health centres. This is the subject of this amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u180	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u181	The adjective "reciprocal" you want to introduce is inappropriate and does not mean anything. It is my understanding that the provision adopted by the Senate and deleted by the commission on re-reading actually concerns the "respective" competencies of each. Beyond this lexical question, the content of training seems to me to fall within the regulatory field. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u182	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor to support Amendment No. 7.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u183	Above all, it allows the Secretary of State to ask her to make commitments in the field of school medicine. I imagine that all those who are in favour of the criminal offence introduced in this bill are also in favour of prevention and psychological, medical and social support, which are sorely lacking in schools. Once the crime has been created, what will happen between the time the complaint is filed, and the investigation and trial? Probably not much for months and months, both for the victim and for the one who harassed. That is why, in addition to being opposed to the introduction of this offence, I am talking about an imbalance in this bill. People will be able to complain about school harassment, but we will still be short of doctors, nurses, psychologists, social workers in schools. You can answer me by drawing up a list of what has already been done, but that is insufficient, and we all agree here to say so. That is why, I repeat, this amendment is essentially addressed to you, Madam Secretary of State: what commitments do you make to national representation on preventive medicine in institutions?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u184	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u185	We all share the same view, and we all have this concern. Moreover, the Minister of National Education, who was on the bench at first reading, had admitted it and recalled the figures: of the 1,505 positions of school doctors, only 631 are filled, if my memories are good. The aim is to make this profession attractive and to be able to recruit doctors. You talked about what happened when you filed a complaint; It is indeed a matter of concern. I hope that there will be as few complaints as possible, and that is why there is an accompanying and preventive component. In the event of a complaint, we often leave the time of childhood. I would remind you, however, that we have reformed the juvenile criminal justice system and that the deadlines are now much shorter, that a much faster response is being given. It is also the meaning of the arrangements on the links that must be made between justice and educational and educational services in each of the schools. In this respect, we draw inspiration from the Finnish model, which involves all actors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u186	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u187	The Minister of National Education recalled the progress that had been made. When it is said that harassment is everyone's business, it is the public service of the inclusive school that makes it possible to bring into the school professionals who were not there. Cooperation with the medico-social sector means that more and more forces and resources come together to work on alerts and to support the professionals of the educational community in the broad sense of the term. Yes, we're putting the resources in place. Of course, we still have to train, of course, positions are still waiting for recruitment, and the challenge is to be able to accompany the recognition of these important professions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u188	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u189	Madam Secretary of State, I have not heard any figures or dates from you on the commitments you are talking about and, for the time being, we are not seeing any improvement. As for school medicine, you know that it is not enough to say that it is not attractive; You know the reasons. I remember that when I was a departmental advisor in the Hauts-de-Seine, the majority had explained to us that the positions of school doctors in the PMI were open but that she could not recruit. We proposed a number of measures, including an increase in the scale. She ended up coming and now there are a little more PMI doctors.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u190	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u191	I want to support my colleague Elsa Faucillon's amendment on this important subject. Setting goals to improve our school system in the fight against harassment related to school medicine is of no use if we do not empower ourselves to do so. Indeed, we know that you have already done things, but when we say that we need to do much better, we clearly ask ourselves what means we are giving ourselves to make these measures effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u192	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u193	Mrs Faucillon, earlier you said that, after filing a complaint, pending investigation and judgment, nothing was happening. If these measures are put in place, at some point parents, teachers and the entire educational community are quite lacking and do not know what to do in case of school harassment. Very often, you have the right to a speech of the kind "it's a story of children, it's going to go by yourself", while the situation can be serious, or even worsen until the police file a complaint. To recognize that there is a problem is already moving forward, it is trying to find a solution. It is important to note that in case of a problem you should not close your eyes but try to find a solution. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In reviewing the Social Security Funding Bill, we passed the possibility for children to consult a psychologist free of charge. Ms Rubin considers that this is not enough; Of course, but that is a step forward. It is important to say and repeat that it is a great step forward to be able to detect immediately that there is a problem and that both the harasser and the harassed child can be immediately cared for by a psychologist, followed and accompanied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u194	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor to support Amendment No. 23.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u195	It is aimed at re-establishing a relevant measure added by the Senate, which we had defended at first reading: the possibility for families to change their school children without taking into account the school card, when they are harassed and unfortunately they are unable to stay in their school. Of course, you will tell me, we can find some examples of children who may have changed institutions, including out of the sector, as a result of harassment, but it is not included anywhere, either in the education code or in decrees or orders, that a student who has been harassed by school can obtain such an exemption to change schools. The information given on the website of the Ministry of Education does not mention cases of school harassment when referring to the possibility of obtaining a derogation. On the other hand, the law provides that in the event of proven incidents of school harassment, a child may be removed from school to attend family education, without waiting for the validation of his/her file. This measure has been included by the MODEM group in the law on the observance of the principles of the Republic, which is very good. But it is incoherent that our education code should include de-schooling but not institutional change in the event of school harassment. It is not a question of encouraging families to change their child from school to any problem, quite the contrary, and we leave it to the Government to define the modalities of this change, but some situations of school harassment are too serious not to give parents more visibility on the solutions they have to help their child.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u196	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u197	I thank you for reminding you that it was our group that presented this measure within the framework of the law which reinforces respect for the principles of the Republic. I had defended an amendment that provided an opportunity for a harassed child to follow family education, and I believe it is indeed necessary at times. But every time, it's a double punishment for the child. Most of the time, a harassed child wants to stay in school and not be harassed anymore. It is, as far as possible, within the school that solutions must be found, for the well-being of the child but also for the other children, otherwise we do not send a very good signal. As you said, there are derogations. We know a child can be changed from school. We must keep to the current situation, which takes account of most cases. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u198	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u199	I understand the honourable Member's concern, but it is rather the school environment that needs to be addressed. We will not be able to achieve this by formally enrolling in the legislation. On the other hand, we must apply zero tolerance – what academic inspections are already doing – and create a caring environment. Education at home must be possible, but the most desirable thing is to change the school environment in which the child operates. It is possible to do so by working in good intelligence with all the actors. We must fight the evil at the root by acting in situ in school, college, high school or university, because it is not for the child to have to undergo a displacement.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u200	Mrs Beatrice Descamps has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u201	I fully agree with you, Madam Secretary of State – your comments corroborate the arguments I have put forward in defence of my amendment. On the other hand, I do not understand the idea of double sanction referred to by the rapporteur. For my part, I want the child to be good and to be good at school.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u203	So do we!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u204	[[Ms. Sylvia Pinel applauds]] There are cases where unfortunately – I insist on this term – it is necessary to change the school child. But, I repeat, my only wish is that the child should be in school and not have to change it. That is why I regret the wording of your answer, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u205	If she was clumsy, please excuse me!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u206	Mrs Zivka Park has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u207	Be assured, Mrs. Descamps, that we are all concerned about the well-being of our children, and that we do not want to leave in an institution a child who feels bad about it. Our goal is to make sure that he can stay there because, let us repeat, it is not up to the harassed child to change institutions. [[Mrs Véronique Brocard applauds]] However, I would like to ask you a question, Mrs Descamps. When you went to the academic inspection to ask for the change of establishment of a child harassed in a very serious way, have you ever been refused? If you answer in the affirmative, this is a case where the problem needs to be addressed and the child's need to change. For my part, in five years' term of office, I have not once faced a refusal of academic inspection in this kind of situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u208	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor to support Amendment No. 36.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u209	It aims to re-establish a provision that we adopted at first reading, in order to ensure that all actors in education are informed of how they can work with associations. Indeed, there are many associations – the Butterflies or the Hugo Association!, for example – that are fully aware of school harassment, can help our children but also offer tools to the adults around them, especially to teachers and other professionals in childhood, who may feel destitute.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u210	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u211	Finally, I think of the good of this provision against which I was rather reluctant in our debates at first reading. We had to find ways and means. On the basis of the fact that associations play a key role in combating harassment, it was necessary to find the framework for them to intervene in school and to ensure that this was done well. The new wording of Article 3a, which you are proposing in this amendment, will make it possible to move forward in the right direction. Favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u212	On Article 3 quater, I am seized by the Socialist and Related Group of a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly. Mrs Sylvia Pinel, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u213	This article reproduces a provision that was adopted in the context of the examination, during the niche of the Socialist and related group last January, of a bill by our colleague Michèle Victory. The aim is to make it possible to recruit education assistants in CDI after six years of practice. The Freedom and Territory Group is satisfied with this, given the difficulties of recruitment and the working conditions of the EDAs. Remember that the profile of EDAs has changed: they are no longer just students who want short contracts, but people who want to invest in the long term and to see their career prospects open, which is not currently possible due to the limitation of their commitment to six years and in CSD only. The institutions, which are struggling to recruit AEDs, warn us of the need to strengthen supervision. It is therefore relevant to include this provision in this text, bearing in mind that EDAs are essential for the proper functioning of schools and for school life. They are on the front line in the fight against school harassment. As we said in general discussion, however, we regret that the second provision of our colleague Michèle Victory's bill on the CDI for accompanying students with disabilities has not been incorporated, while students with disabilities are, unfortunately, often the targets of harassment. We need to be able to protect and accompany them better. This is a prerequisite for their proper inclusion in the ordinary environment. [[Mr. Michel Castellani applauds]] Finally, with this article, we touch on one of the major issues in the fight against school harassment: means and resources – in the first place in personnel.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u214	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 12.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u215	This article concerns article L. 916-1 of the Education Code, which states that educational assistants may be recruited, in particular for the supervision and supervision of pupils. You want to make these recruitments mandatory. All right. For my part, I fully agree with that, but I would like to make sure that it is national education that will provide financial support for these recruitments and not for the community on which the education assistants depend, i.e. the communes for schools, the departments for colleges and the regions for high schools. I was asked the question and I confess that I was unable to give a clear answer.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u216	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u217	It seems to me that yes, and that is why we had the debate.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u218	Is that national education?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u219	Yes, I can reassure you on this point. That is why I am asking for your amendment to be withdrawn. Otherwise, I'd send an unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u220	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u221	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u222	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u223	If I have the assurance that it is national education that is financially responsible for recruitment, I withdraw my amendment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u224	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor to support Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u225	The aim of this amendment by the Socialist and Related Group is to remove the reference to a decree concerning the possible CDISation of educational assistants who have carried out their duties for six years. When considering the proposal for a law to combat the precariousness of accompanying students with disabilities and educational assistants, the majority introduced, against the rapporteur's opinion, the passage by decree for the CDIsation des AEDs. The authors of this amendment consider that it is not necessary for the regulatory power to lay down the terms of the CDIsation, in so far as the legislator has provided for the possibility of a CDIsation for the AEDs after six years, with a view to continuing their tasks. The legal clarity of this provision therefore does not deserve to be confused by conditions that could delay the CDIsation process and further restrict its possibility, which would be contrary to the intention of the legislator. In addition, we know that the legislative time is long and that some decrees are sometimes taken several months after the enactment of the law. However, the health crisis has pointed out that the need to strengthen school life is enormous. The Minister of National Education himself indicated that it was necessary to recruit even more EDAs in the fall of 2022. We cannot take the risk that administrative delays will not allow for the hiring of AEDs in the coming school year, thus penalising students and effectively placing AEDs unemployed. We would like you to make a commitment on this point, Madam Secretary of State. [[Marie-Noëlle Battistel, Elsa Faucillon, Sylvia Pinel and Béatrice Descamps applaud]] By the way, I want to thank Mrs Pinel for her speech. Taking advantage of the presence of the Secretary of State for Persons with Disabilities, I would also like to reiterate my request to improve the status and fate of the AESH. Only you can do it, Madam Secretary of State. If we don't do it now, we'll do it in two or three years, while these people are waiting for an answer. We owe them more than words, we owe them strong deeds.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u226	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u227	Once again, Madam Victory, I would like to thank you for your work on the AEDs. After meeting with those in my constituency, I found that their situation was indeed a little incongruous: they wanted to continue working in establishments where they liked them, but they could not do so because we were still thinking that these jobs were intended for students wishing to finance their studies. Our vision has evolved. EDAs have professionalized and are doing a remarkable service in schools because they have a very fine knowledge of the school and the students. We're moving forward. However, we will retain the use of an order-in-council. Count on me, Mrs. Victory, to put a friendly pressure on the minister so that this decree is taken very quickly. With respect to the AESHs, I share your concern, but I would point out that part of the hourly volume of the AESHs depends on the communities as it is done on out-of-school time. It is a little tricky to make a decision here that would have consequences for the communities. Let us move forward on the AEDs and continue the work on the AESHs – of which the Secretary of State will not fail to talk to you – that are necessary in our education system.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u228	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u229	Rest assured, honourable Member, we are making sure that the CDI of the AEDs can come out very quickly because it is really important. The Minister is committed to making the provision operational as soon as possible. As far as the status of the AESHs is concerned, it will not have escaped you that it is the object of all our attentions: there is no longer any aided contract; They are all in contract with national education. During the social dialogue undertaken within the framework of the Grenelle de l'Éducation, they received the full attention of the minister and they obtained an increase in their salary scale as well as the possibility of increasing their weekly hours by working outside school time. We are working with local authorities, in particular on the creation of AESH resources within local inclusive support hubs (PIAL). We are also improving their training, including joint training with the medical and social sector, in order to have cross-examinations that meet the special educational needs of many students. I can assure you, honourable Member, that we are working to improve the status of the AESH, outstanding staff whose accompaniment is essential for students with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u230	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u231	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Victory, who initiated this measure. If we need decrees, it is because AED contracts will have to change legal support to be transformed into CDI. Currently, DDAs are mostly student overseers. To transform their contracts into CDI, it will be necessary to characterize their types of missions and specify, for example, whether they are linked to school life or rather involved in the fight against harassment. The use of decrees allows this transformation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u232	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u233	In fact, Ms. Rilhac, only 30% of the EDAs are students, as much as saying that they are far from the majority. I do not want to reopen the debate that we had during my consideration of my bill, nor do I want to claim that nothing has been done. However, it is necessary to recall the situation of the AESHs to whom their contract of employment imposes a trial period which can range from three to six years. I have heard your reminder of what has already been done, but I am talking about the expectations of these people. I am not used to insist on this, but, quite frankly, when I was working on my bill, I received 400 to 500 long emails from AESH. They told me that it is absolutely necessary to take this step, even if it is a very small step, because they cannot stay in this situation, with such precarious contracts. One has to realize that an AESH is often a single mom with her children. I would like to make it clear that, contrary to what has been said by some, it is very rare for her to have chosen her part-time – this is a very minority case. In addition, she herself is often the mother of a child with disabilities and is therefore very familiar with the problem. She was hired for a contract that none of us here would accept, with a trial period of three to six years. I would really like you to move very quickly on this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u234	Mr Jean François Mbaye has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u235	I know that the debate is about AEDs. However, as early as 2018 I asked you about the AESH issue and today I join the choir formed by my colleagues to discuss this problem. Despite the progress made, the situation of these personnel remains an important issue. You are aware that there are difficulties in many departments. In mine, for example, Val-de-Marne, notifications of the CDMH (departmental home of disabled persons) have increased by 30 per cent, there are 1330 for individualised assistance and 400 for mutualised assistance. There are problems at various levels: the training of HESAs, the hourly quota or employment contracts. After hearing your comments, I hope we can all work together to improve the situation. Thank you for putting on the agenda of our work the issue of school harassment while our assembly today welcomes high school students from my constituency, who are very involved in this issue.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u236	I put Article 3 quater to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u237	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 76 Number of votes cast 76 Absolute majority 39 For adoption 74 Against 2
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u238	Mrs Nathalie Bassire has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u239	We would like to welcome the creation of a specific article on school harassment in the Penal Code as part of the bill we are considering today. This measure, long supported by our colleague Emmanuelle Anthoine, is a particularly anticipated development for school harassment to be identified as a criminal offence and recognized as such by society. It is only once the law specifically punishes this phenomenon that it can be fully recognized and appointed by society and the consciences will thus be awakened in this regard. At the same time, we fully support the creation of an awareness-raising course on school harassment. However, we are concerned, together with our colleague already mentioned, that this internship is not systematically prescribed for the perpetrators of school harassment. An educational measure must accompany the sanction in order to ensure that the fight against school harassment is fully effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u240	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u241	I have before me two identical amendments, Nos 6 and 18, to delete Article 4. Amendment No 6 by Mrs Elsa Faucillon is being defended. I call Mrs Sabine Rubin to support Amendment No. 18.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u242	Yes, we insist. We call for the deletion of this article. First of all, the arguments used by the rapporteur to justify the introduction of a new offence are not convincing. I'm not the one who says it, but the president of the Marion La main outstretched association. "Go get money, train people," she told the newspaper Libération, which published an article on the subject on November 18th, which also features the reaction of Jean-Pierre Bellon, director of Resis – Resources and systemic studies against school intimidation: "Punishing students... as if that were what we needed. It's really a law for nothing. These people, who know what they are talking about, think that such a measure is useless. With this provision, which also concerns adults, you make the choice to increase the penalties. We would like to know how such a punitive auction would be effective. I would remind you that there are already penalties for harassment. It would therefore be sufficient – and you are asked to ensure this – for the measures in question to be known and implemented. This requires resources. Let us therefore begin by applying these sanctions before creating new ones.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u243	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u244	I don't understand you, Mrs. Rubin. On the one hand, you say that it is only necessary to apply the penalties that already exist. But on the other hand, you want to create an aggravating circumstance, which would make this text and the part of the penal code relating to this subject an incomprehensible melo-melo for our children. I have already told you: I was not completely convinced at the outset of the need to create an autonomous criminal offence. Then I read the speech delivered in 1985 by Robert Badinter – which is part of the readings I like – on the reform of the penal code. That's what convinced me. He said: "Every criminal code must fulfil a dual function. The first, obvious, is the repressive function. The primary purpose of criminal law is to defend civil society and its members. To this end, the law prescribes penalties for those who wait for the social order. The second function of criminal law is more secretive. Every society is based on certain values recognized by collective consciousness. These values translate into prohibitions. And these prohibitions in turn give rise to punishments against those who misunderstand them. Thus the criminal law expresses by sanctions that it enacts the system of values of a society. This is the expressive function of criminal law. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u245	Amendment No 13 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u246	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendment No. 14.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u247	I defend this appeal amendment because it really cares about me. I had already had the opportunity to defend him at first reading. It is intended to supplement paragraph 3 with the following sentence: "Students who harass other pupils shall be excluded from the educational institution for a period which shall remain at the discretion of the principal of the institution concerned. » As our colleague Chiche explained during the general discussion, parents, families are most often totally deprived when their child is harassed at school. They then ask themselves many questions: can the child change his or her place of residence during the year? Can they go to school at home for the time that calm comes back? I propose to reverse the logic by excluding momentarily, the time that calm comes back, the child harasser of the establishment. This would allow the harassed child to blow but also and above all to make it clear that the victim is restored to his or her rights, that he or she is supported by the institution and that it is the harasser who must be neutralized, before being dealt with by the court where necessary, if the facts are sufficiently serious and necessary. The rapporteur and the Secretary of State, you yourself have reminded yourself on several occasions, and rightly so, at the time of the discussion on Article 3, that with this bill your objective was that the harassed child should remain within the institution. It turns out that, sometimes, in very specific situations, when the acts are serious – which is obviously at the discretion of the director of the institution – it is necessary, in order for the child to remain within the institution, to exclude from the institution the harassing child, for a period that may even be very short, for example two or three days, the time to calm the game.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u248	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u249	The opinion is once again unfavourable. However, I would add one element of an answer: in general, in a situation of school harassment, there is not a single author. Regrettably, a whole class is fighting against a student. In this case, should we exclude all these harassing students for two days? The problem is a little more complex than what you're saying. Methods already exist. Protocols have been put in place and are working. Earlier, Ms. Rubin cited Mr. Bellon, who developed a very effective method when applying it as soon as a case of school harassment arose. In addition, an administrative penalty, with no time limit, imposed and decided by a single person, while there are disciplinary councils in an institution, does not seem to me to be in conformity with the principles of administrative and constitutional law. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u250	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u251	Disadvantaged too. Everything was said by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u252	Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u253	Sometimes I feel like I'm seeing a dialogue of the deaf. If a child is harassed by all the other students in his or her class, it is obviously not this measure that will be adopted.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u254	In this case, your amendment must be formulated differently! Because, with this writing, the measurement is automatic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u255	No, because it is only a matter of giving the director of the institution the opportunity to temporarily withdraw the harasser child. Of course, if you count thirty stalkers for a single victim, you can choose the reverse method.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u256	That's not what you wrote! You wrote that the harassing students are "excluded"!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u257	If you find that my amendment is not perfectly drafted, you can amend it. But you're hostile to all the proposals I've been making for a while.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u258	No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u259	For example, you have already told me that, in any case, it was not a good idea to put the police in the loop because sanctions were rarely applied.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u260	It's not that...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u261	I am simply telling you that the adoption of this amendment would send a very strong signal not only to the educational community but also to the families, by making them understand that it is not the harassed child who is guilty and that, therefore, it is not he who must be punished and removed from school. It is indeed the harasser student who, at the discretion of the director of the institution, must be able to be left out, neutralized for some time, obviously in agreement with the educational community. It is not a revolution but simply a practical and pragmatic measure to respond to certain urgent situations.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u262	On the whole of the bill, I am seized by the groups The Republic on the move, the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats and act together on a request for a public vote. The vote is announced in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u263	Amendment No 16 by Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard is being defended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u264	I call Mr Bruno Fuchs to support Amendment No. 35.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u265	Work on school harassment shows that these situations are being extended almost systematically on social networks. It would therefore be desirable to add, with regard to the internship to which the harasser should submit, that it should include an awareness component on the risks "related to the use of social networks". It seems obvious that an internship in which this issue is addressed does not require the same resources. Therefore, it seems necessary to make such a clarification in the law. I draw my reasoning from the Erwan Balanant report "Understanding and Combating School Harassment".
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u266	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u267	We have pushed this reasoning to the end as we have included the digital component in the concept of school harassment. Your amendment is therefore completely satisfied. Unfavorable opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u268	I call Mrs Emmanuelle Ménard to support Amendments Nos 17 and 15, which can be put together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u269	Amendment No 17 is intended to supplement Article 6, paragraph 3. In my view, the commission of acts of school harassment should not only be punished by a course to raise awareness of school life, but should also, where appropriate, be the subject of a call to order before the mayor. That is what this amendment provides for. Such a measure is symbolic, but it must be borne in mind that on the occasion of such a call to order, the mayor may be accompanied by different persons, including the police commissioner or a representative of the gendarmerie, where the situation permits. It could therefore be useful. Amendment No 15, on the other hand, provides that the civic training course must highlight the penalties for school harassment. He referred to the discussion I had initiated in defending Amendment No 10 at the beginning of the sitting: it seems to me to be very important to reiterate that any act of violence can be condemned by the competent authority and that impunity does not have its place in these situations. Children, who are often unaware of the seriousness of the acts they commit, should be reminded that harassment is punishable and can lead to sometimes very heavy penalties.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u270	What is the committee's opinion on these two amendments?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u271	It is unfavorable, especially since the mayor's call to the order of a minor is already perfectly possible.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u272	What is the Government's opinion?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u273	Same opinion.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u274	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u275	I was going to make the same point as the rapporteur. For having previously been deputy mayor of my commune, I can testify that, when a case of school harassment occurred, the mayor systematically received the child and the parents concerned. This approach has strong consequences for the child as well as for families. So the device you are proposing already exists. It is obviously important to recall this possibility: you are right on this point. On the other hand, I do not think it is necessary to include it in the law.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u276	Mrs Catherine Pujol has the floor to support Amendment No. 5.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u277	It aims to restore the original title of the bill, stating that it aims "to combat school harassment and cyber-harassment". In fact, school harassment is very often accompanied by cyber-harassment: the second is, in the vast majority of cases, the relay of the first. It would be incomprehensible to claim to fight against school harassment without including cyber-harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u278	What is the opinion of the committee?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u279	The original title of the bill concerned only school harassment: it was the senators who added cyber-harassment. I am against such a mention, which would suggest that harassment and cyber-harassment are two different things, even though, as we have repeatedly said in our discussions, school harassment is protective and includes digital harassment, which we must combat.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u280	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u281	In explanation of vote, the floor is for Mrs Béatrice Descamps.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u282	I would like to thank the rapporteur for bringing the issue of school harassment to the attention of this House. We will vote in favour of this text. However, I stress that I do not understand why the rapporteur believes that allowing a child to change school when it has become impossible for him to stay in his school would constitute a "double penalty", when you yourself defended the amendment allowing family education in the event of harassment. Such a decision is, of course, still a failure, and we must do everything we can to avoid it, but unfortunately it is sometimes unavoidable. To reply to Mrs Park, I confirm that we are working well with the academic directors of the National Education Services (DASEN) – I do this often in my Northern Department. But I return to you the question: do you think that all the parents of harassed children will address their MP to carry their voices to DASEN? I'm far from sure. I will conclude by repeating to the Secretary of State that it is important to better recognize the AESH – you know that I have been invested in this issue for years – because it will also help to combat school harassment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u283	Mrs Sabine Rubin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u284	Badinter for Badinter, here's what the seal keeper said in 1984:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u285	Be careful!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u286	..."Imprisonment itself is an evil rather than a remedy. This makes the minor aware that he or she is being treated as an offender, and thus he or she feels delinquent. He becomes a delinquent. » In keeping with the spirit of this comment, we will abstain on this bill,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u287	Well, congratulations!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u288	What courage!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u289	... in that it creates a new offence and increases the penalties imposed on minors, without creating any obligation or granting any means to avoid drama, rather than punishing them once committed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u290	What a shame!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u291	We can talk about AESH again, if you like!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u292	Mrs Cécile Rilhac has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u293	Like you, ladies and gentlemen, I am always bruised to hear the suffering of children who have been subjected to constant harassment, who make them live an ordeal at school, but also at home – because, as you know, school harassment unfortunately does not stop at school gates, but continues very often on social networks. Beyond these terrible stories, school harassment affects almost one in ten children. That's way too much. The children who are victims of it never come out unharmed: the psychological and physical consequences are important, and personal reconstruction can take several years. By introducing a school harassment offence, we finally provide an answer not only to the victims but also to the perpetrators. The suffering endured by the victims will be truly recognized and heard, and the perpetrators of school violence can be heavily punished, but especially accompanied so that they understand the seriousness of their acts and do not become adult harassers. We do not want to introduce a repressive policy at all, but to establish a clear legal framework, to inculcate into our children what is prohibited, while at the same time doing education and pedagogy. That is the whole meaning of this bill. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] In conclusion, I address a particular thought to the young Evaëlle and her parents, but also to the students and teachers of her college in Herblay, in my constituency, who have experienced the drama of harassment. It is in order to combat these tragedies that the working Republic Group is very happy to provide a satisfactory legal response to children who are victims of school harassment. We are therefore in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u294	Mrs Blandine Brocard has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u295	Throughout our discussions, we have had the opportunity to recall the extent of school harassment and its often dramatic effects on the physical, psychological and emotional health of children, their families and their classmates. The observation is without appeal: all of us, on a personal basis, have been associated with harassment, whether it affects our own children or those of our loved ones. Although the Government has been committed in recent years to strengthening the fight against this scourge, the adoption of this text remains essential and even necessary. In this regard, I would like once again to welcome the investment and the long-term work carried out by my colleague Erwan Balanant: his commitment to this issue has been unwavering and has made it possible to translate the recommendations he made in his report into an ambitious and expected bill. I am also pleased that this ambition has been maintained throughout our work. In particular, it was necessary to retain the two provisions which had caused the Joint Joint Committee to fail. I will not mention the details here, but let me return for a moment to the creation of the autonomous offence of school harassment. This measure seems to us to be very important – and Mrs Rubin does not like it: it is obviously not a question of overtly stigmatizing the harassing children, who are known to have been harassed very often themselves. On the other hand, the creation of a crime allows, as many of us have said and repeated, to impose a strict ban. I know this is not right for you, but our society can only define itself by strict prohibitions and red lines that must not be crossed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u296	These prohibitions are not criminal!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u297	We are therefore proud to restore the creation of this autonomous crime. [[Applause on the benches of the Dem group and on some benches of the LaREM group]] You will understand: our ambition has not weakened. The Group of the European People's Party welcomes the balance we have achieved in order to guarantee better protection for our children and to ensure them a calm and complete education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u298	Mr Benoit Potterie has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u299	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Thank you, dear Erwan Balanant, for allowing us, thanks to this bill, to debate school harassment, which – as we have said – represents a real scourge, since it affects more than 700000 children in France, as many families and teachers, facing difficult and sometimes dramatic situations each year. The school must remain a place of emancipation, a sanctuary of knowledge and learning, in which violence has no place. This text contributes to this. The members of the Group of the European People's Party are very much in favour of it and will of course vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u300	I put the whole bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u301	The result of the vote is as follows: Number of voters 93 Number of votes cast 90 Absolute majority 46 For adoption 90 Against 0
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u302	The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u303	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I just wanted to thank you for taking this issue so important to the students, their families and the Republic as a whole, so that we could together build a soothing and caring society for the benefit of the young people, whose presence this morning I welcome in our stands.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u304	The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u305	The meeting was resumed.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u306	The next item is the discussion, on a new reading, of the draft law, adopted with amendments by the National Assembly at second reading, aimed at strengthening the right to abortion (No. 4929, 4985).
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u307	The Deputy Minister for Self-Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u308	Today we are continuing our discussions on this sensitive and extremely important issue of strengthening the right to abortion. Attacks and challenges to this right have not ceased in the world in recent months, particularly in the United States, but also in several European Union countries. Do we still need examples to remind ourselves that the right to abortion is far from being guaranteed for all women and that, dearly acquired just forty-seven years ago, it must always be affirmed, protected, strengthened? Moreover, the health crisis that we have been experiencing for two years now imposes on us an even greater vigilance to ensure that sexual and reproductive rights are guaranteed and that the inalienable right to abortion is fully effective. The re-reading of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion is an opportunity for the Government to reaffirm its full commitment to unremittingly defend women's right to abortion in safety, with respect for their choice, informed by access to reliable and objective information, and as close as possible to their place of life. The Ministry of Solidarity and Health has thus stressed the need to continuously strengthen access to the supply of abortion – voluntary termination of pregnancy – at any point in the territory, so as not to leave any woman without the possibility of exercising her right. In this respect, I would like to tell you about the status of the commitments made to national representation. The time frame for a drug-related abortion in the city will be extended to seven weeks of pregnancy, and the journey can be made, depending on the choice and health status of women, by teleconsultation. The Minister of Solidarity and Health, Olivier Véran, had committed himself to bringing these derogations, taken within the framework of the state of emergency, into the common law: the process is about to succeed. The High Health Authority (HAS), which was seized in September 2020, updated its recommendations last April on the course of drug abortion, confirming the extension of deadlines and the use of teleconsultation. The implementing decree, which had just been examined by the Council of State, should therefore be able to be published very quickly. Instrumental IVGs in health centres are now possible, with the decree specifying the conditions that were published last April. The framework for the testing of instrumental abortions by midwives in health facilities has been discussed and finalized with medical and midwifery professionals. The implementing decree, issued on 31 December 2021, specifies, inter alia, the training and experience required by midwives and the specific organization required of the testing health facilities. It is accompanied by a decree organizing the national call for applications to voluntary health institutions. This approach, which must lead to the selection of some 50 teams, is an important step in laying the foundation for a practice that will undoubtedly facilitate the organization of hospital teams to meet the demands of abortion, and will bring women a new possible interlocutor in their journey. Under the Social Security Financing Act (LFSS) for 2021, the compulsory full-paying third party on the expenses covered by compulsory health insurance is now provided for all women, which corresponds to 100% of the costs associated with abortion, in the framework of care packages. In addition to this paid third party, there is the guarantee of respect for the secrecy of the payment of these costs for all women. You have also repeatedly defended, ladies and gentlemen, the need to advance information and education about intimate, emotional life and, overall, the need to promote sexual health more strongly. In this regard, I would like to welcome the work and commitment of your delegation to women's rights and equality between men and women, under the chairmanship of Mrs Marie-Pierre Rixain. The Government fully shares those objectives. For example, the 2021-2024 roadmap for the National Sexual Health Strategy, which was co-built with all stakeholders, was published on 1 December. It includes concrete actions to strengthen sexual health promotion, information and education, including through the development and dissemination of tools for the promotion of sexual health, accessible to persons with disabilities or allophones, and through the strengthening of knowledge on the sexual health of young people within the framework of the universal national service (UNS). It reaffirms the need for an offer of "accessible", "readable and close to places of life" sexual health, and includes action dedicated to strengthening access to abortion, as we must always strengthen the effective exercise of this right at every point in the territory. The first concrete measures were adopted within the framework of the LFSS for 2022. I am thinking of extending the "long-term sexual health consultation" to all young people up to the age of 25, so that sexual health does not continue to be seen as a woman's business. I am also thinking of free access to contraception for women up to the age of 25, in order to take into account the economic and social vulnerabilities of young adults. Finally, I would like to recall the importance of midwives in our prevention and health policies for women as well as for men. To this end, I should like to highlight the progress of the Act of 26 April 2021 aimed at improving the health system through trust and simplification, known as the Rist Act, which provides that midwives can now prescribe to their patients and partners the detection and treatment of sexually transmitted infections. As you know, last November we also signed a memorandum of understanding with the profession, which was the result of a long process of consultation. I repeat, the Government is proud to play an essential role today in this recognition, long awaited by the 20,000 or so people in this profession, to strengthen as ever the attractiveness of this profession and its place in our public policies, particularly in the area of sexual and reproductive health. In December 2020, the National Ethics Advisory Committee (NEAC), which the Government had wished to address on the issue of extending the legal deadline, which involves women's rights, their health, as well as the role of professionals and access to abortion, delivered its opinion. It recalls the importance of measures to protect women and prevent unwanted pregnancies, as well as the need to strengthen emotional education on sexual and reproductive health. The NCCE states that while the risk of GVI is increasing with gestational age, they are nevertheless low and differ little between 12 and 14 weeks of pregnancy. Finally, the NCCE, in focusing on the principles of autonomy, charity, equity and non-infancy towards women, considered that there was no ethical objection to extending the time frame for access to the IVG by two weeks. However, in order to make concrete progress on women's right to dispose of their bodies, it is necessary to pursue the improvement of their career path, so that the so-called late abortions are better cared for, and without delay. It is a right of women, and it is our duty and responsibility to all of us to enable everyone to exercise his or her full exercise, according to his or her choice, situation and place of life. These elements have been clearly identified by the CCNE as one of the obstacles that in fact lead women to exceed the current legal term. The text we are debating therefore calls for a debate on the exercise of a fundamental right, and it is essential that it continue before national representation with the respect, serenity and humility it calls for. As I said, the Government is fiercely defending the right of women, this human right simply guaranteed by our Constitution. It is our duty to strengthen it and to continuously improve its effectiveness. This commitment was strongly reaffirmed by the President of the Republic before the European Parliament on 19 January, calling for the recognition of the right to abortion in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM groups, Agir ens and LT]] As for the question raised by this text, it falls entirely within the purview of national representation. The Government will then defer to your deliberations, while creating the conditions for your work to be finally completed before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u309	Mrs Marie-Noëlle Battistel, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u310	"In the end, if the freedom to abort in France is not called into question to date, a cluster of factors [...] can contribute to the difficulty of its realization during the legal period allowed, thus leading women to be unable to carry out their personal decision, except to request a trip abroad. With these words, the CCNE has corroborated the finding that led to the tabling of this bill: there are still some difficulties in gaining access to GVI in our country, and the legislator must act to remedy them. Cécile Muschotti and I had made the same observation in the information report on access to the abortion that we had written in 2020 on behalf of the delegation to women's rights at our assembly. I would like to acknowledge the commitment of its President, Marie-Pierre Rixain, on the subject we are discussing. What are these difficulties that we have identified and which warrant legislation today? I don't have time to present them all in detail, but some of them seem to me to have to be mentioned in order to understand what brings us together and what motivates us. First of all, there are difficulties in finding the right information and a competent interlocutor on the subject of the IVG. It is not always easy to know the practitioners who agree to do so, which complicates the orientation or reorientation of women. In addition, some health care professionals, particularly when opposed to abortion, may, in a more or less conscious way, contribute to slowing down orientation, delaying care for women. Similarly, medical geography and demography can have serious consequences because the congestion of some hospitals on the one hand, and medical desertification in several regions on the other, also hinders access to abortion. These difficulties do not affect the whole of France uniformly: there are significant territorial disparities in the rate of recourse to abortion. If there is no real white area in terms of access, there are, on the other hand, areas of tension, and the delays in taking care of them thus vary from simple to quadruple depending on the regions. One last difficulty, which we have mentioned on several occasions: the health crisis. It has had a clear and detrimental impact on women's access to abortion and has reinforced the problems of exceeding deadlines. These difficulties and territorial inequalities affect the speed of care for women wishing to resort to abortion. Thus, when a woman later understands that she is pregnant, whatever the reason – denial of pregnancy, poor information due to her young age, especially if she is a minor, unequal access to care – or when she changes her mind about the continuation of her pregnancy, all the obstacles I mentioned slow down her journey and can lead to an exceedance of the 12-week threshold. And it is above all the most vulnerable women who are victims, the very young, the farthest from the care system, the women who have the least access to health information, those who do not have a means of locomotion or those who are victims of violence... It is all women who most often suffer the consequences of these difficulties and who are most likely to exceed legal deadlines. They then find themselves forced to travel abroad to assert the fundamental right of abortion. It is estimated that this is the case for at least 2,000 women each year. And, if they don't do it because it's complicated to organize and it's expensive and not reimbursed, what choice do they have? They can only continue an unwanted pregnancy or resort to clandestine abortion at the risk of their health. We cannot call this a choice. We cannot accept such situations. In France, in 2022, a woman must be able to have an abortion if she wishes. It's a right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u311	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u312	In response to these difficulties, our report proposed several changes: the extension of the time limit for recourse to abortion, the abolition of the specific awareness clause, the extension of the competence of midwives to the practice of abortion by surgery, the establishment of a register of professionals practising this act, a review of the application of the legislation on the offence of obstruction or the improvement of the information of women on their right to choose the method of abortion. With the notable and regrettable exception, Madam Minister, of the withdrawal of the deletion of the specific conscience clause, all of these recommendations are now incorporated into this bill, thus helping to strengthen the right to abortion in our country by making it fully effective. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Agir ens, LT and GDR groups]] I would like to welcome the outcome of this cross-party work, which over the past two years has enabled us to assess the current arrangements, to analyse in depth the situation on the ground and to listen to health professionals and women's rights associations. Although we must never lower our guard on such a subject, I am pleased to see that many of us are mobilizing to strengthen the right to abortion in our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u313	Mrs Albane Gaillot, rapporteur of the Committee on Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u314	Today, this bill continues its... atypical course. Co-signed by deputies from eight parliamentary groups, initially supported by the Ecology Democracy Solidarity Group, which devoted its only day of parliamentary initiative, it was then, thanks to these many supporters, successively placed on the agenda of our Assembly by the Socialist and related groups, then by the majority group, and finally by the Government. Without such mobilization, this bill would not be there; Without your will, ladies and gentlemen, to advance the right of women to dispose of their bodies, we would not be at third reading. I would therefore like to thank all the parliamentarians who have allowed this text to continue its legislative path, despite the opposition of some Members which has materialised by the massive tabling of repetitive amendments, which had no other purpose but to slow down the debate, some still considering that the right to abortion is a problem and should be restricted. These conservative movements show us that the fight begun in 1974 by Simone Veil, continued relentlessly since, is still not over. We must all remain extremely vigilant about the full effectiveness of the right to abortion. Let them know that this right is not a problem, but a solution for women! That is why I want to pay tribute today to all those who have been here and who have been involved in this bill since the beginning, who have supported it and have thus defended the values and measures of progress it promotes. In welcoming this trans-party commitment to women's rights, I also want to make a statement of hope: the principles of this text are fundamental, and we are the majority here to find ourselves around the same values, which are one of the foundations of our society. We are therefore coming to the next reading today, because we have failed to reach a common text with the Senate at the Joint Joint Committee (JC). But thanks to the trans-party work carried out in our Assembly, this text now includes seven provisions aimed at strengthening the right to abortion in order to guarantee effective access to abortion in our country for all women. Let us quickly remember what these different measures are. First, Article 1 extends the statutory time limit for abortion from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. This article is probably the heart of the bill because it is obviously crucial for better access to abortion; It should not, however, obscure the other provisions of the text. Article 1e bis also has a very important place in the scheme, extending the scope of competences of midwives to the practice of instrumental abortion. More than doctors in France, they have been able to practice GVI by drug since 2016, and their scope of competence already includes a number of intrauterine gestures. Therefore, allowing them to practice instrumental abortion will promote access to abortion and help to fill the shortage of health professionals in some territories. Thirdly, Article 1b removes the mandatory period of two days of reflection before confirming a request for abortion, a time limit imposed on women who have completed a prior psychosocial consultation. For abortion is a choice of the woman, who must have the time for reflection she needs, but it is not up to you or me to impose it on her. Article 2 provides for the creation of a directory listing, subject to their agreement, health professionals as well as all the structures involved in abortion. While I am very much in favour of this measure, I can only regret the deletion, at second reading, of the first part of this article, which removed the specific awareness clause. Other articles are also very interesting and we will detail them during the debate. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, SOC, Agir ens, FI, LT and GDR groups]] These are the very concrete subjects that bring us together today. That is the general ergonomics of this bill which we are now considering, in a new reading. These are the measures we propose to guarantee in our country the right to abortion and the right of every woman to dispose of her body.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u315	In the general debate, Mrs Sylvia Pinel spoke.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u316	We are witnessing, within the European Union and at its borders, a decline in women's rights, starting with the right to abortion. For the past year, Poles have been marching through the streets to challenge their country's new, ultra-restrictive abortion legislation, legislation that kills: in January, a woman died again in hospital, after a refusal to abortion despite medical complications; One more victim, one more victim. Such tragedies are taking place today in neighbouring countries and in the United States, where the right to abortion was for granted. These facts require constant vigilance by reminding us that women's rights everywhere can decline at any time. The President of the Republic, taking the lead in the presidency of the European Union, said he wanted to include the right to abortion in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This proposal will certainly remain a dead letter because of the unanimity required to amend the Charter, but it is nevertheless welcome. The right to abortion must already be defended in our own legislation, yet it must be guaranteed in our own country. This is the objective of this bill, which has been a difficult process. Once again, I would like to thank Albane Gaillot and Marie-Noëlle Battistel for their perseverance, and to commend the work of the delegation on women's rights, through which the original text was enriched. I note that the agenda of our Assembly should allow us to complete the examination of this text – which was not earned in advance – and I welcome it. I regret, however, the attitude of the Senate majority, which from the very beginning simply rejects the bill, even though it will not prevent us from continuing to debate and move forward, nor has the obstruction of a handful of Members of Parliament succeeded in doing so so so far. However, although I welcome the progress made, I would like to stress a regret over the drafting of the original text. I would like to point out that the latter contained two major provisions: the extension of the time limit for abortions, but also the abolition of the double awareness clause. Today, however, it appears to me that the first measure was obtained by sacrificing the second measure and that, as in 1974, it was on the same object that the compromise was achieved. However, this is a symbolic provision that would not deprive health professionals of any right, who would always be free to refuse abortion, like any other medical act. The removal of this double conscience clause is a way of saying that this act must no longer be subject to so many taboos, non-said, or even stigmatization. Until we understand that it is these taboos that are involved in misinformation, it is our entire policy on women's sexual health that will suffer! It is not a question of trivializing the act of the abortion, but of not falling into a guilty speech. I hope that our discussions will make it possible to re-establish this provision. Finally, while I welcome the extension of the abortion period and the extension of its practice to midwives, let us be careful that these provisions will be sufficient. Because it is the youngest, the most precarious, the most fragile, who suffer from unequal access to care and who thus arrive late in the journeys of abortion, sometimes out of time. Longer deadlines will not solve the structural problem of underinvestment in women's sexual health! In ten years, the number of gynaecologists has fallen by 40%, and maternity and orthogeny centres continue to be closed; the medical procedure of the IVG remains unrecognized economically, and the practitioners too poorly trained; State subsidies for family planning tend to decline in some departments. Prevention is still not enough: sexual education sessions are still far from being implemented, and sexually transmitted infections have increased by 30 per cent since 2020. Investing in this field, however, leads to the advancement of society as a whole, knowing that it is the main lever to guarantee the right to abortion, and more broadly the sexual health rights of women and men, you have recalled, Madam Minister. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, SOC, Agir ens, FI, LT and GDR groups]] As in previous readings, members of the Liberties and Territories Group will make a conscious decision. For my part, as for a majority of us, I will vote resolutely in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u317	Mr Ugo Bernalicis has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u318	For those who have never experienced an unwanted pregnancy, it is difficult to imagine the distress, guilt, fear that some women may feel. Therefore, if fear prevents talking about it or if pregnancy is discovered late, the period of one and a half months is regularly exceeded for many of our fellow citizens. If the possibility of abortion is delayed due to congestion or absent doctors, which is not uncommon nowadays, you will agree, this delay is further shortened. Thus 3000 to 5000 French women suffer the consequences of a law that prevents them from aborting, while an abortion by aspiration is still possible. It's a big deal. The cost in foreign clinics can easily reach 1000 euros, not reimbursed, of course, for those who would like to cross the border. A further burden for women who often have to bear the consequences of having sex with someone else alone, and who have sometimes happened without their consent. A further burden for those living in the most complex, violent or precarious situations, the youngest and the most isolated, the most affected by the difficulties of access to abortion. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times has this issue been discussed in this House since the beginning of the term of office? It has been so many times. How much time have many Members devoted to this issue, including Mrs Gaillot, Mrs Battistel and Mr Muschotti? How many opinions have we received on the subject? Moreover, the National Ethics Advisory Committee has once again given its green light to the extension of the legal time limit for access to voluntary termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u319	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u320	Today, each and every one of us has been able to come up with an idea on the subject. It is therefore high time that we moved forward and voted on this law. I repeat once again that the transition from 12 weeks to 14 weeks of pregnancy is perfectly consistent, since up to 14 weeks it is still possible to make an abortion by aspiration. Many women are awaiting this bill. Family Planning, which denounces the fact that thousands of women are forced to travel abroad every year, has been campaigning for this extension from twelve to fourteen weeks for a very long time. On the other hand, I deeply regret, like other colleagues, that the Senate has maintained the double conscience clause. I will not go back to the nonsense of this clause, which has already been widely demonstrated. To maintain it is to bow to a symbol of guilt, stigmatizing, without any justification in the light of the clause of conscience that already exists in the common law. Then it seems to me more than necessary to allow midwives to perform surgical IVGs. Since 2015, the World Health Organization (WHO) has advocated the autonomous intervention of midwives in instrumental abortion, in the first trimester of pregnancy. It is a request from many midwives associations, but also from the Association of Birth Control Centres of AP-HP, the Association nationale des centres d'IVG et de contraception, the Family Planning, the Syndicat de la médecine générale, the Association pour une médecine garantie et féministique, the Réseau de santé publique (RSSP) and the Réseau entre la ville et l'hospital pour l'orthogénie (REVHO) in Île-de-France, or the Réseau régional to promote the management of voluntary termination of pregnancy and contraception in the Occitanie region (REIVOC). You understand that many structures claim it. Let's look at the reality, midwives already perform maternity deliveries alone.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u321	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u322	The question does not have to be asked for abortions. On the other hand, there is an urgent need to meet the needs of the population. At a time when medical desertification is gaining a little more ground every day, we cannot give up the skills of certain medical professions. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and the Commission. – Mrs Annie Chapelier also applauds]] The essayist and specialist on the status of women Mona Cholet observed in an interview: "Conservative forces once again have a great influence on power: there are attacks on women's rights, the right to abortion, we are trying to control women's bodies more and more. This debate has a strong resonance with the times of witch hunts, since they were healing but also abortive, and that the Sabbath was considered the feast of infertility. So let us prove that we do not participate in this retrograde movement. Let us vote for this law so that this right is finally effective.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u323	Mrs Elsa Faucillon has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u324	We are now considering for the third time this text on extending the abortion period from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. Since the beginning of this debate, the political and media space has been saturated by sexist and nauseous statements. It would be a good answer if we, together, opposed such an important decision for the respect and advancement of women's rights. We saw how much the first confinement in particular, but beyond that, the long-term health crisis had compromised access to abortion for all women. There are many reasons for the significant decrease in abortions during confinement: the physical closure of a large number of reception facilities, the fear of leaving home, the profusion of false information on the subject via the "pro-life" websites that continue to blow up. Even today, despite the field work of many professionals, the IVG remains a taboo. Talkette magazine talked about it a few months ago, through portraits of women who said they had abortions themselves. Confinement has highlighted the discretion required by this medical action. Work and studies are the two reasons for women to achieve abortion in complete discretion, and the cessation of these two activities has jeopardized their project. They were then removed from the legal framework of the twelve weeks of pregnancy. The figures are alarming: the family planning number registered an 184% increase in requests for interruptions beyond 12 weeks. The demand of associations and many health professionals is simple: to extend the abortion period from 12 to 14 weeks of pregnancy. The extension of this period, let us recall, is based on the abortion technique used: at twelve or fourteen weeks, it is still possible to carry out an abortion by aspiration. Without this emergency measure, some doctors will find themselves illegal to deal with this distress. Recall that many requests for abortion after the legal deadline of 12 weeks of pregnancy concern women who are victims of violence. They are often in complex conjugal or administrative situations. Longer deadlines also help to avoid widening social inequalities between women: going to do an abortion abroad costs three to five times more for women who cannot do it in France. It is also not antithetical to extend this time limit with the fact of better accompanying upstream. Yet we must equip the structures that do this prevention, and I am of course thinking in the first place of family planning. The major risk is that women will perform their abortion alone. This return to the 1970s raises a major health issue. Women who want abortion find solutions, sometimes at the cost of their health and life. Abortion is an urgent medical intervention. The challenge to abortion is no less than the challenge to women's rights. Once again, we note that the sexual and reproductive rights of women are not considered human rights. I hope we get there very quickly. We have also asked by way of amendment to delete the specific awareness clause on abortion. Each doctor has a general conscience clause, which allows him to refuse to perform any medical act. In addition to the latter, and since the promulgation of the Veil Act, each doctor has benefited from a specific awareness clause which allows him to refuse to perform a voluntary pregnancy procedure. It was the result of a balance. After so many years, we must say that this balance is no longer necessary and that it is the result of this taboo that surrounds the IVG. We say that there is no justification for maintaining this clause today. This specific awareness clause is a breach of the principle of neutrality of public service. It is also the manifestation of the ground ceded to morals by law and, more generally, the lack of legal interest in women's rights. This bill – and I thank Marie-Noëlle Battistel, Albane Gaillot and many others – is serious and realistic. It is supported by many health professionals and support in prevention. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM Group and the Commission. – Mrs Annie Chapelier also applauds]] We will vote for this law and we hope that many of you will do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u325	Mrs Cécile Muschotti has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u326	We are entering the final straight line to finally adopt this bill, which has followed a chaotic legislative path but has nevertheless succeeded. The final reading by our assembly will take place on Wednesday, February 23, after its probable rejection by the Senate, which has twice opposed the question in advance of this text and has never considered it in public. I regret that, but that is how it is: the conservatism of the upper chamber on this subject is no longer to be demonstrated, and it is large enough to refuse parliamentary debate. We therefore find ourselves re-examination of the text we adopted in this House at second reading. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (La République en marche), I would like to say that it is a matter of respecting the balance found on 30 November, a balance which was confirmed in committee on Wednesday, 2 February. Our committee, in addition to a few editorial amendments, has only introduced, on my initiative and that of the members of my group, a provision in Article 1a, which provides that, when an IVG is carried out in a public or private health facility, consultations may, where appropriate, be carried out at a distance. I share with the rapporteurs, Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Albane Gaillot, whom I would like to warmly thank for their stubbornness, the same fight for the strengthening and widening of the right to abortion in our country, which has been instructed to examine our social reality. That has been said, every year thousands of women are forced to go abroad to abort. The extension of the period from 12 to 14 weeks is a key measure in this text, which aims to better guarantee the care of women at a stage of their pregnancy which is still early and does not pose an ethical problem. We have already discussed this issue, there is no need to go back to it. The successive readings of the bill in the National Assembly have enriched its content: extensive information obligations; Extension of midwives' competence to perform surgical abortions – which will have to be performed in a health facility; the continued extension of the time limit for the use of IVG medicinal products; removal of the two-day reflection period imposed on women who have previously consulted before they can confirm their request for abortion; publication by the regional health agencies of a free-access directory listing, subject to their agreement, the professionals and structures practising IVG; clarification of the obligation of professionals to issue an emergency contraceptive; evaluation of the implementation of the crime of obstruction of the abortion. Finally, it should be noted that the practice of the third party paying for acts in connection with IVG and the protection of secrecy is provided for by the Social Security Financing Act for 2021. These enrichments have been introduced at the initiative of several parliamentary groups, an illustration of the transparency of this text, which, like most legislative texts, is the result of a political compromise. We must safeguard this political compromise and thus take on our responsibilities, as the Government has taken on its own in wishing to see this text come to fruition. We can collectively congratulate ourselves on our pugnacity and we must be grateful to the Government for having endorsed the desire expressed on two occasions by national representation to see the extension and protection of the fundamental right to abortion. The President of the Republic, who wished to include the right to abortion in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, expressed his will on 19 January last, as he inaugurated the French Presidency of the European Union in Strasbourg. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on the panels of the commissions. – Mrs Annie Chapelier and Pascale Fontenel-Person also applaud]] This political compromise implies that the first four paragraphs of Article 2 should not be re-established and that the specific awareness clause of the IVG should therefore be maintained. Which can do the most, can do the least. This can be regretted, but it is especially gratifying that, thanks to this legislation, which will soon be the law of the Republic, the right to abortion is progressing while providing sufficient guarantees to patients and health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not weaken the building built patiently since August 2020 and the tabling of the text. Let's adopt it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u327	Mrs Geneviève Levy has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u328	We have met for the third time in this House to discuss this text. We are all committed to defending the rights of women, and in particular this right that has become inalienable for every woman to freely dispose of her body. I would like to stress: there is no question for us to reconsider this right; I'd like to make it very clear.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u329	Maybe that's the case with you, but...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u330	It is precisely because it is our duty to guarantee all women the means to have this right, that I now take this position: the extension of the period of voluntary termination of pregnancy is not the solution. We also agree on the mechanisms that are lacking and that need to be put in place. Madam Deputy Minister, thank you for reminding you of the work that has already been done. I am thinking in particular of sexuality education. Why not pay more attention to this, when you know that one in four schools does not offer sexuality education courses, and that more than one in two schools do not comply with the three mandatory annual sessions? However, these courses are essential...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u331	Yes, Mrs. Levy.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u332	... so that children – boys and girls – are made aware of prevention, learning and listening to their bodies. This will greatly contribute to limiting the number of GVIs. I am also thinking of access to territorial structures, as has been pointed out. The law of modernization of our health system authorized in 2016 the practice of instrumental IVG outside health facilities; It was an important step forward. Health centres and family planning and education centres (CPEFs) can now accommodate the practice of abortions. But what have we seen since 2016? Very few municipalities have invested in the development of halls equipped for the practice of abortions. This is yet another concrete example of the difficulty of accessing the GVI that should challenge us. Why don't the municipalities take over this mission? Is this a problem of financial means, human resources, lack of knowledge of the system? What is the leverage to ensure that territories participate in equal access for women to abortion? You preferred to focus and communicate loud and clear on adding two weeks to the legal deadline, as if it were the answer to all these real evils. Are women being helped by this reform when, year after year, the number of health institutions practising abortion is reduced, creating, in our countryside, real medical deserts? In 20 years, 50% of maternity hospitals have closed, but effective access to abortion still depends mainly on the hospital card – hospitals practice almost 80% of abortions. When you know that, you can only be worried about what the reality of the ground is. Today, forty departments are experiencing a shortage of gynaecologists and thirteen no longer have a single medical gynaecologist. In practice, in 2022, women had to go to another department to go to the gynecologist; Is this normal in 21st century France? Finally, are these two additional weeks the solution to prevent 2000 French women from going abroad every year to abort? Again, I do not think the answer is appropriate. For 70 per cent of these women, the cause of a late abortion, outside the legal deadline, is the ignorance in which they were pregnant, simply linked to the fact that they know poorly or do not listen to their bodies. The median management of these women by foreign structures is 18 weeks of pregnancy, and the first contact three weeks before, around 15 weeks of pregnancy. For them, the two-week extension of the legal deadline to 14 weeks will unfortunately not change anything. [[Mrs Nathalie Bassire and Valérie Six applaud]] In this House, there is not, on the one hand, those who serve the emancipation of women and, on the other, those who limit their rights. An IVG is a significant event for a woman, she will score one in three French in her life. However, I very sincerely believe that this text will not make it possible to change the situation. You turn away from the real obstacles to free access to abortion by choosing ease and thus abandoning women to their loneliness. In a few months, it will be up to a new majority to bring lasting solutions to allow all women to freely dispose of their bodies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u333	Mrs Pascale Fontenel-Person has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u334	After almost a year and a half of intense and intense debate, this bill comes back to our house for a new reading, following its rejection without consideration in the Senate and the failure of the Joint Joint Committee. The debate on abortion in this House is not annoyed; This imposes a certain form of height of sight but also, and above all, of responsibility: responsibility for this right acquired from high struggle, almost fifty years ago; responsibility for the thousands of women – almost two hundred thousand – who use it every year in our country. If this right is now firmly anchored in France, despite some conservative surprises, we see that it is weakened in many countries, in the European Union itself, or in some American states. That is why we must seize every opportunity to affirm, protect and even strengthen this right. That is what is proposed in the text. The flagship measure is to extend the legal time limit for access to abortion by two weeks, from 12 to 14 weeks. The aim of this extension is to address a well-identified problem: every year between 3000 and 5000 women are forced to go abroad for abortion, as they have exceeded the deadline; We can't accept it. While this prolongation could give rise to some questions at the beginning of the legislative process of the text, it appears that no ethical or scientific objection can be objected to. This statement does not come out of nowhere, but emanates from the CCNE, which I believe must refer to in this debate. Let us also congratulate ourselves on having independent bodies of this nature to inform political decision-making, when other countries refer to anything other than science on these issues. However, longer access times to abortion cannot be the alpha and omega of our sexual and reproductive health policy. This must be supported by two essential pillars: access to information everywhere and for all, and access to health professionals. These two pillars are now weakened for reasons based essentially on territorial health inequalities: access to clear and legible information on legislation or getting an appointment quickly from ad hoc structures can be extremely difficult for some of our compatriots. It is therefore imperative to consolidate the dissemination of information and its accessibility, as well as the whole of our policy on prevention of unwanted pregnancies, from an early age. In addition, the second pillar – the possibility of access to appropriate healthcare professionals – suffers from the consequences of medical desertification. This is an issue that has been the subject of much debate in this House, and many of the solutions have been proposed. Our group had taken up this issue as early as the Social Security Financing Act for 2021 by adopting an experiment allowing midwives to practice instrumental IVGs. This bill consolidates and endorses this initiative, which we believe is timely in more than one way: it reinforces the major advances made in recent months by the profession, and strengthens the provision of care in the territories. The bill therefore addresses all of these questions, trying to provide answers, as close as possible to the reality of the field. Of course, the provisions contained in the text are not consensual – we have seen this during these eighteen months of debate. These political and societal oppositions must be heard to the extent that they remain respectful and reasoned. Nevertheless, the legislator must ultimately decide. It must do so by weighing every word and every argument, more than on any other subject; This is a democratic imperative. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Mrs Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, also applauds]] The discussion that is going on will be mixed, it is obvious that we will not reach a consensus on all the benches. Within the groups themselves, positions will diverge. This is the case in the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and related democrats, which, according to its conscience, will give each of its members full freedom to vote.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u335	Mrs Michèle Victory has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u336	I am very proud, on behalf of the Socialist and Related Group, to support a text that touches on a fundamental right of women: the right to have choice. Almost half a century after the adoption of the Veil law, this very dearly acquired right remains of great fragility. Its full effectiveness is still not guaranteed throughout French territory – the heated debates on this text in our parliamentary assemblies for many months confirm this. Recent historical setbacks around the world, such as in Poland or Texas, show that we must still and always defend the right to abortion because, when we defend women's rights, it is our vision of society that is being discussed. When regimes that do not respect freedoms attack women's free choice to dispose of their bodies and the right to claim their integrity, many fundamental principles are called into question. Every year, 3000 to 5000 French women are still forced to go abroad to practice IVG. They are obliged to do so, on the one hand, because of the insufficient number of health professionals or adapted services in many territories and, on the other hand, because of the legal time limit for recourse to abortion, which is much shorter for us than for our neighbours. In my home in Ardèche, 40% of women who use abortions have to change departments, reflecting the shortage of practitioners, a phenomenon that is particularly true in rural areas. How can we accept that women, sometimes in distress or who simply want to make another choice, are under an obligation to commit large sums of money for an interruption of pregnancy outside the national territory? Shouldn't the role of our State be to protect citizens and empower them to take on their choices? All the more so as we know: the difficulties of access to abortion mainly affect the most fragile – young girls under age, isolated women in rural areas, women who are pregnant as a result of rape or who have little resources. In the course of the discussions, some said that it was essential to avoid pressure on women to take decisions. Let us not forget that the pressures can be made in both directions: to practice an IVG, but also to keep the child, even when the necessary conditions are not met. That is why we must accompany women, but never speak for them. Admittedly, improving access to abortion is not limited to the measures contained in the bill we are considering today – structural responses in the management and organisation of our orthogen care offers remain necessary, as our colleague Sylvie Pinel has pointed out very well. However, this text makes it possible to move forward on major issues, by extending the legal time limit for recourse to abortion by two weeks, by increasing the number of practitioners through the empowerment of midwives, by strengthening the training of women and by removing the two-day time limit for reflection. Thus, for all these women, a hope was born now almost a year and a half ago, with the adoption at first reading of this bill carried by Albane Gaillot, then by Marie-Noëlle Battistel and Cécile Muschotti. I salute their work and their tenacity because, since then, the text has been sown with obstacles: obstruction of the conservative right in the assembly, systematic rejection of the text by the Senate, ambiguous position of the majority, which took ten months before entering the text...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u337	If the text is on the agenda, it is that the position is not ambiguous.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u338	... and which allowed the removal of a major advance concerning the double consciousness clause. The examination of the text showed that the majority had a chill on the subject, particularly on the question of the double conscience clause, whereas this clause did not in fact provide any additional protection to health professionals in relation to the general conscience clause which they already enjoyed and which allowed them to refuse to perform an act contrary to their moral position. It only supports the stigmatization of abortion as an act of guilt for women. The IVG is thus the only medical act for which this double clause would be proposed, which would make it a tolerated act rather than a right in its own right. In committee, the name of Simone Veil has often been given to justify this position, in our view retrograde. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone here understands that the context in which the law was passed in 1975 is, fortunately, quite different from that of today. I do not think it is right to bring our current debates back to what was the fierce and courageous battle of a woman whom we admire, here and beyond the Chamber, in a society which is still corset and deaf to women's rights. The IGAS – Inspectorate-General of Social Affairs – stressed this: the practice of abortion remains highly dependent on personal and local equations, often hindering women's free decision-making. It is a matter of making effective a right that is difficult to acquire. We therefore call on the majority to remove the barrier to abortion represented by the double conscience clause and to defend an amendment to that effect. However, the essential step has been taken and, while taboos on issues related to women's rights and their sexuality are still present in our society, it is better late than never: it is time for us, ladies and gentlemen, to realize the progress of women's rights. [[Applause on the panels of the committees and the Action ens groups]] Let us recall that this text is the result of two opposition groups but above all of a trans-party work carried out within the framework of the delegation to women's rights and equal opportunities between men and women, towards which we are very confident. It is therefore with pride and conviction that the Socialist and related group will vote for the text.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u339	Further discussion was postponed until the next sitting.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-10-O1154.u340	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Following the discussion, on a new reading, of the bill to strengthen the right to abortion. The meeting is adjourned.
