ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u1	The next item is the statement by the Government on developments in the health situation, followed by a debate, pursuant to article 50 (1) of the Constitution. I welcome and thank the Minister of Solidarity and Health for being here this morning to raise this important issue in a particular context that no one is unaware of: current events are now dominated by the situation in Ukraine. That is why, following the Minister's intervention, I will give each group the opportunity to speak on this subject for two minutes. The Minister for Solidarity and Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u2	I thank you, Mr President, for this initiative which will allow parliamentarians who so wish to speak on the situation in Ukraine, which is of concern to us all and which makes the organisation of this yet fundamental debate on the development of the somewhat outmoded health crisis. I will recall the words of the President of the Republic, who strongly condemned Russia's decision to attack Ukraine and reaffirmed our unwavering solidarity with the Ukrainian people. At a time when the images and noise of missiles in the Ukrainian sky are being heard and felt, the President of the Republic decided to convene this morning a national defence and security council, after meeting with the President of Ukraine in the early hours of the day. However, parliamentary work must continue and I am before you today so that we can come back together on the evolution of a health crisis that has been mobilising us all over the last two years. During these two years, we have fought a virus that has, to date, caused the death of 137,000 of our fellow citizens. It is to them that I think above all, of those broke lives, as well as their loved ones, who are in mourning and grief. I am also thinking of our caregivers, the white hussars of the Republic who, from the moment of the threat, were fully mobilized, being on the bridge day and night. I am also thinking of all the public officials who have also been mobilised throughout this period and who have not counted their hours in the service of the general interest, whether in the departments of ministries, in hospitals, in regional health agencies (ARS), in health insurance, or in territorial services. We must pay tribute to them, because the continuity of the life of our nation and of the public services during this crisis owes them a great deal. As Minister of Solidarity and Health, I have been able, at every moment, to count on men and women of great value, who have chosen to devote their lives to protecting, accompanying and saving the lives of others. I am also thinking of our youth, children, adolescents, students, who have shown admirable courage. This generation, which some said was nonchalant and indifferent, showed solidarity, resilient and capable of sacrifices that neither you nor I had known at their age. I am pleased to be able to speak again in Parliament on behalf of the Government, not to draw the curtain or to testify a posteriori, but to prolong an exercise that has been permanent at every stage of the health crisis, because Parliament has also been on the bridge. This debate is in line with a commitment that the Government made to you last November: it was indeed essential to discuss the health situation on this final day of work in a public meeting. Where are we on this 24th February 2022? After facing a fifth epidemic wave of a completely new scale, caused by the very high-level circulation of delta and omicron variants, we observe a very sharp epidemic decline, as well as an improvement in the indicators of our hospital system. In recent months, thanks to a massive vaccination campaign, thanks to the sanitary pass and the vaccination pass, thanks to adapted and proportionate braking measures, the effects of the fifth epidemic wave on our health system have been contained, without us having to make more drastic and restrictive decisions – let us recall what has happened in some of our European neighbours. This responsive and balanced response to the changing health situation, you have made it possible thanks to the tools you have adopted, improved and enriched through the parliamentary discussions we have had over the past two years. Thanks to this work, we have been able to proceed calmly, for several weeks, with the gradual lifting of braking measures, while maintaining a high level of protection against the effects of the virus. We passed important milestones on 2 and 16 February by relaxing the rules applicable in cultural and sports establishments as well as the use of telework, or by making it possible again to access discotheques. As you know, in view of the improvement in the health situation, we have also announced an evolution of the health protocol for the whole population from 28 February next year in terms of the doctrine of screening, but also the wearing of the mask in places where the vaccination pass applies. Finally, we indicated that if this positive trajectory were to be confirmed, particularly with regard to hospital tensions and the circulation of the virus, we could consider lifting the vaccine pass by mid-March in all or some of the places where it applies, as well as the end of wearing the mask in closed places. It is therefore with vigilance but also optimism that we can envisage the evolution of the situation in the coming weeks and the return to a life that I would call normal. Of course, I hear the polemics, which have sparked every stage of crisis management for the past two years. I am now told that, basically, it has nothing to do with the virus if we lift the last restrictions in mid-March: it would be because the French are about to vote. In this case, ladies and gentlemen, let us imagine a completely different situation. Let us imagine that the number of contaminations is twice as high each week, that the resuscitations are gradually emptying, that the hospital services are regaining normal functioning without any further deprogramming; In short, imagine a situation that we have already experienced four times in our country, namely the end of an epidemic wave and the return to a form of normality. What would we hear then if we told you that despite the improvement in the situation we were going to maintain the wearing of the mask and the vaccination pass? You would tell us that we keep the French under stress and pressure because they are about to vote, that we want to scare them. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] We have never escaped controversy, and we will never escape it. What can be done in such a situation? Advance, with only compasses the general interest and the scientific, health and social reason. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also heard regularly from some of our opponents that the rule of law would have been jeopardized by the health crisis. In truth, nothing is more wrong. Indeed, the protection measures taken by the Government since March 2020 are part of a rigorous regime established by Parliament. I believe that Yaël Braun-Pivet, chairman of the Committee on Laws, and Fadila Khattabi, chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, will not say the opposite, since I have been – unless I am mistaken – the minister most present in the Committee on Laws when I do not have a Regalian portfolio but that of health, which attests to the wealth of parliamentary work. In this regard, I would like to point out that the rationale behind the state of emergency regime, established by the Act of 23 March 2020, was to establish a precise framework for the succession of the emergency of the first days of crisis management, which had required measures based on old case law, but whose contours were too uncertain to provide a clear and predictable framework over time. The epidemic management regimes are the result of hundreds of hours of committee and public debate, and the discussion of several thousand amendments to the National Assembly and Senate. In this regard, I would like to commend the work of all Members, who have contributed constructively and often in difficult circumstances and even in urgent circumstances. These successive laws have established a rigorous, continuously improved and clarified framework to enable the Government to take measures that strike a balance between the objective of protecting the health of the French and the preservation of other constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms. Every two to four months, Parliament has thus had to examine and redefine the conditions for our action. This work continued in January, with consideration of the twelfth bill introduced to adapt the response to the health situation. Regularly seized of the texts adopted by Parliament, the Constitutional Council has consistently validated the broad guidelines of the various laws and has largely confirmed the constitutionality of the proposed measures, proof that the legislator had fully exercised his office, ensuring the difficult but just reconciliation of the various fundamental principles which should guide the action of the public authorities at all times. As for the measures taken by the Government on the basis of these regimes, they have always complied with the requirements of proportionality and necessity. They were, moreover, easily and quickly challenged before the administrative judge. In this respect, the number of proceedings before the administrative judge gives rise to the vertigo, with hundreds of injunctions and appeals brought before the courts, until the Council of State, since the beginning of 2020. The judge has widely validated the legality of the measures taken by the Government and when he has been forced to suspend certain decisions, the Government has complied with them without delay, adjusting the applicable regulations in order to find a more satisfactory balance in law. Finally, the dozens of hearings devoted to the health crisis and its consequences by the committees and delegations of the two assemblies, the numerous reports adopted since the start of the epidemic, and the hundreds of oral and written questions put on this subject show that Parliament's monitoring and evaluation functions have taken on their full meaning. All this shows that the rule of law has never been suspended or affected since the beginning of the health crisis and that all of our institutions have exercised their respective prerogatives in a full and complete manner, starting with Parliament. This is to be welcomed, because the material conditions of parliamentary work have been demanding and often challenging. Each institution has had to adapt, without sacrificing its duties or missions, and we can collectively be proud of the strength of our democratic institutions, even at the heart of the storm. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past two years, we have acted and learned. We have acted to protect the French, no matter what the cost and whatever the circumstances, despite the weariness and the contrary winds. I repeat, our only compass was the health of the French. It is not decided to close schools, restaurants and museums by fantasy; one does not decide to confine a whole country to give oneself dizziness; We do it because it's a vital issue, we do it because our most fundamental values force us to do it. There has been much talk of freedom in recent weeks and in recent months, there has been much talk of great principles, often wavered with the fervour and verve that abstraction allows. For my part, I still have very concrete images in mind. When emergency medical evacuations are organized by air or rail, from one region to another, to save lives, they are convoys of solidarity, they are convoys of a nation that is in bloc and who knows that individual freedom has meaning only in the group's mutual aid and strength. Yes, the social state replied present and that was the whole meaning of "whatever it costs". Yes, the social state has been robust and ambitious. Every day we have shown our attachment to the visible hand of solidarity, equality and fraternity, and our will to make these values something other than vague and ill-defined intentions. We have made them concrete demands and social security has proved, if necessary, that it is a precious asset, capable of accompanying everyone in torment, in doubt and even in fear. To find today, in a society where divisions are sometimes deep, values that put about everyone's agreement, is proof that social security is a pillar of our republican pact. When everything seems fragile and uncertain, social protection is a solid benchmark, and in recent months we have been reminded of it. It was a formidable and decisive weapon in our fierce fight against the epidemic. Remember the influx in pharmacies, again at the beginning of this year, to get tested and vaccinated, without paying a single penny. Several million tests have been carried out every week to allow the French to protect themselves and their loved ones. Similarly, part-time unemployment has saved millions of jobs, and replacement incomes have been able to cope with an unprecedented slowdown in activity. Neither shops nor restaurants have closed, and jobs have not disappeared; the workers did not find themselves on the tile and contrary to what some feared, predicted or claimed, poverty did not explode in our country. That is the wealth of our social protection. The vaccination campaign was a huge challenge and a real tour de force. I would like to commend the unprecedented mobilization of all stakeholders in all territories, including health facilities, actors in immunization centres, local elected officials, community officials and liberal professionals in the city. I would also like to greet those who led this historic logistical test. Let us not have the short memory and remember the choice that was made to protect first the most fragile and to move gradually towards the general population. It was the right choice. Let us also remember the fears that we were not able to have enough vaccines. Let us remember the Cassandres, who sometimes predicted a failure, sometimes a fiasco. In other words, let us remember that many trains arrived on time during this health crisis. The vaccine is the most effective protection against the risk of developing a serious form of the disease, and more than 54 million of our citizens have received at least one dose since, decisively, "impossible is not French". I was just saying, we learned. The pandemic obviously questioned the strength of our health care system, the recognition of caregivers, and our collective capacity to anticipate and respond to major crises. Our health care system has been tested and energized as never before, but it has held. The hospital and the city medicine have worked hand in hand, the public and the private have spoken, solutions have been found within very limited deadlines and, in all the territories, unprecedented collaborations have been built to deal with the unthinkable. [[Mr. Philippe Vigier acquiesce]] Giant steps have been taken in many areas, including healthy digital. From 10,000 teleconsultations a week, we have increased to over 1 million. This attraction for telemedicine remained, until it became a common practice, registered in the daily lives of French and healthcare professionals; Thus, January 2022 is the month in which the number of telemedicine acts was the highest in the history of our country, after that of April 2020. With "My Health Space", we have just created a new public service, which will allow every Frenchman to better manage his health. Citizens will be able to store, recover and share their health data useful for better care. I invite them, and I invite you, to seize this tool, which will become a reflex tomorrow, as the vital card has become. These two years of health crisis have also been marked by an important moment for our health system thanks to fifty days of intense consultation: I will of course return to the Segur of Health in the summer of 2020. The Government's commitment is major and unprecedented, with almost 30 billion euros to raise the salaries of those who care, to reinvest in the health system, to modernize and transform the functioning of hospitals and EHPADs, and to enhance territorial collaborations between actors. Nearly 10 billion euros have been spent on upgrading the remuneration of those who care – this is the box at the bottom right of the payroll. Nearly 20 billion euros will go to debt relief and investment: all your constituencies will benefit from this programme for the debt relief of hospitals and EHPADs, which concerns 3000 establishments, or five or six on average per district: this is what changes the situation in practice. Raising wages is a collective pride. We have continued this work over the months with several successive extensions, the last stage of which was announced last Friday by the Prime Minister: 1.3 billion euros of additional resources – excuse mercilessly, this figure would have given rise to vertigo a few years ago or under a previous legislature – to increase the remuneration of the essential employees of the medico-social and social sector, who take care of us daily when we need them. This wage increase will be 180 euros per month for these employees, women for most of them, who have been waiting for this for years. Another major feature of the Ségur de la santé, we chose to support small institutions and those away from large urban centres, where the major plans for salary and investment increases usually only affected the CHU – university hospital centres – and the very large regional hospitals: 75% of Ségur's investments concern small and medium-sized establishments. It is this level of proximity that we reinvest, in order to revitalize the territories, stabilize health professionals and attract new ones. Our ability to anticipate and respond to future crises remains. I may give you the feeling, from the beginning of my speech, of talking about the crisis in the past, but, as you know, nobody, any scientist on the planet, can tell you the eye in the eye, without taking a monumental risk of being wrong, that the crisis is over or that it is on the contrary bound to continue. We don't know; We simply know, because we paid for it on a planet-wide basis, that a variant can germinate at any time in a country in the southern hemisphere or in the northern hemisphere, which, from a known viral strain – delta, omicron, alpha, what do I know? – could cause a new epidemic wave. But this is not mandatory, there is a time when the virus will no longer be talking about it. Perhaps the virus will be seasonal – what is called, in jargon, the garage lanes of seasonal coronaviruses – it may disappear. In any case, we must not disarm; We must keep the entire state apparatus mobilized to deal with any situation and eventuality. This approach is not only French, it is also global and European. Within the framework of the French Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we met fifteen days ago, in Lyon and then in Grenoble, the 27 health ministers. We have addressed this issue, and all of my colleagues are in the same state of mind as we are: they are reassured about the wave of the omicron variant – even if the peak was only reached a few days ago in some countries – but each of us has affirmed his will to maintain the utmost vigilance and to refuse to release the pressure on the virus too soon. The game is not yet won, but we have reason to hope that the situation will be better in the coming weeks and months. Ladies and gentlemen, with this intervention, I am not pulling the curtain on the epidemic, and for the sake of the disease, it is not over and it is not behind us; The time has not yet come to entrust the analysis to historians. If the figures are reassuring and the fifth wave seems unquestionably to fall back, we must remain vigilant and not lift our arms too early before the finish line. We are slowly but surely entering a phase of transition that can be described, for those to whom these words speak, as "endemo-epidemic". We are optimistic and confident, but no one can know for sure what the next few months are up to. Our "test, alert, protect" strategy will therefore not lapse, and if certain protective measures are relaxed, we will nevertheless remain collectively careful and attentive to the gestures and reflexes that have allowed us and which still prevent too active circulation of the virus. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Speaking of the trains that arrived on time, speaking of what worked, I wanted here to do justice to all those who did not only comment but also actively contributed to resolving this crisis. In hospitals, schools, towns and villages in our country, everywhere and obviously on these benches, I know that good will has never failed. It is the trials which make the greatness of a nation, which reveal its flaws but also its forces and which require each one to choose between responsibility and inconsequence, solidarity and division, action and abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, together we have been responsible; Together, we were united; together, we acted. From this, we can collectively be proud.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, as I indicated to you at the beginning of our work and because the current situation has its full place in this House, the thought we have for the Ukrainian people leads us to express our solidarity with it. I shall therefore give the floor to one representative from each group for two minutes, one point of order. As usual, the order of intervention will follow the size of the groups. Mr Christophe Castaner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for this initiative, which gives us the opportunity to affirm our full solidarity with the Ukrainian people. President Vladimir Putin has taken one or several serious decisions for Ukraine, for Europe and for the institutional balance of the world. It violates international law, and it is important that we declare it in the strongest possible terms here, in the heart of the democracy of the National Assembly. The President of the Republic spoke this morning to President Volodymyr Zelensky, who described the situation and called for multiple interventions to support Ukraine. The President of the Republic also exchanged this morning with President Charles Michel. France's message is clear: we strongly condemn Russia and express our full solidarity with Ukraine and our concern for the people. As the President of the Republic has said, France demands the end of operations. We immediately engage in dialogue at the best level with our European partners and allies. Meetings of the G7, the European Council and NATO are scheduled for the day. This intervention not only threatens the Ukrainian people, it reveals an attempt at hegemonism and contempt for international law on the part of some, who, in the name of a military power, might decide to regulate the world. It is in the name of respect that we owe to the Ukrainian people and to everyone that we defend international law, which distinguishes the rule of law from barbarism. That is what we are talking about, hence our extremely firm condemnation. [[Applause on all benches]] Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I would like to thank you once again for your initiative.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u5	Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u6	I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for this initiative, which at this serious time offers us an opportunity to express our views. In the unity of all groups – we know how to confront each other when it is necessary in situations as special as this one, this is the honour of France – the Republican Group wishes to express its solidarity with the Ukrainian leaders and people. This people is sovereign, we must remind them. France has special obligations: it is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and, as such, has the right to veto its decisions. The President of the Republic is currently holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union: this Presidency gives him special rights and duties. Yes, the war broke out in Europe! The war broke out in Europe! President Putin has decided to invade a friendly country – the term invasion is not too strong. The international response, that of the rule of law, must live up not to threats but to real facts. We are dealing with a political leader, a president, who believes that eternal Russia must consolidate its empire. We're here. It's a different software and approach than the Western ones we are. So let us remember, before it is too late and without engaging in risky comparisons – for history does not necessarily stutter – that our weaknesses today can be our faults of tomorrow. It is therefore essential that the international community mobilize and that France be at the forefront of this mobilization. Finally, I would like to ask you, Minister for Solidarity and Health, to convey to the Prime Minister the wish of national representation that a debate be held very soon here.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u7	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u8	[[Applause on the benches of the LR group as well as on some benches of the groups LaREM, Dem, SOC, Agir ens and FI]] Parliament must be involved in decisions. It's not a question of polemics, it's a question of a common front.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u9	Mr Frédéric Petit has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u10	You must understand my emotion, I who live in the regions concerned. Last night, I received a few calls from my daughter – I like to say that she is a bi-citizen, rather than a bi-national. I have been in contact with the French school in Odessa, as with some parliamentarians, of course. I am also speaking as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and draftsman of the budget opinion for the Cultural Diplomacy and Influence programme. Sometimes it takes the form of a cultural war. On Monday, President Putin gave a blurred order that allows, in Russian law, the de facto crossing of the front. But pretending to maintain peace in a territory divided by a front line that is the subject of an international treaty means to invade. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir groups as well as on several benches of the LR and IUD-I groups]] Above all, his speech is a declaration of cultural war. It is anti-Europe, it is a return to the Middle Ages, to the Stalinist era. "We are all Russian; this land is Russian; So I am the boss of it": such a speech announces the opposite of Europe, where we speak twenty-four languages, where we agree to disagree and work together, even when we are hereditary enemies.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u12	Our reaction is therefore entirely legitimate and I welcome once again, on behalf of the Group of the European Democratic Movement (MODEM) and its related democrats, the action of the President of the Republic. No, this is not an extraterritorial United States peacekeeping operation. The European speech on the humane treatment of conflicts – because it exists – is important for the world and we cannot let it say: "You are Russian so I am your leader. It doesn't work like that. Mr Putin, I am thinking of all the inhabitants of these territories, whether they are on your side or on our side, whether they believe that the solution will come from Russia or Europe. In two years, they will live in a totalitarian regime. When one begins to define the rights of each person according to what it is...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u13	Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u14	[[Applause on the benches of the groups LaREM, LR, Dem, Agir ens, IDU-I and LT. – Mrs Danièle Obono also applauds]] ...and not what he does, what he deserves, it's no longer Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u15	Bravo!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u16	Mrs Valérie Rabault has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u17	Thank you, Mr President, for taking the initiative to allow these interventions. All members of the Socialist and Related Group associate themselves with the unanimous condemnation of the attacks – if not the invasion – carried out last night by President Putin in Ukraine. For my generation, which, like many others, has never experienced war on European soil, we have entered a very dangerous phase. The war is at the gates of Europe.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u18	Not just at the doors! The war is already in Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u19	These acts therefore call for our strongest condemnation. Having said that, I will make some proposals for immediate implementation. As Mr Castaner pointed out, the European Council must meet today; It has to be held in Kiev. We must show that Europe gives its most determined support to all Ukrainians. On the other hand, we must launch an offensive approach, by insulating the Russian banking system. We have the opportunity to do so; such action can be triggered immediately. Finally, the question arises: should we deliver weapons to Ukraine? At this stage, France has not done so, unlike other countries, such as the United Kingdom, which is no longer, I would point out, a member of the European Union. In any case, the European Union must show its absolute determination, in support of Ukraine. I come to the democratic debate. The meeting of a Liaison Committee on Ukraine was announced tomorrow by the Prime Minister; It must take place today. Mr Veran, I ask you to relay my request, because we must not wait until tomorrow. In addition, a debate under Article 50(1) of the Constitution must be held in this Chamber. We are talking about war at the gates of Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u20	The war is already in Europe!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u21	[[Applause on the SOC benches as well as on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] Of course. The war is on the European continent and at the gates of the European Union, to express myself accurately. We need to react quickly; I call for a European summit to be held in Kiev today.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u22	Mr Olivier Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u23	The Group of the European People's Party joins, of course, the extremely firm condemnation by the President of the Republic of Ukraine of the invasion of Ukraine led by Vladimir Putin and his regime. The situation is serious for Ukraine – of course our thoughts go to the Ukrainian people – but not only. It is also true for the whole world. Indeed, if we start here and there to redraw borders for historical reasons, it is not only the security of Ukraine or part of Europe that is at stake, but that of the whole world. We must draw red lines very quickly, the crossing of which would lead to going beyond mere economic sanctions and would involve the safety of each and every one of them. Churchill was given the following sentence in the 1930s: "The government had a choice between war and dishonour; He chose dishonor and he'll have war. » I am a member of another parliamentary assembly, that of the Council of Europe – I welcome the President of the French delegation to the Council of Europe, Nicole Trisse – where Russia and Ukraine are also represented. I cannot help but think that in recent decades we have sinned against the Russian people, but perhaps also against the Turkish people, who have not been treated as they should have been. Russia was treated as the vanquished of the Cold War; Turkey has been at the gates of the European Union for more than 60 years. Of course, these peoples who have a great history seek to heal part of their humiliation through imperialist policies, which we pay the price for. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens and IDU-I groups as well as on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] To come, like Antoine Herth of Alsace, a region that has experienced three conflicts between France and Germany, I know that these were solved by the European construction and the path of the founding fathers. Even if we must be very firm in this war, we must already prepare the paths to peace, those that will allow us to live together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u24	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u25	The Freedom and Territory Group condemns as strongly as possible Russia's aggression against Ukraine, a friendly country, a living democracy whose people aspire only to live in peace. I have a very special thought for Ukrainians this morning. Russia is committing a serious fault, which will leave an indelible trace in the history of our continent and will permanently taint relations between it and France and Europe. This act will require an extremely firm response from the European Union and France, which we will support. We mustn't cross arms. If we do not react with vigour by defending Ukraine by all means at our disposal, soon, the former Eastern countries that joined the European Union after freeing themselves from the yoke of the former USSR will in turn be threatened. Finally, I ask that all political forces in our country be regularly informed of the decisions taken and associated with them, in particular through their parliamentary group in the National Assembly and the Senate. I, in turn, call for a debate here. This morning, Russia not only hit a country; It had attacked the main principles of international law, the right of peoples to self-determination, the foundations of what had always led to democracy, freedoms and human rights. We must live up to these challenges. Europe is a global economic giant that has the means to bring Russia to its knees, if necessary. Let us not tremble in the face of the decisions we must make, while history is being written again on our continent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u26	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u27	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing each parliamentary group to express its solidarity with the Ukrainian people. We collectively have a thought for the civilian populations who fear for their lives, who are thrown on the path of exodus, who fear that the bombings are approaching their homes, what they have dearest. President Putin took an extremely serious decision, causing the war to return to European territory, at the gates of the European Union, following an imperialist, expansionist logic. We have already experienced this during the Second World War and then. At times, the cold war almost led to a new, total world war that would have bloody Europe and the world. Thank God it could have been avoided. Every effort must be made to ensure that the worst doesn't happen. We see him coming, we fear him; We haven't been able to stop it so far. Europe must speak and act with one voice, in order to maintain its credibility at the international level and to defend the sovereignty of States at its borders. [[Applause on the benches of the UDI-I, LR, Agir ens and LT groups as well as on a few benches of the Dem group]] Vladimir Putin's disregard for international law cannot remain unanswered, without sanction. The IDU and independent group will support the initiatives of the President of the Republic and ask, along with others, that the Prime Minister speak without delay before the national representation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u28	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u29	Thank you, Mr President, for leaving us these few minutes, at a time when the history of the old continent is changing. The Group of the European People's Party strongly condemns Russia's aggression against Ukraine. This is a return to brutal power relations, denying all the principles of international law, including that of the inviolability of borders. We cannot accept it. Our thoughts, our compassion, go first to the Ukrainian population and to our compatriots who are still present there. Russia again chooses war as a means of resolving conflicts. It thus takes responsibility for a terrible setback in history and creates the immediate danger of a widespread conflict threatening all humanity. Our country must take the initiative in a peaceful and diplomatic settlement of the situation. Our goal must be an immediate ceasefire and withdrawal of all foreign troops from Ukraine. To this end, an immediate meeting of the OSCE – the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe – is an available tool.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u30	To condemn Russia?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u31	The United Nations must deliberate urgently and the nations of the world, intervene to restore peace in Europe. I join the group representatives who have asked for a debate in accordance with Article 50-1 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u32	What about Russia?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u33	I had already made this request on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party at the last Conference of Presidents. Given the extreme gravity of the situation, this debate should take place in the coming days, so that the national representation can discuss the actions France will undertake. Above all, we must not accept the escalation of the war, because it would be without return.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u34	Not a word about Russia!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u36	But you didn't listen? I said our conviction!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the time is dramatic. We must avoid developing polemics. Each group has the right to express itself, the citizens will then judge the intervention of each.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u38	It is unworthy to transvestinate our words like this!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u39	Mr Jean-Paul Lecoq has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u40	War is still a failure of diplomacy. France must urgently propose a peace offer. The Group of the Democratic and Republican Left condemns the Russian military intervention in Ukraine;...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u42	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] [["Yes! » on several benches]] ... the consequences of this serious decision may prove uncontrollable. Putin bears responsibility for the outbreak of war and the burning of the entire region. This is a failure for all, because the security of Europe and Ukraine is inseparable from that of Russia. The Russian President bears the military responsibility for this war unleashed in complete disregard of multilateral bodies and international law. Collective responsibility also belongs to all those who have fueled the fire of confrontation at the gates of Russia, suggesting that Ukraine could integrate NATO. This disaster could be avoided – history will judge. In the immediate future, it is essential to protect civilian populations on both sides of the front line. France cannot take part in the conflict either directly or indirectly, by delivering arms. It will find support in Europe and around the world to take pan-European initiatives, independent of NATO and the United States, to put all parties around the negotiating table. It is necessary to strongly support the offer of a European conference on cooperation and collective security, including Russia, in order to reach a political settlement, on the basis of the Minsk agreements and the principles of collective security. We will be at the side of the forces of peace that will manifest themselves in Ukraine, Russia, Europe and the rest of the world. On the other hand, we also affirm that Parliament must remain mobilised, despite the parliamentary break due to elections.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u44	[[Applause on all benches]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious moment, but together we can promote peace. Jacques Prévert wrote: "What a stupid war."
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u45	We are going back to work. I thank the Minister for Solidarity and Health who immediately agreed to change the agenda for the meeting. Mr Philippe Gosselin has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u46	Mr President, on behalf of all the groups, I would like once again to thank you for allowing us to speak on behalf of the national representation. On behalf of all of us, I reaffirm our solidarity with Ukraine, a sovereign nation now invaded. In this context, it may seem surreal to discuss the health situation, I agree. Everyone measures the gravity of the moment. Without the time to pull the curtain – far from it – we end up talking about this problem. It will probably be my last official speech here on this subject, which has taken us a long time in recent months. After a complicated discussion last November, a debate was torn away – the term is not too strong – from the government...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u47	By us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u48	Yes, my dear colleague, if you wish, we can say that it is thanks to the Democratic Group; However, from the beginning, the Republican Group called for this debate, as it continues to insist that national representation be associated with the conduct of health policy. We end up for a debate without a vote. Through the Minister of Solidarity and Health, the Government preferred to take stock of the past two years, rather than offer opportunities. With modesty and a lot of humility, recognize that art is difficult. I readily admit that being a member of the Government, particularly the Minister of Health, is a daily occupation, day and night.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u49	No, no!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u50	Never, Minister, have we put you in default about your concern or your commitment.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u51	But?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u52	Nevertheless,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u53	It's starting!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u54	Nevertheless, we have great differences with you. Would we have done better? The question may seem presumptuous, but it can be answered in the affirmative. Of course, we welcome action in the social and economic fields, particularly in the business sector, with the introduction of the State-guaranteed loan (GLP) and partial unemployment. But it must be pointed out that the bill will fall at some point, and that it will have to be held accountable in every sense of the word. I don't trust "we have to," so I humbly say it: in some areas, I think we would have done better. This is the case with masks, which were told at the beginning of the crisis that they were completely useless; You haven't been able to manage the stock or the distribution. The same applies to hydro-alcoholic gel. We would also have done better with regard to the relationship with the elected representatives and local and regional authorities, who have been in the forefront: you have relegated them for too long, with distrust, because they probably didn't seem worthy of you. You have not been able to animate the network of local authorities, yet at the cutting edge of the action, by their proximity. The couple formed by the prefect and the mayor, whose merits you have boasted, rather than forming the expected duo, has long been in a duel position, and that is a shame. You have for too long refused the territorialization of certain measures, even though this would have made it possible to adapt to local needs and realities. Of course, you did the best you could, proportionately, you said. However, contrary to what you said in your speech, the rule of law has indeed been shaken. I did not say that France was no longer a rule of law; I never said that we were in dictatorship, that the President of the Republic had arrogated to himself powers that did not come back to him. Our remarks have never reached such an outrage, and the current situation would make such exaggerated and surrealist statements appear. We are Republicans: we have never challenged the legitimacy of the President, of the Government, of the majority. However, contrary to the Prime Minister's assertion yesterday, the rule of law has indeed been shaken; Although the Government had ruled, Parliament had not been able to legislate fully, as it should have done, nor had it been able to fully monitor and evaluate the Government's action, despite the numerous hearings. Indeed, it is not enough to audition to control, it is also necessary to draw the consequences of the hearings, which was rarely possible. You are talking about thousands of amendments tabled and debated. But how many were adopted? Almost none. So yes, I say again that our democracy, for the past two years, has worked, at least, in degraded mode, or even, for long months, particularly degraded. With the regime of exit from the state of emergency, which will apply until mid-summer 2022, we still live in a somewhat exorbitant form of law. Society, like us, has no doubt become accustomed to the trivialization of the state of emergency. The imbalance is too great between health requirements, of course important, and respect for public and individual freedoms. Thus, it was justice that restored freedom of worship, and the Constitutional Council declared that some of the provisions in the various texts we adopted were not in conformity with the Constitution. What will my colleague Josiane Corneloup say about the situation of our elders in the EHPADs? On several occasions, the National Ethics Advisory Committee (NEAC) has sounded the alarm. What about the debates on the essential character of shops? Let us not forget these aspects! Appointments with Parliament have often been snatched more than negotiated. You have sent them back too often the next day, with the exception of numerous hearings, it is true. You have consistently rejected the re-visit clauses that we proposed to you, while the Council of State, in its annual study, had suggested that they were necessary. Why delay these appointments, which could strengthen national unity? Finally, come to the situation of the last few weeks. At the beginning of January, you voted for the introduction of the vaccination pass, which is, it should be recalled, a somewhat disguised vaccination obligation, as you yourself acknowledged in an interview given to Brut a little before Christmas. As you know, I am constant, I accept my disagreement with a part of my group on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u55	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u56	How was the vaccination pass useful at that time, when 91% of the population had already been vaccinated? Your strategy is not that of failure – I won't be so virulent – but you have put everything on vaccination, while you have to follow other paths, especially with regard to the weakest audiences. The Government should have taken the measure of the difficulties of the public hospital for the past two years. I welcome the unwavering, daily commitment of all caregivers, white hussars, who can no longer do so. However, for almost two years, 7,000 beds have been closed, of which 4389 have been closed in 2020 alone. Despite the almost compulsory vaccination, the number of people with covid has continued to increase. The situation is now stabilized and the number of people affected is decreasing. It is therefore essential to lift the measures relating to the vaccination pass, which makes vaccination almost compulsory. Change your approach, leave this political strategy, give their freedom to our citizens, adopt the measures in force in certain countries such as Denmark or the United Kingdom! [[Applause on the benches of the LR group]] Of course, it is not a question of disarming ourselves, but we must now learn to live with covid on a daily basis, for many years to come. We must get out of the state of emergency and return to normal: this is the condition for the improvement of the situation.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u57	Mr Philippe Vigier has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for allowing the public expression of parliamentary groups. Thank you, Minister, for agreeing to discuss the situation in Ukraine, a war on European soil, for a few minutes. As a convinced European, I believe that Europe will be able to show its strength and its capacity for conviction, and will demonstrate that European construction is the best bulwark of democracy. I would also like to thank our colleague Frédéric Petit, who spoke on behalf of the Democratic Group with words full of emotion and who has provided us with insight through his wonderful knowledge of this territory. This morning's debate is an important moment, as we have been in this House for two years because of the pandemic, one of the most deadly we have seen in many years. This meeting is not anecdotal, I say to Philippe Gosselin: the Group of the Democratic Movement (MODEM) and Related Democrats was the one who defended an amendment calling for a debate on 15 February. Some expressed doubts; They are lifted and the democratic debate is taking place. Some said that we were going over the presidential election and that this would be discussed again in June. I told them that a new President or President of the Republic could at any time ensure that a democratic debate took place. It's taking place this morning. Word given, word kept; I would like to stress that. This debate is taking place this morning, in a more serene context. Let us remember where we were six weeks ago, with 400,000 cases a day, when we now count 800,000. Minister, you said on a television channel that the wave was falling back. This decline is clear; Let's say it, it's a happy step back. I have a thought for the nearly 150,000 deaths of the pandemic and for the healthcare staff. No voice on any bench has spoken any differently this morning. I have a thought for all those who have lost their lives and for those who, victims of a long covid, will not have life before. Was Parliament involved in these decisions? A little violent words have been used, such as that of dictatorship. I have been interested in what has happened in parliamentary life – Presidents Braun-Pivet and Khattabi, who have been very mobilized, will say better than I do: twelve bills, hundreds of hours of debate in committee and sitting, tens of thousands of amendments. Has the rule of law been preserved? Yes, the Constitutional Council and the Council of State have ruled. Everyone knows, they are the ones who say the right and indicate whether it is guaranteed or not. I remember a joint committee on the health pass – I'm looking at the chair of the Law Committee – which everyone predicted would fail. With collective intelligence and after long hours, we managed to ensure that the spirit of responsibility was on the rendezvous, one evening in the Senate in November, at about twenty-three thirty. With regard to the democratic debate, I have made a count: during the five years of the legislature, 170 topical issues in the Government concerned the only pandemic. Under the Fifth Republic, are you aware of another subject that has so much "vampired" current issues? The scientific bodies have naturally been involved, each time. France is a democratic country in which there is a High Health Authority; You don't do what you want, even when you're a minister. The Advisory Board for the Immunization Strategy issued fifty-five opinions. I found it important to recall all this this this morning. The incidence peaks of the first four waves have been largely exceeded, each of which is appropriate. You remember that in December's debates, we didn't know if the new omicron variant was going to overwhelm us all. We knew that it was spreading much faster – the numbers proved it – but with regard to its pathogenic dimension, few voices were raised to ensure that there would not be a dramatic result. Have we done anything right or done anything wrong? I think things have been really well taken care of. Of course, everything wasn't perfect: who could say otherwise? In such situations, humility must guide us. We learn by walking and make decisions every day; Some have not been understood by our fellow citizens. When it comes to restricting individual freedoms, we make decisions in conscience, determining whether or not they can prevent the pandemic. In those moments, it is normal that there should be an opposition and a democratic debate. But we must not fall into the political game; It would be a bad service to national representation. When the time comes, in a few weeks or months, everyone will know what has been done. It doesn't stop now, first we have to get out of the pandemic permanently. Epidemiologists and scientists will work in the coming months and years; A lot of books will come out. We will see if the right decisions have been made at the right time. I have the weakness to think that we have done things with efficiency, courage and strength. Minister, you've made a lot of commitment. You have been a minister for two years now and from the first day you have had to make immediate decisions. This is a significantly better situation that we are now facing, which will allow us to relax certain protocols. It is true that there were failures regarding the school in early January. When you're involved in local life and you get instructions for the next morning, it's a little complicated. You also learn from your mistakes. For the February vacation, communities were sensitized upstream. I am one of those, very involved in the field, who have tried to overcome all these difficulties. I do not understand why the prospect of lifting the restrictions in mid-March is considered an electoral argument. The Constitutional Council, dear to Philippe Gosselin, has already swept everything away; He explained that whatever happens, we can vote, with or without a pass, in all cases. Therefore, this argument should not be used. As for those who knew, on 15 December, that we could loosen the vice in February... I love Asterix and the Druids, but I can't find myself there, I must have missed an episode!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u59	Be serious!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u60	With regard to the choice of vaccination strategy, you said earlier, my colleague, that compulsory vaccination should be imposed. I met the antivax: we wouldn't have had enough law enforcement to explain it to them, between two gendarmes. I'm for conviction. I have seen, as a health professional, how much our fellow citizens are asking for a health pass and a vaccination pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u61	Obviously, you didn't listen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u62	You disagree; It's an assumed disagreement! I saw 16- or 17-year-olds explain to me that they were being vaccinated to go to the movies with their friends or to practice different activities. We have allowed vaccine freedom from the age of 16 – a new freedom granted to young people. A candidate you support, dear colleague, proposes to upgrade the driver's licence to sixteen years of age; So it's not an adversarial age, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u63	That's not the point, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u64	The choice of the vaccination strategy is a good choice: the cost of vaccination has been fully borne by the state and the cost of tests at 95% – I am well placed to know it. Otherwise, there is still the possibility of going to a doctor who makes a prescription – we are not going to tell each other stories. Important things have been done, and we have learned. The Government's triptych was "test, alert, protect". Mr Minister, the Democratic Group, to which I have the honour of belonging, proposes a new triptych: "learning, preparing, anticipating". We have seen the fragility of the health system; we have seen terribly engaged professionals; We've seen the Segur's answer. But we must not stop there, because there are still weaknesses. At the moment when François Gros, one of the discoverers of the messenger RNA, just died, I have a thought for those who explained to us that it was dangerous. Known for thirty years by those familiar with medicine, the messenger RNA is, on the contrary, carrying good news for other pathologies. We have been able to react with resilience and self-denial. Above all, most of our fellow citizens have understood the meaning of collective decisions. There will be new pandemics. Will a committee of inquiry ever ask us why we destroyed 900 million masks and if we threw one vaccine out of two, as we did during the H1N1 epidemic – I didn't forget, I was a member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry? Will the resuscitation beds be better armed? Won't we have to stop the country because we don't have enough? Those who voted for years for 2% increases in the national health insurance expenditure target (ONDAM) would do well to revise their classics and look at the increase adopted for the year 2022. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] Minister, thank you for your commitment; Exercise is difficult. I also thank all parliamentarians, respecting our differences – I repeat to this forum my respect for the antivax. But when life is at stake, the essential must be done and we can be proud of what we have all done together.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u65	Mr Gérard Leseul has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u66	We are twenty-four months away from an unprecedented health crisis. The covid is first of all dramatic human consequences: 137500 of our fellow citizens have lost their lives. I want to have a thought for all the victims, for those who are still affected by this disease and for their families. France passed the peak of the fifth wave of covid-19. After a further increase in hospitalizations, especially in critical care, and a new saturation of hospital services, a recent improvement in the health situation, with significant decreases in the various indicators, confirms the scenarios of the Institut Pasteur. You have published, Minister, a timetable for reducing health measures, and you have finally decided to hold a debate in Parliament under Article 50-1 of the Constitution. That's a good thing. This contrasts with your decision to extend the medical pass last November for nine months, without providing for the re-visit clause that we were asking for.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u67	Of course you have to rip it off!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u68	Today's debate was necessary to take account of the evolution of the epidemic, before our work was suspended. We must of course remain humble in the face of the management of such an epidemic. The covid took everyone short; No one could measure its severity or duration. Without a treatment solution or vaccine, the use of containment was inescapable. We will never say enough about the exceptional work of the hospital staff, who have held the health care system at arm's length. The Socialist and Related Group once again stresses the social and political need for a major emergency plan for the public hospital, which it had already expressed before the crisis. There is also a need for real pay revalorisations, beyond the Ségur de la santé, which unfortunately creates incomprehension or even a sense of injustice among the professions excluded from it. There is also a need for career-attractive measures and a reshaping of hospital governance, which remains unbalanced at the expense of health-care teams. Could steps have been taken upstream to slow down the epidemic? Probably. I'm not going back to the masks. I will take the example of telework, which was often announced too late by the Government, particularly last autumn. An earlier introduction could have prevented overcrowded public transport, paradoxes and misunderstandings of the many restrictions imposed on citizens. Indeed, the coherence and readability of the measures are decisive elements of a good acceptance of crisis management. The Scientific Council, created to inform the political decision in the context of this crisis, has repeatedly recalled, in particular through its president Professor Delfraissy, the importance of introducing such measures to stop the epidemic. Could the Scientific Council have been more listened to? I believe it, minister. Mistakes and lack of anticipation must be learned in order to enable society to adapt, while preserving individual rights and freedoms to the fullest possible extent, in order to effectively combat the risk of epidemic resurgence. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we are not done with this epidemic, because we have to recognize it with lucidity. It is in this context that the Office for the Evaluation of Scientific and Technological Choices (OPECST) has been carrying out serious work since the beginning of the health crisis. Several reports have been published; A next report on the pharmacovigilance of vaccines is expected to be released at the end of May. I quote this work because I am convinced – really convinced – of the absolute need for transparency. Our ability to better anticipate and predict epidemic resurgences is also found in the Assembly's monitoring activities. They must therefore be strengthened and seized of all the analyses, proposals and debates, which are all solid avenues for dealing with the unpredictability of the virus. We didn't get out of the covid. The emergence of the omicron variant, associated with decreased lethality, may have appeared to some as a slide to an endemic. However, the protection provided by infection or vaccination appears to be relatively limited in duration and the circulation of the virus increases the risk of a more dangerous variant emerging. It therefore seems essential to maintain an ambitious sequencing policy in the coming months in order to monitor the variants in circulation without selection bias. In a logic of permanent anticipation, it is particularly necessary to work on scenarios of emergence of new variants with characteristics different from those currently known. Provision should be made for the adaptation of screening, health and vaccination protocols; The fall of January should be used as an example in order not to duplicate the same mistakes. From an international point of view, since July, we have been calling, as part of our work, for the establishment of a World Health Organization-WHO-wide surveillance network for viruses and variants in developing countries that do not have the capacity to do so themselves. This leads me once again to the question of the lifting of patents, on which my group took a position very quickly. Since the discovery and production of vaccines, you have always refused this measure. France must work to ensure that all countries have rapid access to vaccination against covid-19, by making an ambitious contribution to dose donation initiatives in many countries, but also by supporting local health authorities responsible for controlling production chains, in order to avoid the risk of producing vaccines of lower quality than standard products. I regret that President Macron, who has just taken the presidency of the Council of the European Union, has not yet said a word about the lifting of patents and international health solidarity. As we know, the omicron variant comes from South Africa. If we do not help developing countries protect their population, then the virus will continue to circulate in several parts of the world and will come back in waves in Western countries. This is why it is necessary to push for extensive genomic monitoring in both humans and animals, in order to know precisely the viral diversity in circulation and to anticipate the emergence of new variants. In addition to vaccination, we must of course continue to work on a comprehensive therapeutic strategy against covid, encouraging, in particular, the development of treatment for this disease. I am thinking, for example, of repositioned molecules such as camostat or the second generation of monoclonal antibodies, which is also under study. It appears necessary to develop new funding to conduct clinical research and to allow regulatory adaptations so that these trials can quickly have the necessary authorisations. Finally, it is essential to create a functional European structure so that different countries can pool their clinical research efforts. These recommendations of the OPECST are in part in line with those of the report of the committee of inquiry responsible for identifying the factors which led to the fall of the share of industry in France's GDP and for defining the means to be used to relocate the industry, and in particular that of the medicine, which I submitted a few weeks ago. In general, it is necessary to give researchers greater access to health agency data in order to benefit from the expertise and commitment of the academic world. I come to the direct consequences of this epidemic, particularly the emergence of long covid. Loss of taste, smell, great fatigue, shortness of breath, cognitive disorders, muscle pain, long covid is a painful reality for patients. Although his symptoms are varied and fluctuating, they are often very disabling. It is difficult to identify the number of people affected, but the main risk is precisely the delay in taking care of them. The recognition of covid as an occupational disease a few months ago goes in the right direction, but we need to go further in the management of this new disease. It is necessary to relax the criteria of recognition, to include long covid in the list of long-term conditions (LLD), to facilitate the management of this pathology by city medicine, to establish a specific communication and finally to speed up the research on the causes of this long form of covid. The consequences of the epidemic are also indirect. The five epidemic waves have led to extensive deprogramming of care and operations in hospitals, and to less effective management of a large number of pathologies, which we must take seriously in the coming months. I want to warn you about real fears about the vulnerability of cancer patients. As a result of delays in screening, oncologists have seen cancer patients arriving in more advanced stages as a result of the first wave; Late screening involves a more advanced stage of the disease.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u69	It's a loss of life!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u70	It is therefore essential to relaunch, soon and massively, important screening campaigns and to promote them in the media. The health crisis has finally led to its destabilization for our children. It has sometimes revealed many pre-existing problems: the unequal nature of the French education system, the lack of preparation of teachers. There is still concern about the future of young students and pupils, particularly from the vocational fields, who have suffered more from the consequences of the closure of schools. Long-term indicators will be needed to monitor mental health status. [[Ms. Michèle Victory applauds]] In conclusion, questioning and questioning, which are at the heart of the scientific approach, lead to considerable discoveries and advances. The scientific and medical debate is healthy and necessary; Parliament's debate is equally so in order to respect and preserve our democracy and our public freedoms.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u71	President Becht has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u72	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, my first thought goes to the nearly 140,000 people who have lost their lives in France as a result of the epidemic, as well as to their bereaved families. I am also thinking of the 22 million people – and probably more than that – who have had to face the virus, sometimes violently, even being hospitalized or resuscitated, for some. One thing is certain, nothing prepared us to deal with such an epidemic at the global level. Deputy of the agglomeration of Mulhouse, which was the epicentre of the first wave in France, I still remember these waves of ambulances which, for a week, at a rate of one every ten minutes, poured an incessant flood of patients in absolute urgency at the gates of the hospital center. I remember these halls engulfed with sick people on the bars of the operating rooms that had to be converted into resuscitation beds in haste. I remember the field military hospital that was set up in the parking lot of the hospital. I remember the transfer of patients by helicopter, plane or TGV. I remember these premises that had to be requisitioned to store the bodies of the deceased, the morgue and the funerarium being overwhelmed by the rhythm of death.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u73	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u74	I remember above all the courage and self-denial of these thousands of caregivers in hospitals and clinics, but also of the city doctors, who held on for months, pushing the limits of physical and moral fatigue. Yes, nothing prepared us to face this and yet we held on. In the face of a completely unknown disease, which most of the existing treatments seemed unable to treat quickly, it was necessary to adapt and first do everything to curb contamination. Like most countries in the world, we have made the choice in this Assembly, together with the Government and the President of the Republic, to establish strict containment of the entire population. After the shock of the disease, the deprivation of almost all freedoms was going to upset us. The fact of not having the right to go out of your home, except to do some shopping, not even to be able to walk your dog, except 1 kilometer away from your home, would become a test in a country of freedom. While everyone hoped that the nightmare would last only a few months, it was clear that the pandemic would be sustainable, since a second and then a third wave at the end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021 appeared. Each time, according to the evolution of the virus, we have had to adapt the device, introducing confinement and then curfew, always seeking a precarious balance between, on the one hand, the protection of freedoms and, on the other, that of health. As part of the efforts to control the epidemic, I would like once again to thank the caregivers who have stood by, but also the laboratories that have invested in capital and human resources to give France one of the best testing capabilities in the world, as well as all the health professions, including pharmacists, who have spared no effort to explore the limits of our nostrils with great reinforcement of swabs. I would also like to thank all the people who, in business, but also in government, have enabled the economy to hold on and continue to feed our homes, which have saved millions of jobs while the activity has largely stopped. Finally, I would like to thank the French and French who have bowed to all these constraints and who, for the most part, resisted the sirens of the new guruses of social networks, television sets and sometimes hemicycles who proclaimed, with the help of fake news, that the virus did not exist and that all this was only a vast global plot to assassinate our freedoms or inject chips that would offer us free 5G for life. It must be noted that if the real origins of the virus are still very unclear and the pangolin could be exculpated, we still pay our telephone subscriptions, except for the 6 to 10 million people who died of the virus in the world – almost as many in two years as military personnel who died in the First World War. Yes, the President of the Republic was right in March 2020 to call the situation a "war" against the virus. This war has had its battles, its fighters, its dead but also, as in any war, its technological ruptures that allow at some point to gain a decisive advantage. Vaccines, like treatments, have played this role. While in 2020 and early 2021 we were forced to live at the pace of confinement and curfews, from the second half of 2021 and the beginning of 2022, we recovered most of our freedoms, despite the arrival of the fourth, fifth and sixth waves. Although vaccines have not kept all their promises, particularly that of stopping the transmission of the virus, they have undoubtedly prevented 98% of us from developing serious forms of the disease, those that lead to hospital, resuscitation or cemetery.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u76	This worked even though the omicron wave caused massive contamination of nearly half a million people a day. Yes, it must be said: without vaccines, we would probably still live at the rate of confinements and curfews. They were therefore not an infringement of our freedoms but, on the contrary, a very effective tool to find them. I would like to thank the 55 million French people who have been vaccinated. As we come out of the omicron wave, the question now is what we can hope for. Indeed, today we must live with hope. In the face of the massive reflux of contamination and the steady decline in hospitalizations, we will probably be able to abandon, within a few weeks, the last constraints, including the vaccination pass, and finally regain a complete regime of freedom. But beyond that, have we definitely emerged from the nightmare, can we consider that covid will disappear or be reduced to an almost benign disease, endemic in nature, thanks to the new treatments that arrive on the market? That is what we all want, that is what we hope and that seems likely. Unfortunately, nothing is certain and, in any event, two conditions are necessary to achieve this. The first is that no new variant that is even more contagious and lethal than those we have known will come back to upset the game. The second is that covid, even if it takes a benign form, does not create long forms with the persistence of long-lasting disabling symptoms in too many people, at the risk of then posing a long-term health problem for the population as a whole. Once again, science will need to be trusted to develop even more effective new vaccines, including to prevent the transmission of the virus, or new treatments for mild or long forms of the disease, if the virus settles on a sustainable basis. However, even if the future is by nature uncertain, the Group's conviction to act together for this end of the legislature is as follows: even if we could sometimes have done or said things otherwise, it is not certain that we could have or anyone else could have done better. What is true in France is also true throughout the world. My second conviction, in this ordeal, which occupied almost half of the quinquennium, is that the French have been able to show a spirit of resistance that has so often forged the history of our country, a force that will enable us, I am sure, to emerge from the epidemic even stronger than we have entered it. In any case, these are our wishes. [[Applause on the benches of the Action ens group]] We once again thank the Government and the entire national representation for the work we have done and will probably continue to do to combat the epidemic. We all hope to find a normal life as soon as possible; That is what our fellow citizens rightly aspire to.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u77	Excellent!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u78	Mr Pascal Brindeau has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u79	If we are gathered, under Article 50-1 of the Constitution, for a debate on the current state of affairs of the health crisis and its management, it may, unfortunately, seem somewhat out of step with regard to the international crisis situation and the war that is now unfolding on Ukrainian soil. Thank you, Mr President, for allowing the representatives of each political group to speak on this subject, prior to our debate. In spite of all its topicality, many of our fellow citizens are still struck by the health crisis. Like others, I have a thought for the more than 137,000 of our fellow citizens who have lost their lives since the beginning of the crisis of the Covid-19. Of course, we can welcome the significant and rapid improvement in the health situation, since the various indicators – the incidence rate, the reproductive rate – show a rapid decline. Let us simply bear in mind that the incidence rate is currently around 800 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, and that only a few months ago, when the incidence rate exceeded 900 cases, the country was confined or a curfew was introduced as early as nineteen hours for the whole of a department or region – I am thinking of the overseas. Today, even with the very rapid proliferation of the omicron variant, which submerged us – we knew it, we saw it coming – the restrictive measures of our freedoms are nevertheless, thanks to the vaccine, less than at the beginning of the crisis, especially during the total confinement of the population for several weeks, in March 2020. In your speech, Mr. Minister, you have swept away with one hand what you consider to be somewhat sterile polemics on a number of issues – the rule of law, the timetable for lifting a number of restrictions for the coming weeks – I will come back to that. This crisis generates two types of debate. The first, which, from my point of view, is quite illegitimate, is that of the irrational. Unfortunately, for a number of politicians, it is a matter of denying reality and, disregarding the scientific spirit, refusing to recognize that research has fortunately, in record time, enabled almost the entire world population – we will also be able to go back to this "almost" – to have access to vaccines that save lives by protecting, at least, serious forms of the virus. Research enables us to cope even when the epidemic crisis is rebounding or when the wave of a new variant such as omicron is emerging. Indeed, you have recalled, no one can say whether tomorrow, in a few weeks, in a few months or in a few years, we will experience the permanent disappearance of this virus or whether it will return in other forms, seasonal or not. The vaccine, on the other hand, allows us to be certain that we can fight the disease more effectively than in its absence. The second debate is that of rationality, which I consider to be perfectly legitimate, which can lead one and the other to criticize the proposed measures and to make counter-proposals: it is all the usefulness of the parliamentary debate and the honour of the mandate that is ours. Mr Minister, as you have seen in the debates on the various texts we have studied, we do not always agree on everything. We recognize, however, that you have the will to work on two axes, which we share. The first is, of course, to protect the health of our fellow citizens: one would have to be petrified of certainties to consider that it would have been easy to take such or such action at the beginning of the crisis, when little was known about it, not even scientists. When, in March 2020, our country was overwhelmed by the evolution of the virus, the measures taken, which were very hard and binding on the lives of our fellow citizens, were neither unfair nor inadequate overall. Then – this is the real debate we can have – you have sometimes been forced to make questionable decisions, for example by asking Parliament to divest itself of its constitutional prerogatives for a few weeks or months. First of all, given the urgency of the situation, we accepted it. We then challenged the method of ease that you have chosen, asking ourselves for too long periods of application, in particular with regard to the state of health emergency or transitional measures: the way in which the institutional relations between the executive and Parliament could have been managed could have been more fluid. You will reply that we have spent hundreds of hours debating these bills: yes, but we have the – legitimate – feeling that Parliament has rather been a place for ex post debate of the decisions taken by the executive, which is regrettable for the vitality of the parliamentary institution and our democratic life. The situation of the public hospital is the second axis we share with you, including the policy towards our caregivers – you called them "the white hussars of the Republic" and we applauded them every night, at 8:00 p.m., at the beginning of the crisis, with incredible gratitude. Today they need rest for many of them: we need to be very vigilant because, if the health situation improves very quickly, the number of hospitalizations, including those in resuscitation, is falling less rapidly. This is logical, since there is always a gap between the reflux of the virus and hospital discharges, whether it is resuscitation or conventional hospitalization. Nevertheless – as we know, as you know – the public hospital has suffered. One of the weaknesses of France is the unpreparation situation in which it finds itself. The hospital struggled to be responsive to an unprecedented health crisis, which could have led to an improvement in our health system. The IDU and independent group is campaigning for a regionalisation of health policy issues: as we have seen, local and regional authorities are more reactive than the state, deconcentrated or central. Minister – I have only ten minutes and will exceed my speaking time –,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u80	It's moving fast!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u81	...this debate is probably not the last: if the situation is improving further and the lifting of restrictions that you have announced are taking place, I would very much like us to be able to discuss the date of the exit of the state of emergency, scheduled for 31 July, which, from our point of view, has been the subject of an excessive precaution.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u82	Ten minutes was a long time!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u83	I could tell you the same thing!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u84	Mr Bertrand Pancher has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u85	In its history, humanity has had so many times to deal with epidemics, earthquakes and crises. They have sometimes devastated entire continents, sowing death and desolation. Each of these episodes was unique, but each time, at the end, remained only an aspiration for people: to regain a normal life and give meaning to their lives. During the covid crisis, the vast majority of our fellow citizens, especially young people, the elderly and healthcare workers, showed great civic sense, respecting difficult confinements with exceptional courage. This crisis first revealed the extreme fragility of our social organization – I am of course thinking of our health system. I have alerted, like all of you, on many occasions, to the state of extreme fatigue of caregivers. Health is a crucial good: we have unfortunately weakened it, with chronic under-investment in hospitals and triumphant technocracy. We must of course improve our public services, but not at the cost of their sacrifice. Of course, the announcements of the Ségur de la santé were welcome. The commitment is significant, but still insufficient; beds continue to be closed. It is a real change of course that we must collectively make, to re-establish health as a priority and, finally, to ask ourselves again, the question of the meaning of our public services. You announce, with the respite of the crisis, relaxations, patiently distilled, sanitary restrictions: end of the mask in recreation, then in the closed places at the end of March, even lifting the vaccination pass. Now, as we all know, the real issue is to re-create, at last, trust. On the method, I remind the French and French that we are under the 12th emergency law, which deprives us of many individual freedoms. In particular, we had requested that the creation of the vaccination pass be, at a minimum, conditioned by a re-visit clause before the end of the session. We were ready to come back and sit, if necessary. You have not accepted our requests, preferring a debate without real stakes. I regret that, because this debate will not once again allow us to influence decisions. As I said, our fellow citizens aspire to a peaceful life, but we know that this epidemic and its management will leave deep traces. The Assembly must take stock of the ongoing crisis management that we have been in for almost two years. We must draw the consequences, in particular so that the exception does not become the norm. It is also important to understand in our fellow citizens the thirst for anticipation, consultation and transparency in the decisions to be taken and to put in place a new democratic framework for the country now. This work has not been done, which does not prevent us from putting the work back on the job. By typing on the nail, he'll end up sinking. Yes, governing in time of covid is eminently complex. We now have a step back and a better understanding of the epidemic. Within a few months, science has made major advances, even though unknowns remain. I understand, I repeat, the difficulties of exercising the responsibilities that have been yours, minister, and it is always easier to criticize than to act. I also salute the local elected officials, who have done a remarkable job. In this period of democratic disenchantment, it is important to pay tribute, once again, to the caregivers, to the "first of chores", to the leaders of associations, to all those who allow the country to move forward. I have had the opportunity to say this on many occasions: the harder decisions are made, the more they must be shared, the greater the number involved. Too many of our fellow citizens have had the opposite feeling in recent years: a sense of truth truncated after mistakes and lies – let us remember the controversy over masks at the beginning of the crisis. This feeling will have been shared by many scientists, intermediate bodies, teachers, parents of students, elected local... The over-pyramidal management of the country has been strengthened. Parliament, for its part, has been lowered to a level unprecedented in our history. The Council of Ministers has also disappeared. Only a Health Defence Council has been decided, which leaves nothing to go, and a President too isolated. Let us also remain self-satisfied and modest. Has hyper-centralised crisis management enabled us to achieve better results than our neighbours? Let us take one indicator: the number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. France, with a total of almost 137000 deaths, is in the average of the European Union countries, no more or less. Returned to the total population, this number represents just over 2000 deaths per million inhabitants, i.e. the level of Spain or Portugal, where freedom restrictions have been much lower than in France. While this ratio is much lower in other countries, there are fewer than 1500 deaths per million inhabitants in Germany and less than 1300 in Ireland. Let us therefore remain modest. I will not go back exhaustively to all the measures taken over the past twenty-six months, but I will dwell on two recent decisions showing that nothing has really changed. The first concerns the health protocol put in place in schools at the beginning of January: let us remember the protocols transmitted on Sunday in the afternoon, before the beginning of the school year; Remember teachers without FFP2 masks, classrooms not equipped with CO sensors and air purifiers. Three amendments were made to this protocol in less than a week. Let us remember the setting up of the vaccination pass. Have we not, once again, legislated urgently without this being necessary and according to a political timetable almost assumed, the President of the Republic by adding a layer by revealing the real object of this vaccination pass, "wrong the non-vaccinated"? When we examined this text, we said that this pass was not the only way to fight for vaccination coverage and that it was an addition of measures that was effective – a position shared by the Scientific Council. These results will be added to the collective awareness of the mask shortage in 2020 and the failures of the first few weeks of vaccine delivery. This erratic management was even sometimes coupled with forms of contempt that we could have done without. This great health crisis is in addition to others: the environmental crisis, which we unfortunately only know about the beginning of the effects, the social crisis, with this explosion of inequalities, especially those of wealth, the crisis of our values. Our fellow citizens are disenchanted, they no longer believe in anything. Even scientific rationalism is put to the test – and yet, without progress, there is no salvation. Democracy, our most dearest good, is under threat, and I know how much, Mr Minister and all of you, ladies and gentlemen, you are deeply aware of it. We alerted the President of the Republic to the yellow vest crisis by urging him to get out of it from the top by giving the floor to our fellow citizens and opening the debate on institutional reform. I deplored the fact that the majority did not wish to commit themselves to the rebalancing of powers, particularly with a proportion so that the Government could be controlled by a Parliament that reached consensus among the largest number of political groups representing all the French. I have not understood that you are not engaging in a great shock of decentralization in the field of health, by settling the issue of RHAs in order to restore power to local elected officials, close to the ground. You have tested forms of participatory democracy that are far too timid. In the face of the anxieties that are troubling our fellow citizens, I tell you again with a great solemnity: the country is capable of reviving itself, of rebuilding itself and undoubtedly of facing all the great challenges of our time, on one condition: to work together at last. For this reason, it is crucial that those who will take responsibility in the coming months act so that everything that will be decided tomorrow is done in a new framework, where the most important decisions would finally be shared. Contrary to the opinion of all the prophets of bad augurs, our country will never recover by continuing to decide alone or by opposing the French from one another. On the contrary, we need to bring our fellow citizens together, and to do so we need a genuine democratic renewal based on consultation and sharing of decisions. [[Mr. Pierre Dharréville applauds]] This is my last speech in this Parliament today. I thank the voters who trusted me. It was an honour for me to represent them, while regretting that my struggles, especially for democratic renewal, have made so little progress. Maybe by typing hard on the nail, he'll end up sinking. As far as we are concerned, we will always be at the side of those who defend these indispensable reforms that I dream of finally succeeding.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u86	Mrs Mathilde Panot has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u87	It is the heavy heart that I begin this intervention, thinking of the Ukrainian people and as the history of our old continent turns under the blow of Russian aggression. While waiting for the Prime Minister to speak before national representation and the nation, this morning we are debating health policy and the circumstances I have just recalled cannot absolve the Government of the policy it has pursued for the past two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u88	And come on...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u89	A precision for those who listen to us and would not be used to it: the word "debate" takes on a particular meaning in Macronie. Actually, the Republic on the move is having a hard time with nuances. For her, a debate in the presence of ministers is a concert of praise, the Chamber, a showroom in front of a conquered audience. A speech becomes an apology, a speech a contest of flattery and this rostrum a place obliged to genuflect. If you see MPs applaud when a minister has a cough, raises his eyebrows or approaches the microphone without saying a word, don't be afraid, it's normal.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u90	What contempt for national representation, what contempt for your colleagues!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u91	When it comes to a debate, a fortiori in health matters, the same mechanics are in place. First, a member of the La République on the move exclaimed: "I salute the minister for his courage. "I think we've done the right thing to preserve the jobs and health of our fellow citizens. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u92	But what a contempt for the deputies!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u93	A third increase: "Thanks to your action, the incidence rate of coronavirus has decreased. » [[Claims on several banks of the LaREM Group]] And when our turn comes and we point out the serious flaws of your health policy, we are told that we have no proposals, that we are hostile to science, that we are destroying democracy and above all – the ultimate argument, your favorite, minister – that we would be in favour of death by covid. And this with a constancy that forces admiration, colleagues, as much as it is not a centimeter of the ministers' shoes that you have carefully waxed. Let us start from the beginning and start with 2020. 24 January: Agnes Buzyn assures us that the risk of spreading coronavirus from Wuhan is very low. February 1st: in doubt, you are launching a green number. 29 February: you are diverting a health defence counsel to endorse the application of article 49, paragraph 3, of the Constitution to pension reform. 6 March: Emmanuel Macron goes to the theatre and says: "Life continues, there is no reason to change our way out. » March 16: Jupiter thundered: six times, during an address, he declared that "we are at war" and decided on a general containment the next day. In March, again, the World Health Organization (WHO) said "test, test, test". You, you, are passing an emergency bill to ruin the Labour Code, go back to the limit of 48 hours per week and change the entitlement to paid leave. In March again, lack of masks. But it doesn't matter because Sibeth Ndiaye tells us they're useless if we're not sick, and you say, minister, that most caregivers contract the virus outside the hospital. The "first chores" work unprotected and the "essentials" of the nation are the most poorly paid. April: shortage of overblouses, shortage of medication in hospitals. Mr. Le Drian tells us that 2 billion masks have been ordered from China and will arrive in June. At this stage, 0.5% of the population is tested. It doesn't matter, because Emmanuel Macron tells us that testing the entire population would make no sense. May 11th: Definitely. France is still not able to communicate the exact number of tests carried out on its territory. With regard to the shortage of masks, Emmanuel Macron replied: "We have never been in rupture. » May 18: Seventy schools are closed and there are still no air purifiers in the classrooms. July 3: Defining is such a success that "Mr. Déconfinement" is promoted to the rank of Prime Minister. 25 September: Teachers are not considered contact cases. In October, Emmanuel Macron, visiting a hospital, tells us that the saturation of hospitals "is not a matter of means, but of organization". October 16: Jupiter thundered: curfew! Still no recruitment of caregivers or new beds. The rule is as follows: no more than six people at home. In your workplace or in the subway, on the other hand, even at forty, it's okay. November: the finance bill provides €800 million in savings for the public hospital. November 2020, still: Jean-Michel Blanquer considers the installation of air purifiers in classrooms unnecessary and even dangerous.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u94	Let's see!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u95	December: 5700 beds have been removed in hospitals since the beginning of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u96	That's not true!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u97	More than 93,000 cancers are not diagnosed for the year.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u98	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u99	I'm coming to the year 2021. January: big mess. Only 500,000 doses of vaccine are received out of the million promised by the Prime Minister. In addition, two thirds of the storage freezers do not work and the syringes do not comply. 15 January: Jean-Michel Blanquer is still lying. He talks about 0.03% of student contamination to justify the absence of a health protocol at school. Still no air purifiers in the classroom. 22 January: You are announcing at 20 hours, Minister, target 30 million vaccinees by the end of May. In the afternoon, in the Senate, you were talking about 15 million vaccinees by June. Immunization is open to 7 million people, but the country has only 700000 doses. At the end of February, the covid-19 contamination rate in France is among the highest in Europe. It doesn't matter, since the President will finish epidemiologist and he will seek aggregation of immunology. March: you have used seven private consulting firms, in all, for the modest amount of €25 million. In Île-de-France, 40% of hospital interventions other than covid-19 had to be deprogrammed. Teachers will have to pay for the rest of their salivary tests. Still no telework obligation on the business side. March 26th: We're approaching 100,000 dead. Emmanuel Macron states: "I have no mea culpa to do, no remorse, no record of failure. As usual, Jean-Michel Blanquer says about the number of tests performed in primary schools. April: Self-tests will only be available in a month. You state, minister, that "school is not an infectious home." Schools will finally be closed the next day. The vaccination promised to teachers from mid to late April is postponed until mid-June. At the end of April, Jupiter thundered: lifting restrictions, without the advice of the Scientific Council. You keep the curfew at nine o'clock until further notice, without any proof of its effectiveness. 29 April: The President of the Republic assures him: "The health pass will never be a right of access that differentiates the French. » April 30: Your colleagues in the European Parliament reject an amendment to lift patents on covid vaccines. June: 17 million defective FFP2 masks distributed to caregivers have been recalled by your ministry. Just before that, on May 31, you set up the sanitary pass for the big gatherings. July: you extend the health pass "which will never be a right of access that differentiates the French" to the activities of the daily. No more restaurants, coffee, sports, culture, cinema, non-vaccinated citizens: for you, it will be metro-boulot-dodo. October 15: Caregivers without full vaccination schedule are suspended, as well as firefighters. [[Exclaims on the banks of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We arrive in the year 2022. 1st January: Agnès Buzyn is decorated with the Legion of Honour. January 2: Teachers learn about the new protocol – which has changed three times – on the eve of the school year, in a paid article, while Jean-Michel Blanquer is in Ibiza. January 3: Vaccinated and positive covid-19 caregivers must continue to work, but unvaccinated and negative caregivers are still prevented from doing so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u100	It's the Almanach Vermot!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u101	You know what's next. January 2022: "The unvaccinated, I very much want to piss them off." 24 January: implementation of the vaccination pass.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u102	The Almanach Vermot again!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u103	31 January: the CAC40 has mega-profits worth 137 billion euros and 70 billion dividends, but there are 10 million poor, and crisis profiters are still not taxed. February: Accompanied students with disabilities, paid 730 euros per month, receive their first masks of national education.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u104	Mélenchon, it's the Republic!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u105	[[Smiles and applause on a few benches of the LaREM and LR groups]] On this last day of the legislature, try to be noticed by your silence, Mr. Rebeyrotte!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u106	This is the story of your management of the health crisis. So, colleagues, keep your praises for your fairs. What you wrongly call "health policy" has only been an endless series of dulls, lies and risky decisions. That we collectively pull out the head of the water does not wipe out drowning. Bazaar with masks, bazaar with tests, disorder in the vaccination campaign... you didn't anticipate anything and piloted everything blind, you who have cloned the state for five years,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u107	Oh, there!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u108	...the same people who rely on Powerpoint consulting firms to manage our national misfortune.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u109	How many lives have been saved?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u110	We had no choice but to attend your impreparation, since Parliament was trampled: it was defence counsel, TF1 JT, photocopy to Parliament and order; Then, again and again, Defence counsel, TF1 JT, photocopy to Parliament and order... All of our proposals were falling apart, democracy had become a waste of time. Most of all, you made the public pay for your amateurism. The health pass was, at first, a maneuver to catch up with the time you lost the fiasco of your policy. As for the vaccination pass, it is only an authoritarian fantasy of an abyssed power. You've been giving yourself the tricks of responsible people, while you've been sowing chaos for two years. You're stigmatizing part of the population, rather than assuming your collective fault. Proof that the passes have nothing sanitary, they will be lifted a few weeks from the presidential election... hoping that the French have the short memory.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u111	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u112	[[Applause on the benches of the FI group. – Protests on a few benches of the LaREM group]] For two years, Minister, you sailed on sight and led the population into your shipwreck. It is urgent to put yourself out of order to harm, because in health matters – and not only – the truth is this: you are a public danger.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u113	Oh!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u114	It's very easy!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u115	[[Exclaims on various benches]] We'll regret you, Mrs. Panot! You can be proud to leave a trail in history!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u116	A little calm...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u117	She insulted the national representation!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u118	Mr Pierre Dharréville has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u119	In my turn, I would like to express our concern and condemnation of the act of war that has just been committed in Ukraine under the auspices of Vladimir Putin. We call for a great mobilization for peace. The pandemic that has hit the world for two years has imposed a collective test on us that has debunked the planet. It caused more than 137,000 deaths in France. I have a thought about the women and men that the virus took away, here and elsewhere. Like everyone else, I have names and faces in mind.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u120	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u121	I also address those who, every day with courage, have faced the virus as closely as possible; those whose job is to take care, in one way or another, especially in hospitals and EHPADs. They give faith in humanity. This ordeal, which has occupied so much space, is not just a health crisis – it is undoubtedly the product of an ecological crisis. The virus acted as an amplifier of all difficulties; It has affected all the dimensions of our lives. For two years, we have had truncated relationships, with bodies prevented, masked faces, without this tenderness of the daily life through which we feel ourselves, these handshakes, these kisses. Our relations are obviously not reduced to this, but silently, it is also where many of us feel that they are lacking – and this sometimes fuels the roughness of social relations. Culture has been atrophied, and with it encounters, vibrations, questions, emotions, passions and this unique function that makes us human, the relation to the act of creation that invents the world, or at any rate that strives to do so. What, moreover, is to say about the social crisis that was already present, about the inequalities that have deepened, about the injustice done to women, about the jobs that are so crucial and so poorly recognized? We had to support our economy, and partial activity was an indispensable decision. However, we lived two years with our noses on the windshield, in a bad way to project ourselves. This trial has confronted us with the crisis of meaning that our society is going through, where everything is too commodity, too performance, too law of the strongest, too law of money, too flight forward. It should be an opportunity to reconnect to the essentials, to initiate changes, to fork, to choose rather than to undergo the march of the world and its hazards. The "afterworld" that we have been able to dream of may come, but your majority has not taken the lead. You have done a little cabotage along the coast in front of the big weather, but in the very management of the crisis, you have maintained the course set since 2017. Could you have done something else? We think so. No one claims it was easy, and you made the necessary decisions – we are aware of the difficulty of the task, minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u122	Thank you!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u123	Remarkable decisions!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u124	However, you have often taken refuge behind the idea that there was only one option, the one you had chosen – or, more precisely, the one that the President of the Republic had just announced on television. The public debate deserved to be conducted with more intensity and height of view: the country needed it to cope with the crisis. Democratic vitality is not the least of the victims of your health management. From the outset, stewardship focused on a small number of actors and people, revealing an unprecedented weakening of our democratic system. Parliament, local elected representatives, the social partners, the voluntary sector and civil society have been rather marginalized in decision-making processes. You were already very eager to bypass them before! In a ranking of the state of democracies published last week, The Economist places France in thirteenth place on twenty-one European countries. As many as 12 draft laws relating to the state of health emergency have been passed, extending each time the special police powers assigned to the Government to limit the exercise of rights and freedoms. In a 2021 report, the Council of State alerted us about the risks of an extended state of emergency: "Over the long term, its use is harmful: it [...] restricts freedoms excessively and alters, in the long term, social cohesion. It is not without effect, in the immediate and in the long term. The crisis has confirmed a practice of vertical and undivided power, as evidenced by the increasing number of decisions taken unilaterally in the Health Defence Council, the establishment of a Scientific Council that reports only to the executive, and the unprecedented use of private consulting firms replacing public expertise. All this must ask us: democratic life is not a luxury, but a necessity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u125	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u126	This is true in times of crisis as in ordinary times.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u127	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u128	In the ranking I mentioned, French democracy is considered to be failing because of the restrictions on individual and collective freedoms imposed on the population. Our country is damaged and fractured as a result of the crisis, and the method used as a vaccination strategy has not fixed anything. You have made the choice of successively imposing a sanitary pass and a vaccination pass, according to the logic of surveillance, control and sanction. Rather than persuading, you have stigmatized part of the population, helping to fuel social and territorial divides already present. You have mobilized a binary and simplistic discourse, a poor way to fight conspiracy theses. To keep your health goals in mind, you have created cleavages, where it is necessary to gather. The argument of the virus has even been used in favour of pension reform or unemployment insurance, for political purposes. This use of control, coercion and what can be experienced as a form of blackmail and infantilization calls for dynamics that worry us for the perspectives they draw for society. These choices with contradictory effects do not play on the right springs; They testify to a renunciation of confidence-building and of building a shared emancipation. On the other hand, there was a need to develop a health policy that called on society to mobilize to deal with it, a policy that was based on acts of trust rather than authority, and based on the forces available and on a social link to be established through the encounter. Of all this, we haven't gone out yet. While maintaining collective vigilance and voluntary individual vigilance, adapted to the situation, an early exit of these constraints and of the permanent state of emergency must be undertaken; You have to get rid of bad habits. I mentioned vaccination. I will go over the glaring weakness of our research policy, but I will say a word about how you have put yourself back to the market and to the major pharmaceutical groups, without using the legal tools that enable the public authorities to take over by mobilizing production capacities and lifting patents. This attitude is, moreover, the image of a stimulus plan without guarantee – a stimulus plan that was necessary to meet all the challenges we face. Immunization coverage in 56 countries is below 10 per cent. Pharmaceutical laboratories have had time to earn tens of billions of euros in profits thanks to the pandemic, directly linked to the public order – that's also what it costs. The crisis has revealed the weakening of public power, public services and, more particularly, of our public health system – a weakening that you have not been able to stop, and that you have even maintained. Even before the pandemic occurred, the public hospital service was experiencing a deep crisis. The deterioration of the public hospital worsened during the quinquennium as a result of the cuts in spending, the amplification of the ambulatory turn, and I pass. In the wake of a health crisis which revealed the impoverishment of the public hospital – and at the same time the unwavering commitment of the staff – the Government was caught up in reality, granting, with the Ségur de la santé, a salary increase expected for too long, but which hardly compensates for ten years of freezing the index point. Too late, too insufficient, too incomplete, the Ségur de la santé did not end the hospital malaise that had been spreading for many years, nor did it really open up prospects for the hospital. Worse, you have continued to reduce hospitalization capacity: 17900 beds were closed during the quinquennium. As for the management of autonomy, this sluggish question comes back in recent days with strength and seriousness. Caregivers continue to cry out their anger, to suffer frantic rhythms and to suffer from a job that dehumanizes and loses its meaning. Although you have praised the merits of social security, Mr. Minister, you have worked to weaken it for the past five years...,
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u129	Oh! Mr. Dharréville!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u130	...by draining resources. Finally, youth will remain the dead end of your management of the health crisis. While there has been a growing precarization of young people and students, they should have had access to a minimum income. In parallel with this socio-economic precarization, professionals warn us about an explosion of psychological disorders after several months of health restrictions. Taking care of the mental health of young people is an emergency, but the means are still lacking. Teachers are alarmed by "holed" learning, drop-outs and fallbacks that they sometimes see in their classrooms. You've never really taken that step. [[Applause on the benches of the GDR group]] There is, therefore, much to be repaired at the end of this ordeal, which is slow to conclude. There is a lot to repair after the damage of the virus, but also your policy. In my first parliamentary speech in the House, I had torn my paper to symbolize the fate you reserved for the Labour Code. Today, there is so much to reshuffle and sew that I will refrain from tearing my speech: the Republic, Jaurès said, is a great act of trust; We have confidence in the future, and we have faith in humanity.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u131	Mrs Braun-Pivet has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u132	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] It is up to me to speak on behalf of the La République Group and as Chair of the Law Committee; It will probably be my last speech in the gallery in this capacity during the legislature. Madam President Panot, how can you say in this chamber, in Parliament, where the parliamentarians who have been elected by the French people sit, that we will "circh the pumps" of the ministers? It's a shame. It's a scandal. For almost two years the pandemic has been going on, Parliament has played its full part, and you don't mind. It is up to you, elected from the nation, to play yours fully, to contribute to the debate, to the vote of the law and to the control that lies with us, to read the information reports submitted by the Government – in short, to be a Member of Parliament, and to be respectful of your colleagues. I am telling you very seriously, because I am tired of Members denouncing Parliament.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u133	From you, she's the best!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u134	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] You're shooting us in the foot continuously.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u135	We have no lessons to learn, Madam President!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u136	We are listening to Mrs Braun-Pivet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u137	These are not lessons, Mr. Gosselin.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u138	Let's stay modest!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u139	I'm perfectly modest. I've been following the discussions on the health crisis for two years.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u140	Me too!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u141	Remember this month of March 2020, when we were about 20 Members in this House.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u143	I find a few faces today. At that time, we were able to unite.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u144	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u145	[[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM group]] We worked in responsibility to deal with the health crisis, and none of us would pick anybody's shoes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u146	No, nobody! But there's been the rest of it, Madam President! Don't rewrite the story!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u147	We were there to defend our fellow citizens and our freedoms,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u148	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u149	...to defend our institutions.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u150	We're not here to receive lessons!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u151	During the health crisis, we debated 12 texts and therefore voted 12 times. Why? Precisely because we wanted the democratic debate to take place regularly.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u152	It has become yours! And you refused the re-visit clause!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u153	Please, Mr. Gosselin: I did not interrupt you during your speech.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u154	It's a debate!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u155	For once, let me speak, Mr. Gosselin!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u156	Don't lose your nerves! Stay Zen!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u157	Mr Gosselin, I ask you to remain silent from now on.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u158	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Don't worry. It's not because I'm a woman that you have to tell me right now that I'm losing my nerves! Frankly, it's not up to it!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u159	You haven't done this one yet!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u160	You didn't do it to me either! Over ten texts have been adopted by Parliament, the monitoring activity has been continued through the establishment of a commission of inquiry, fact-finding missions, through the hearings conducted by the Law Committee. The dialogue has been constant in our Assembly: six debates have been held under Article 50-1 of the Constitution. The information has been permanent, thanks to published reports on the impact of the health pass, monthly reports and progress reports – twelve have been made public on the website of the Law Commission, to which it is worth adding thirty-five milestones.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u161	But they're in the closet. You don't care!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u162	Debates, votes, control, information, forum for dialogue between parliamentarians and the Prime Minister meeting regularly in Matignon, questions to the Government – the Minister of Solidarity and Health has already mentioned this. How can we imagine for one second that Parliament has been bypassed? On the contrary!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u163	Its functioning has still been degraded!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u164	You didn't even listen to us!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u165	We have played our part to the full and we must welcome it. That's what I'm doing today. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Finally, questions arise about the future. The state of emergency and the regime for exiting the state of emergency will soon end. The health crisis, I hope, will one day be behind us. It will be up to the next elected parliamentarians to think about regimes that could apply in the future, whether states of emergency should be constitutionalised, so as to better frame them and define Parliament's control. This work is before us and I invite you to lead them all together, because our democracy is concerned and it is all together that we must draw out its contours and provide safeguards.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u166	Mrs Josiane Corneloup has the floor. I'm sure Mr. Gosselin will be careful not to interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u167	That's not safe!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u168	I, in turn, would like to support the Ukrainian people and condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine. This is a serious situation for Ukraine, but also for the whole world. The health crisis that France has experienced is a painful episode, which questions the state in its regal mission of protecting the population. Of course, this crisis was unprecedented and far-reaching and the exercise is obviously difficult. However, the case of masks, resuscitation beds, tests and vaccines will forever be engraved in the memories as an inability of the state to react effectively, revealing in the open the structural flaws of the French health system: hospitalocentrism, bureaucratic and atomised health management, inability to anticipate and plan a policy of managing flows rather than a long-term strategy, serious dependence on abroad in the field of drugs and medical equipment. I have of course a thought for all those who lost their lives during this crisis, as well as for their families, and I am pleased that the situation is improving today. The Government's deficiencies in masks, tests and vaccination centres had to be addressed by the local authorities.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u169	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u170	It is the very functioning of our health system that must be called into question: a technocratic machine that undermines the decision-making chain and prevents their rapid application in the field. I don't know if we could have done better and faster, but I regret that too often you didn't want to hear us or listen to us. Our democracy has worked since the beginning of the crisis in degraded mode.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u171	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u172	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Parliament has been flouted or even non-existent.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u174	Month after month, we undergo a form of trivialisation of the state of emergency and the exit of this regime. Time is running out and the state of emergency is still in effect. We have seen during the crisis that our hospitals are in a situation of extreme tension, understaffed, with exhausted personnel who have been constantly reorganizing to overcome the lack of resources and the closure of many beds, which has continued throughout the epidemic – 7,000 in these two and a half years. If the setting of strategic guidelines for health care must be left to the State to ensure that all French people, wherever they may be, have the same quality of care, the logic of the system must be reversed, based on the needs of the population and trusting the local authorities, which have the vision of the field. We need to create a new balanced partnership between the state, local and regional authorities and local health professional communities around a collective health project. It is also valid within hospitals, where the burden of administrative services – which account for more than 34% of hospital staff – must be reduced, and the autonomy of doctors must be restored – which has been achieved for a time by the crisis of the covid -19, whose urgency has magically reduced procedures. In the end, it was the local authorities that palliated the faults of the state, while the technostructure established itself as a single decision-maker, based on the sole opinion of a Scientific Council often far removed from the health care staff. Frequently referred to as front-line actors in the management of the health crisis, mayors report a negative finding of their relations with the State and of the centralized organisation. The sources of dissatisfaction have been numerous and varying from one elected official to another, but a reason for dissatisfaction is widely shared: the multiple orders and contraries on the part of the State and the lack of coherence. Despite the hyper-centralised management of health policy, there has been no overall strategic vision for many years, but only an accounting vision of health, considered more as a cost than as an economically and socially profitable investment – hence the gradual disengagement of entire parts of investments that have proved crucial during this crisis, including masks, breathers and tests. I welcome the investments made in the framework of the Ségur de la santé: it is time to reinvest in public health in France. In short, the state is too heavy where it should be flexible and too weak where it should be strong. The health crisis has revealed a lack of European coordination. It was only on 13 October 2020, more than six months after the first cases of coronavirus in Europe, that the Council of the European Union adopted a recommendation on a coordinated approach to restricting free movement in response to the covid-19 pandemic. While the combined purchase of vaccines was a good idea, negotiations were not well conducted and malfunctions were accumulated: slow negotiations, particularly due to discussions on vaccine prices, delays in orders and deliveries.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u175	Anything! To be able to attack Europe on the purchase of vaccines is very strong!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u176	There is an urgent need to learn from the epidemic and to better coordinate action by Member States in the event of a new health crisis. The health crisis also revealed the importance of the care system, including its first level: hospital service staff (ASH), who are responsible for hospital hygiene. She also showed society that essential trades, mainly by women, were relegated to the lowest level of pay and qualifications. It is time that these induced skills were recognized as an indicator of wealth. The SRAs have focused on hospitals, without taking into account the social and medico-social sector, or taking into account their needs for personal protective equipment. For example, at the beginning of the crisis, home helpers, who were often the only ones involved with the elderly, did not have masks. As for the medical and social teams, they were alone, with the confinement for single recourse. The health crisis has demonstrated the ability of all staff, whether in public hospitals, private institutions, EHPADs, medical-social institutions, nursing homes or home care services. I would like to commend their courage, dedication, commitment and professionalism.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u177	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u178	They are modern heroes and they deserve our full gratitude and gratitude.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u179	Yes!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u180	If the system has held, despite the difficult conditions, it is thanks to them. Let us also focus on the difficult conditions faced by EHPAD residents during the health crisis. The latter account for about half of the deaths in France during the first wave of covid-19. The Government is far from being blameless. The shortcomings in the management of the health crisis have accumulated in institutions for the elderly, a blind spot in the management of the epidemic by the State. If you denied, Minister, any sort of access to resuscitation services, a decision to admit patients to resuscitation units and critical care units in a context of a covid -19 epidemic, published by the ARS of Île-de-France on March 19, 2020, mentions the fact that "in an exceptional context where human, therapeutic and material resources could be or become immediately limited, it is possible that long-term, over-solicited practitioners may have to make difficult choices and priorities in the emergency regarding access to resuscitation. The ban on outside visits, which was brutally decided overnight, was also a test for residents and their loved ones. These decisions, taken without consultation or consideration for the daily lives of residents, have led to slip syndrome. The Blue Plan – the institution's organizational tool for managing a crisis situation – was only declared on March 6, more than a month after detection of the first cases of covid-19 and only ten days before the first confinement. In addition to this, there is a proven lack of equipment – masks were only delivered on 22 March, overblouses and glasses were missing – which could only contribute to the spread of the virus within these establishments. The impact of the epidemic in EHPADs is very heavy. The disastrous management of end-of-life patients in these facilities has been a shock to all. The ban on families from seeing their loved ones remains a major trauma.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u181	That's right.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u182	The health crisis also had a strong impact on public finances. The emergency measures deployed in response to the covid -19 crisis, whether health expenditure or support for businesses and households, have generally met their targets but have resulted in increased public debt: €2,700 billion, or almost 150% of GDP. According to the Court of Auditors, the Government's objective of reducing the deficit below three points of GDP in 2027 cannot be achieved without expecting an annual increase of €9 billion in savings compared to the path observed between 2010 and 2019 – this is a very uncertain recovery path. [[Applause on the benches of the LR group. – Mrs Martine Wonner also applauds]] Today we live in the rule of law, but we are in a state of emergency that only extends from month to month, putting aside our individual freedoms and the great fundamental principles of our society. There is an urgent need to remove the vaccine pass and return to normal life.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u183	Mrs Fadila Khattabi has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u184	I would have liked, and all of us would have liked to have made this last intervention in another international context. Of course, all my thoughts go to the Ukrainian people. A few months ago, Minister, you said, "He thinks a calm sea has never made a good sailor. And you added: "The Minister of Health that I am has never known anything other than the storm. »
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u185	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u186	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Like you, I have experienced nothing but the storm, since I was elected head of the Social Affairs Committee in the midst of the covid crisis, almost two years ago, following the appointment to the Government of my predecessor, Mrs Brigitte Bourguignon, whose investment, of course, I welcome both in our committee and in the executive. On the contrary, this element of context, which may seem trivial, is of great importance because it highlights the conditions under which Parliament has had to respond to an unprecedented health crisis, the global scale of which has only increased the urgency of the situation. It is in this context that our House has played its full role, with monitoring work organised by all the committees, and on the front line the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Laws, of which I welcome the Chair. As a follow-up to the fact-finding mission, flash missions launched from the beginning of the crisis and then from the committee of inquiry, the Committee on Social Affairs has therefore organised dozens and dozens of hours of hearings to monitor the evolution of the health crisis. This allowed us to address a wide range of issues: first of all the many health challenges that the crisis has created, the challenges that it raises for our health system, but also the social and employment consequences that it may have created. Among the hearings that marked our meetings were, of course, those on the vaccination strategy and on the medical platforms, which played a major role, those on the situation of EHPADs, a subject of great sensitivity and topicality, or those on the place of digital health. In this context, the committee was also able to hear, on several occasions, the members of the Government, and I thank you, Minister, for being loaned to exercise whenever this proved necessary. All of this work is the result of the mobilisation of the whole of the social affairs commissioners – I say all of them – whom I would like to thank today for their continued investment, as well as the services of our committee for their unwavering commitment to us. At your last hearing, on 15 December, in the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, you alerted us, Mr Minister, to the risks of the new epidemic wave that threatened us. Today, it seems that the worst is behind us, even though we must of course remain very careful. Today, there's a way out, the one we've been waiting for so much. This is the result of a proactive health policy and above all – I want to stress this point – protective. This government and this majority were able to act with a single slogan: to protect, to protect the French. We have said this, and we have done so, through unprecedented means and massive investments, particularly in the social security finance and financing laws voted since 2020. Yes, we have protected our fellow citizens by ensuring access to care, free vaccination for all, not to mention the many social measures that have enabled thousands of people not to slip into precariousness or poverty. To those who let themselves go to caricature and instrumentalization, I would like to say the following: our country has experienced a serious and painful trial; However, thanks to the courageous and resilient efforts of the French, but also thanks to the firm and humanist will shown by the President of the Republic through the "no matter what" implemented by the Government. Yes, we made the choice of a policy that reinvests massively in public health, when others would have easily given in to austerity. The budgets deployed are colossal: 19 billion for hospitals, EHPADs, for the digital shift, but also close to 11 billion, thanks to the Ségur de la santé, for health professionals, medico-social, and now the socio-educational sector. Yes, it is this balance sheet that allows us to look at the future with a little more serenity. One last word to just say thank you, minister. You have not only been the minister of a crisis, you have been the minister of solidarity and health in this country. We owe you a lot, the French owe you a lot.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u187	I'm gonna have to interrupt you...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u188	I'm finishing, Mr. President. Contrary to what Mrs Panot said in insulting the Members we are,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u189	Madam President, I'm going to have to cut you off!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u190	[[Applause on several benches of the LaREM group and on a few benches of the Dem group]] ... we do not wax pumps: we only love to give back to Caesar what belongs to Caesar.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u191	Mrs Martine Wonner has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u192	One more big one!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u193	"Any society in which the guarantee of rights is not guaranteed, or the separation of powers determined, has no Constitution. I quote Article 16 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. But you probably forgot it. The French parliamentary system has never been so weak. The repression suffered by social movements as early as 2018, the constant submission of the legislature and the judiciary to the executive branch and the liberticide abuses validated in this House in the name of the health crisis lead me to affirm before you that there is no longer a Constitution in France.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u194	What?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u195	The right of the people to define it can no longer be flouted by this role given to Parliament and the Constitutional Council. However, in view of the extent of the powers assigned to the Council, it is essential that the institution be independent of political power, but also free from any form of pressure or influence, in order to ensure impartial control of the law. There is no statute for members of the Council comparable to the statute of judges, which guarantees independence and impartiality. If one accepts that the Constitutional Council is a jurisdiction, the comparison of the statutory obligations of its members with those of the judiciary shows a real deficit on the part of the Constitutional Council, which in fact no longer guarantees fundamental rights. Democratic and human principles have never been so disused in our country. There is an urgent need to respect the dignity of the citizen and the sovereignty of the people. You are here before the national representative to affirm once again that your government has managed for two years for the good of the French. But who can still believe...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u196	We!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u197	...your ridiculous iterative demonstrations? The results are there: psychic suffering and ill-being of citizens, precipitated for a large part of them into unprecedented precariousness; massive destruction of the health system, unequal access to care, planned disappearance of social security; economic disaster and abyssal debt, in the name of a "no matter what" instituted to control social revolt. This very deteriorated situation, with a public debt ratio and one of the highest structural deficits in Europe, was highlighted in the last report of the Court of Auditors. Everything escapes you a few weeks from the elections, and the French are not fooled by your frail promises to suspend the vaccination pass. Pretexting the good, you have confined without healing; Pretexting the good, you disfellowshiped without caring; Pretexting the good, you continue to humiliate a whole part of the citizens by depriving them of their profession, of their income, by designating them as guilty of a societal divide that you yourself have caused and that now completely escapes you.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u198	Hallucinant!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u199	The people have doubts about the transparency of contracts signed by the European Commission with the pharmaceutical industry. You let it happen; The defense secret covers everything. But today, you can no longer hide the harmful consequences of vaccination policy, as data on serious side effects explode: miscarriages, myocardites, pericardites, autoimmune diseases, Guillain-Barré syndrome, multiple cancers, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, AIDS,...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u200	AIDS?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u201	[[Exclaims on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] ...not to mention deaths, all ages being affected, even children. Never seen since Pastor! Professor Luc Montagnier had denounced him; I was at the side of the citizens to pay him a final tribute on Tuesday, at the Père-Lachaise cemetery. I would like to conclude by denouncing all forms of violence in our country, also in the name of this good that justifies so much evil: the institutional violence that legalizes oppressions since 2020 in perverse and well-oiled workings, those of successive laws under the cover of the state of health emergency; repressive violence that attempts to stifle popular, joyful and light demonstrations that, from Saturday to Saturday, see children, young adults, their parents and grandparents wander through the streets. The natural authority of the State can only result from the legitimacy of its public authorities. You traded her against the repression, which, however, would not have made more than 20 million sub-citizens bend. I would like to say congratulations to New Caledonia, which yesterday, by a vote of the Standing Committee of Congress, abrogated the vaccination obligation. [[Protests on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] I ask the question: is your government still legitimate?
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u202	Worrying!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u203	Next to the plate! We have never called into question the legitimacy of the Government, you are a witness!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u204	Mr Jean-Pierre Pont has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u205	First of all, let me give my full support to the Ukrainian people in the face of this Russian invasion. The Government, by the voice of Olivier Véran, Minister of Solidarity and Health, had committed itself before us, as part of the extension of the regime for the exit of the health crisis until 31 July 2022 voted in November 2021, to take a step forward before the end of the parliamentary session. It is therefore this democratic exercise that brings us together today. In general, when a stage arrives, there are comments on its unfolding, on the state of the situation before the next stage, and there is a winner. The state of the situation before the next stage, the Government has largely detailed it to us – for the time being, the epidemic is more under control. But the great winner of this first stage is first and foremost the French people. The vaccination policy, and more broadly the health policy put in place since the beginning of the epidemic and reinforced whenever necessary, is bearing fruit. 54 million French are vaccinated, of which 53 million have received two doses and 38 million three doses. If one adds the immunity acquired by the disease, the French are now widely protected, at least from serious forms, against covid-19. Twelve texts on the tools for managing the health crisis have been discussed, discussed and often amended by this House. When we examined the last text, for example, an amendment led us to exclude minors under the age of 16 from the vaccination pass. Many of the criticisms addressed to the Government and to the majority by the opposition are, according to their sources or political label, demagogic, childish, electoralist. I shall return to three points which have been very strongly contested. The first concerns the very nature of the health crisis exit regime. On some benches, the criticisms continued, considering that the toolbox was too loaded. To remove the tools to enable the Government to react quickly to avoid heavier constraints and, at the same time, to propose the most stringent tools such as containment and curfew, is what oppositions proposed. In the face of this demagogy of crisis, as the virus of covid-19 settled in our lives for a long time, my concern as rapporteur of the last texts of management of the health crisis was rather to ensure, throughout the debates, that the tools to combat the epidemic were stable and predictable. The priority was to preserve their adaptability and responsiveness. For this reason, we have always maintained the prefect's role in territorially delineating the health policy defined at national level. The second point concerns the date of the end of the exit regime, which leads us to meet today. In conscience, as early as November, we stopped the date of July 31, 2022, when the oppositions and the Senate proposed the end of February, that is, today. We were then confronted with the delta variant and were going to discover a few days later the appearance of the omicron variant. In the face of a virus evolving day by day and when any truth of a day became false or inappropriate the next day, what could we do? Our Minister of Health, Olivier Véran, should have been not a doctor, but rather a doctor, a medium or a cartomaniac. Finally, the third point concerns the introduction of a vaccination obligation for certain professions, as well as a health pass and its transformation into a vaccination pass. The vaccine obligation has been backed up by an already existing field of vaccine obligations. Thus, when it was necessary to find the solution to open up more widely the places of leisure while the virus was still circulating strongly and threatened by a rebound of the epidemic in the spring and summer of 2021, the health pass made it possible to respond concretely, by limiting to the maximum the restrictions of freedoms. We will be vigilant to ensure that its use ceases as soon as possible. It is therefore a pledge of rigour that has accompanied each choice for the last two years and a guarantee of consistency that, twelve times, has guided our work in this House. Twelve times when the opposition has constantly criticized itself, placing itself systematically against the course of the proposed measures, that is to say against the current reality of the crisis, whose management is now rightly welcomed by a majority of French people. [[Smile.) (Applause from the LaREM and Dem groups)]] I will add, minister, that I have never had a wax to wax your pumps.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u206	They're a little dusty!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u207	It's the field!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u208	Mr Julien Borowczyk has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u209	To evoke a crisis situation during the presidential campaign period, I will give the metaphor of Penelope – I am, of course, talking about the Hellenic Aegeia! – who had the patience and the intelligence to wait for Ulysses while he was burning all his difficult trials. This pandemic odyssey, our nation faced her, as Penelope, confident of her executive and faithful to our majority, for she knew that like Ulysses, we would return victorious of our common destiny. Nevertheless, there were many pitfalls on this epidemic sea made tumultuous by the variants, whether from viral replication or opposition to Tantalum. As chairman of the Committee of Inquiry on Coronavirus, I recall the confrontation of our majority, not with the Cyclope, but with a very monocular vision of the rapporteur trying to convince us that lives had been carried away by means of a hypothetical sorting carried out upstream of the hospitals. The sole purpose of this mithridatization was to criminalize the Government in the first place and to discredit, at the same time, all the actions of our caregivers, which was intolerable. This merciless Pythia for the doctors did not, in fact, need an oracle to produce a charge report. Our health epic then ran into the torment of Charybde and Scylla on their reefs on both sides of our Chamber. Their gentle populist and demagogic singing, even irresponsible, tried to push us to the vaccination shipwreck. But it was not. We have indeed kept our course, organizing a strategy of injections based on scientific facts and giving priority to vaccines to the most fragile audiences, thus drastically reducing the mortality of our seniors. However, if the vaccine significantly reduced the slope of hospitalizations, we had to shorten the perpetual Sisyphus test to which we had been forced since the beginning of this crisis, as it is true that the viral rock irremediably reduced the slope of our hopes. In July 2021, the executive decided to break the stone that had become unbearable by using the tool sharpened by our debates: the health pass. This announcement allowed for a sharp increase in vaccinations in the centres, until then rocked by summer torpor. Today, all the studies converge towards a conclusion without appeal: we had to obtain a complete and wide vaccination in order to face the different variants. This protective base has allowed us to maintain the opening of all public places and to protect the economy estimated at €6 billion a week. However, much more than euros, the pass proved that it saved lives, with 32,000 deaths avoided, and that it limited hospitalizations, especially in critical care. For example, an unvaccinated person is 15.8 times more likely to enter critical care than a fully immunized person with a booster. This figure of 15.8 must be highlighted to understand its importance: in this Chamber, for example, there are exactly 15.8 times as many LaREM Members as FI. And since Greece, famous for its tragedies, is also famous for its alphabet, we have had to face in a row the delta variants, then omicron. The latter, particularly contagious, required the acceleration of the vaccination process and the combination of a booster dose to obtain optimal protection. The urgency of the situation required the use, again, of a tool validated by Parliament: the vaccination pass, the aim of which was to prepare our country for a possible viral resurgence, to prevent unvaccinated people from visiting places at high risk of contamination and to accompany our fellow citizens towards a complete and protective vaccination. For example, the number of first injections increased by 15% in January 2022. [[Smile on a few benches of the LaREM group. – Exclaims on the benches of the LR group]] Finally, after fully adopting the concept of the pass, the French responded to the appeal of the President of the Republic by anticipating their booster doses even before the introduction of the vaccination pass. Moreover, within certain political groups, the booster dose also preceded the advent of the vaccination pass, as evidenced by the observation of the polls of the Republicans group: first dose of 44% for the pass, second dose of 62% and recall dose of 81% for final reading. Today it seems that the epilogue of this odyssey is approaching.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u210	It's on a high level!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u211	Thank you, Mr. Gosselin. Like Ulysses, our majority was the only one who knew how to tape its legislative and democratic arch in order to succeed in crossing the various axe irons that were the consecutive waves. After this final ordeal, our nation, like Penelope, permanently removes its many suitors, to whom it has never given in during this crisis, proof that the courageous, responsible and wise decisions we have taken for more than two years have built a bond of trust and unprecedented participation with our fellow citizens, far beyond the political vindiction of electoralism or the reproach of conspiracy. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM group]] In the face of the virus, and for the benefit of growth, freedom and life, our majority will never have gone away in this long fight, for as Homer says, "from the fight, only cowards depart."
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u212	Mrs Michèle Peyron has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u213	This morning we are debating the development of the health situation in our country. This beginning of the year was still particularly difficult for the French. As the situation seems to be getting better, I would like once again to greet all the healthcare staff, pharmacists and hospital staff. Our State has been protective in limiting the negative effects of this major crisis. We have increased health insurance spending massively so that our "test, alert and protect" strategy is the most effective, no matter what the cost. After the massive deployment of the tests, we allowed them to be fully supported. For testing alone, expenditure was EUR 2.6 billion for 2020 and EUR 6.9 billion for 2021. The State has also taken care of work stoppages related to isolation and child care measures, so as not to penalize our businesses. The Government had carried out a major vaccination campaign, since the vaccine was the only weapon to combat the pandemic. This immunisation campaign, which is still running, amounted to €6.3 billion in expenditure in 2021. The health crisis also highlighted a critical situation for health professionals and the hospital. The Government has therefore carried out substantial structural reforms through the Segur de la Santé, a major consultation with professionals, which has enabled historical progress to be made in response to the concrete demands of the latter. For example, salary increases amount to EUR 9 billion. For example, since the beginning of their careers, nurses have seen their salary increase by 290 euros net per month. The Ségur de la santé has not only allowed a salary increase:...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u214	He created inequalities!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u215	... we are investing €19 billion to renovate our health care system. Health was not the only issue at the heart of our actions: the Government has deployed unprecedented mobilization in response to the economic and social emergency. We have set up solidarity fund aid to help businesses, the self-employed and all entrepreneurs affected by the crisis, payment deadlines and exemptions from social and fiscal deadlines, as well as a reduction in the rent burden for the premises needed to carry out professional activities. The major measure was the maintenance of employment through the partial activity scheme, which amounted to €27 billion in 2020 alone. This was essential to maintain employment. We have also taken measures to limit the loss of household income and to support those who have had to cope with additional expenses, with an increase of EUR 100 per child in the school start-up allowance, exceptional solidarity aid of EUR 150 plus EUR 100 per child, exceptional assistance of EUR 200 to all young people under 25 who are beneficiaries of the LPA, personalized housing assistance, or to students who have lost their jobs or internships as a result of the crisis. Finally, we must welcome the €100 billion France Recovery Plan, which is structured around three main objectives: to anchor the ecological transition in the territories, to reindustrialise France and to develop the cohesion of the territories. Here too, the Government intervenes as closely as possible to our territories. In which other countries has the State guaranteed and maintained employment as much through the financing of partial activity? So much supported by tax-due exemptions and a solidarity fund? So much accompanied by households through this crisis and limited their income losses? Our unemployment rate has been lowest since 2008. This dynamic particularly affects young people aged 15 to 24, thanks to the plan "1 young person, 1 solution". France's growth reached 7% in 2021, which represents one of the largest GDP gains in the euro area: in comparison, Germany saw its GDP increase by only 2.7%. [[Applause on several benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We have made the choice of spending and investment to protect and revive our country. The results are here. We can't look away.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u216	Mr Guillaume Gouffier-Cha has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u217	First of all, on behalf of the People's Republic on the move, I would like to reaffirm our full support for the Ukrainian people at this difficult time, with a special thought for the inhabitants of Brovary, a commune twinned with the city of Fontenay-sous-Bois, in the constituency of which I am elected. Ladies and gentlemen, do you remember when you heard about this virus? For my part, I remember it perfectly: it was a Saturday of the end of January 2020. I was watching a report about the situation in China, about the virus we didn't know much about then, and about the country's decision to confine several major cities entirely. I remember turning off my television set, icy by the images I had just seen; but certain that such a situation, so far, could not reach us. The rest of the story, we know it: this terrible virus was going to spread all over the world. Everywhere the same reality: many people die without any cure, masks or vaccines, our hospitals are submerged and the situation is becoming dramatic in our retirement homes. Many families find themselves bereaved and our country, like all others, begins to mourn its missing people in the face of a disease that terrorizes us by its consequences and its shadows. In this global anxiety pandemic climate, all of our caregivers are mobilized. They are at the front, they don't count their hours, they take risks, at the cost of their lives, to save as many lives as possible. Their courage and sense of duty honour them. We all know what we owe them. Every night, we acclaimed them at our windows. Today and tomorrow, we must not forget them. I would also like to pay tribute to all those who then occupy positions in which we are directly confronted with the risk of contamination: our law enforcement and security forces, our firefighters, our cleaners and our mouth traders, as well as our associative activists who work in solidarity associations. We must not forget the moments of ederation that we experienced then. Faced with adversity, we have had to make urgent and radical decisions to protect the health of the French and to curb the epidemic as much as possible. On 16 March 2020, the President of the Republic announced the first confinement of our country as a whole and in the wake of that, we created, in a spirit of harmony, a legal framework enabling the Government to equip itself with the tools necessary to manage the crisis we were facing: the state of emergency health regime. This health crisis is still a reality. It has demanded on our part an ability to adapt and act. To this end, we have always pursued a threefold objective: to protect the health of the French, to protect our economy in order to ensure its recovery in due course, to guarantee the continuity of the functioning of our institutions and of our democracy. We have always taken our decisions with responsibility and courage in this House, where we have had to legislate 12 times on the various legal frameworks and tools for dealing with this health crisis. These decisions, perhaps for a long time we will question their merits, but we will always accept them. The various measures put in place have enabled us to save tens of thousands of lives by significantly curbing the epidemic through containment, first, and then the vaccination campaign, which is a great success in our country. They have also enabled us to protect our businesses and employees through, among other things, state-guaranteed loans, the solidarity fund and partial unemployment. They have also enabled us to keep schools open for almost all of this crisis and to return to social life as soon as possible. We have always taken these steps by working to build the future through the recovery plan and investment in our social model, especially with the Ségur de la santé. At times we have groped, sometimes even, perhaps, we have been wrong – we owe it to the French to have the humility to recognize it – but it is also true that from the beginning we have always acted to protect their health and to allow life to continue. From this crisis, when it is behind us, which unfortunately is not yet the case, we will have to learn all the lessons. We will need to have a sustainable health crisis management regime in order never to relive the fear of the beginnings and the surprise effect of a new disease. Yesterday, we didn't know; Today, we are warned. It is important to continue to invest heavily in the modernization of our hospital system and to upgrade the careers of so-called essential professions, which are all too often undervalued. It is also up to us to learn all the lessons from the relentless attacks on our institutions and our democratic model by extremist and conspiracy movements – attacks that we will never stop condemning and fighting, but that we must also understand in order to better protect our society. [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Since the beginning of this health crisis, the presidential majority has never been lacking: it has been able to assume its responsibilities, just like the French and French. In conclusion, I think it is to our fellow citizens. They have been exemplary in this ordeal and I would like to commend their commitment and their ability to remain united throughout this period. Together, we have stood together and together, we must now prepare for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u218	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u219	It may seem strange to take stock of the health crisis when it is not over, but the end of the legislature allows us to do so.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u220	That's right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u221	I do not want to give the feeling to the French who would look at us that concluding these parliamentary debates today would end the epidemic crisis, even though we are still wearing masks inside, that the vaccination pass is in force and that there are still many people in hospital and resuscitation. Having said that, I think it is fundamental to be able to learn lessons and lessons from such a crisis. That is what the members of my ministry's administrations are doing, and I would like to commend them once again for their determined action at both the central and the territorial levels. They have held for two years, changed their schedules, changed their habits, changed their way of working, and proved able to cope with the unthinkable, with great courage, bravery and tenacity. There will of course be some conclusions to draw from this, and I will have to make proposals in terms of reorganizing the health landscape. Another priority will be to preserve the added value of the experience gained by those who have fought against this virus over the past two years. It will be a matter of not losing the acquired know-how. This is called the "retex": if a new crisis were to occur, we will have to be able to show reactivity. I'm not going to get into polemics and outrages.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u223	It is more than five hundred hours that I spent in Parliament, between your house and the Senate, to discuss the health crisis, which is more time than I have ever spent in this House during my two consecutive term as a Member of Parliament – and I find that normal. We will have to come back to the role of Parliament and the relationship between the executive and the legislator.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u224	I agree with you on this point, Minister.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u225	Of course, Mr. Gosselin, I know we're joining on that. And I say again very quietly, together we will have to draw conclusions about the role that Parliament played and the relations it had with the Government during the crisis that we experienced.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u226	More than imperfect!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u227	Perhaps more than imperfect, Congressman. And I think that as with any balance sheet, it will also be interesting to re-examine yourself. As you can see, I have retained what the Chair of the Law Commission has said. Everyone is free to keep the memory he wants. For my part, I will keep Parliament's very strong image that it sent back in the first confinement: that of national unity in the face of urgency. This was fundamental for the French, who did not understand what was happening, who were assailed by fear. Seeing the members of the national representation, accustomed to scaring themselves on all the subjects of everyday life, being able to applause standing a decision that was necessary...
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u228	We did not dispute it, indeed!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u229	... will undoubtedly have strengthened them. If we want to convince ourselves of the validity or otherwise of the decisions we have taken in our country, we need to open up our chakras a little and look beyond our borders. I do not know a country that has not used curfew, containment, sanitary passage, intensive vaccination, barrier gestures, hydro-alcoholic gel hand washing. Whether they are right-wing or left-wing governments, powerfully centralized states or federal states, they have all used them. The only difference was the temporality in which these measures were taken. On several occasions, parliamentarians have cited a country that did not act like us, and a few days later the same country has to take similar decisions. The best example is the case in Absurdistan when, after having been forced to distinguish between essential and non-essential products, we decided, in order not to distort competition between small and large businesses, to ask them to make certain shelves inaccessible. What criticism have we not heard, both in this chamber and abroad? And what happened to our neighbors who pointed at us a few days earlier? Some shelving has been made inaccessible to consumers. Why? Because there was no other solution, in any case no better solution possible at that time. We all make mistakes and learn. We all have our convictions and our certainty.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u230	All right!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u231	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] We all act with the powerful principle of the general interest that led us, one day, to present ourselves before the voters, considering that we were able to serve them. Whatever our views and ways of expressing them, I believe that we will all have lived up to the commitment we made when we went to the French. [[Same movements]] We do not all agree, but we must respect each other. I am a member of the executive, Mr President, and I am no longer a member of Parliament, but I feel powerfully insulted when I hear some say that Members are shouting at ministers' pomps or that they are not up to their commitments because they disagree on the substance. Disagreements must in no way prevent respect. [[Applause on a few benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] [[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and LR groups]] The outrageous trials on the breakdown of the rule of law and on unconstitutionality and conspiracy on the vaccine that would give AIDS or Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease have no place in the Chamber. I do not forget, of course, that parliamentarians are here to represent the diversity of opinions expressed in the French population. It is even the very nature of democracy that no representative of the people is prevented from speaking, but it is sometimes necessary to re-establish scientific facts. Here I want to reassure those who look at us and the public present in the stands, especially the younger ones: the vaccine has never given and will never give AIDS or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease! [["Very good! On the benches of the Dem group. – Applause on the benches of the LaREM and Dem groups]] Everyone here is covered, and this is quite normal, by what is called parliamentary immunity and can speak freely knowing that his or her remarks cannot be called into question before the courts. However, warrants come to an end one day and those who will continue to make certain statements may be held accountable to the courts. I'm saying it for Mrs. Wonner. I don't know if we'll have to draft a 13th or 14th Health Emergency Bill – I obviously don't want to, either. The electoral period makes any search for consensus impossible, but it would be good, once it has passed, and I turn to the Chair of the Law Committee and to the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, with whom we discuss this very much, to think about how we could change our ways of working individually, but also collectively, in the relations between the Government and Parliament. Perhaps the five hundred hours we spent listening to each other – and again, more or less, as in this morning's debate, held under Rule 50-1, with its successive monologues for three hours – could have been used differently. Everyone with our skills, our experiences, our ideas and our willingness to serve the general interest, we could try to refine certain things. I am telling you, I have regretted that during the very long debates we have had, we have spent more time discussing Parliament's place in the legislative process than the content of the texts itself. However, when we were able to get into the depth of the articles and the details of the amendments, we saw very well how fair some of the parliamentary proposals were. It has often been the case that Parliament is right to want to amend the bills introduced by the Government.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u232	Ah!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u233	That's why a re-visit clause was needed, Minister!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u234	[[Applause on the benches of the LaREM, Dem and Agir ens groups]] I am convinced that we can find the way to cooperative work, at least in the moments as intense as those which the French have had to face for two years, those who have shown a resilience that forces everyone's admiration, and in particular mine as a minister. On many occasions, some may have considered that the braking measures would not be supported by the population or not understood, many times, some have tried to put oil on the fire, but the French have always been on the rendezvous. It's an unappealable finding. Since we are both representatives of the French, it is up to us to live up to the courage they have shown.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u235	Mrs Wonner, before giving you the floor for a point of order, I would like to point out to the young people in our House that democracy in our country is living fully: even after a minister has spoken, a Member can make his arguments.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u236	[[Rites and exclamations on several benches]] [[Same movements]] I was personally questioned by the minister. He insulted and threatened me, pretending that my warrant would stop and that I could end up in court. Should I remind him that the first mission of parliamentarians is to evaluate and monitor the action of the Government? Unfortunately, for the past two years, I have been the only one here to denounce the way in which the Government is making a mistake.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u237	But yes, you're right on your own!
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u238	The pathologies caused by vaccination, I'm not the one who invents them. The data are available on the French site of the National Agency for the Safety of Drugs and Health Products (ANSM) or on the American site that you seemed not to know the last time I mentioned it here, Minister – I mean the VAERS, the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u239	Mrs Wonner, as part of a point of order, it is not possible to relaunch the debate. We have taken note of the fact that you felt that you had been personally questioned by the Minister. I will leave it to the Conference of Presidents to decide on this.
ParlaMint-FR_2022-02-24-O1164.u240	Next meeting, this afternoon, at 3 p.m.: Discussion, in final reading, of the proposal for a law to democratise sport in France; Final reading of the proposal for a law to combat school harassment; Final reading of the proposal for a law on the choice of name derived from filiation. The meeting is adjourned.
