ParlaMint-BA_2017-02-16-0.u16373	Dear ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 42nd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives and distinguished guests at the session were invited by our regular guests: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who regularly follow the work of our House, media representatives. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. At today's session, the missing persons were justified by the distinguished representative Miroslav Milovanović and MP Diana Zelenika, and the delay was announced according to what the services recorded, so I am talking about what the services recorded, Staša Košarac and Salko Sokolović. BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Denis Zvizdić, Foreign Minister Igor Crnadak and Deputy Foreign Minister Josip Brkić delivered a notice on the inability to attend the session. BiH Finance and Treasury Minister Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda is also unable to attend the session, and Mr. Mirsad Žuga Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH will be present on behalf of the ministry. BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Mrs. Semiha Borovac announced her absence, and Mr. Predrag Jović, the deputy minister, will be present on behalf of the ministry. According to the Service, 26 MPs attend the session, of the 26 MPs, 25 are from the Federation of BiH entity and 1 representative from Republika Srpska entity. I find the session has a quorum, so the question is how to decide. I find, therefore, that the session of 14 representatives from Republika Srpska's entities is attended by only one representative. My Koleginica Krišto and I have held a consultation and decided to take a break of an hour and convene a session of the Extended College of the Parliamentary House of BiH for the sake of this situation. I invite you here to the O.R., club president. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Extended College has been sitting in this session and has decided to postpone today's House of Representatives session and continue on 7 March 2017 at 10:00 p.m. So, when the session with the agenda described in the 2 calls for today's session is scheduled to be held, it is complemented by all the points that have until then been discussed at the House of Representatives session. Thank you, I'll see you at the 7th of March session. Session aborted at 11:07 p.m.
